

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 70 (Tuesday, April 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 70 (Tuesday, April 25, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2842]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           AUTISM SPEAKS OUT

  (Mr. LaMALFA asked and was given permission to address the House for 
1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. LaMALFA. Mr. Speaker, I rise tonight to recognize the beginning 
of World Autism Month. I am wearing this blue pin to raise awareness 
for those impacted by autism around the country.
  There are over 70 million people with autism worldwide, with more 
children diagnosed each year than with AIDS, diabetes, and cancer 
combined. This disease impairs the ability for folks to communicate and 
socialize. This April, it is my goal to join forces with my House 
colleagues to recognize what has become the fastest growing serious 
developmental disorder in the United States, one that early 
intervention can greatly help.
  On average, having a child with autism costs a family $60,000 per 
year, an expense that many families cannot afford but are left with no 
choice. School-based services provide vital education and developmental 
tools for children with autism, but what happens when the schooldays 
are over? Once a child with autism reaches the age of 18, many families 
face a services cliff. They are no longer able to access the care they 
need.
  As we work to reform health care in this 115th Congress, we must 
ensure that individuals have access to the affordable treatment they 
need and improve the outcomes for youth who are transitioning out of 
the school system as well. Go to autismspeaks.org, and let's deal with 
and work for quality of life improvements for these folks. I urge my 
House and Senate colleagues to do the same.

                          ____________________



