

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 107 (Thursday, June 22, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 107 (Thursday, June 22, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H5058]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 SUPPORT CAREER AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION

  (Mr. YOUNG of Alaska asked and was given permission to address the 
House for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. YOUNG of Alaska. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak on behalf of 
the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century 
Act, legislation set to pass today to reauthorize and improve upon the 
Carl Perkins--a Member of this House in the past--Career and Technical 
Education program.
  As a former teacher, it is my firm belief that school is not just and 
cannot be one size fits all. The Carl Perkins funding has allowed 
school districts and school boards from across the country to develop 
innovative programs to educate our Nation's youth.
  I have always supported alternative forms of education. Education not 
only trains the mind, but trains our Nation's youth with valuable 
skills to succeed outside the classroom and in the workforce.
  Many students in my State and across the Nation rely on 
nontraditional opportunities to achieve success, and Carl Perkins 
grants have done the job of providing additional opportunities for our 
youth.
  In my State, these programs have led the way to providing our 
workforce with valuable certificates and credentials in Alaska's many 
industries. They include: qualification for Alaska's maritime and 
transportation industry; certifications in welding and carpentry; pre-
apprenticeships for electricians, heavy equipment operators, and 
ironworkers; medical certifications, such as EMTs and certified nursing 
aides; certification of OSHA and HAZMAT agencies; and culinary arts and 
building maintenance repair.
  These are all programs, Mr. Speaker, that help the working person and 
the young person to become prepared--just not going to college. They 
can become someone that can contribute to the good of our State and our 
Nation.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge the passage of this legislation. I proudly stand 
here to support H.R. 2353.

                          ____________________



