

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 111 (Wednesday, June 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 111 (Wednesday, June 28, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H5241]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  WELCOMING REVEREND DR. HOWARD SIPLIN

  The SPEAKER. Without objection, the gentlewoman from Florida (Ms. 
Wilson) is recognized for 1 minute.
  There was no objection.
  Ms. WILSON of Florida. Mr. Speaker, today I rise to welcome the 
esteemed Reverend Dr. Howard Siplin to the House floor as our guest 
chaplain.
  Reverend Dr. Siplin was my classmate from first grade to twelfth 
grade in Miami-Dade County Public Schools.
  Reverend Siplin is the senior pastor of Beulah Missionary Baptist 
Church located in Coconut Grove, Florida.
  Before joining the ministry, Reverend Siplin proudly served in law 
enforcement. He is a graduate of the Miami-Dade Police Academy who made 
history by earning the distinction of becoming the first African 
American to serve as president of the Fraternal Order of Police.
  Three years ago, after joining Beulah Missionary Baptist Church, 
Reverend Siplin was ordained a deacon and later became chairman of the 
church's deacon ministry.
  He was called to preach in the year 2000 and, in August 2003, was 
ordained and installed to serve as the church's pastor. Under his 
leadership, Beulah Missionary Baptist has helped the surrounding 
community confront and combat various challenges. He also has used his 
experience in law enforcement to help forge and strengthen bonds 
between residents and local police.

  Reverend Siplin has dedicated himself to educating members of the 
Beulah Missionary Baptist Church community to live spiritual lives so 
that they can be productive citizens.
  He holds a bachelor's and master's of ministry degree from the 
Jacksonville Baptist Theological Seminary. In 2014, the seminary 
awarded him an honorary doctorate degree.
  Reverend Siplin is married to the former Zelma Ferguson who is with 
him here today. Her father, the late Reverend E. R. Ferguson, founded 
Beulah Missionary Baptist Church in 1954. They are the proud parents of 
4 children, 11 grandchildren, and 2 great-grandchildren.
  Mr. Speaker, I ask everyone to join me in thanking Reverend Siplin 
for leading today's opening prayer and to thank him for his outstanding 
service to the south Florida community.

                          ____________________



