

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 126 (Wednesday, July 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 126 (Wednesday, July 26, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H6304-H6305]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   HONORING HENRY O. LINEBERGER, JR.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
North Carolina (Mr. Holding) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. HOLDING. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor and recognize the 
life of Dr. Henry O. Lineberger, Jr.
  Henry was born in Raleigh, North Carolina, on January 5, 1927. He 
graduated from Broughton High School in 1944, as president of his 
senior class. From there, he went on to the U.S. Naval Academy, where 
he served as part of the Medical Corps during World War II.
  Mr. Speaker, after the war, Henry enrolled at Duke University, where 
he met his wife, Betty Rushing. After they were married in 1950, they 
moved to Chapel Hill, where Henry studied at the University of North 
Carolina School of Dentistry as part of that dentistry school's 
inaugural class.
  Following school, Henry and Betty moved to Raleigh in 1954, where he 
opened his first dental practice.
  Mr. Speaker, Henry Lineberger practiced dentistry in Raleigh for more 
than 50 years, and during that time, he served on numerous dental 
boards, including the North Carolina Board of Dental Examiners, and he 
was known by his patients as being available day or night.
  Henry was an active member of the Edenton Street United Methodist 
Church, where he enjoyed teaching Sunday school and gathering for 
fellowship. In fact, Mr. Speaker, Henry's Christian faith was the 
foundation of his life, and he spent a number of years immersed in 
Bible study.
  Henry shared his love for Duke football and basketball with his 
children and his grandchildren. His grandchildren, by the way, Mr. 
Speaker, like to call Dr. Lineberger ``Pinky.'' But despite his best 
efforts to turn them into Duke fans, they all attended the University 
of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
  Sadly, Mr. Speaker, Henry Lineberger passed away on July 11. He

[[Page H6305]]

is remembered by his family as a caring husband, father, and 
grandfather, and he will be deeply missed by his community that he 
helped build.

                          ____________________



