

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 115 (Monday, July 10, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 115 (Monday, July 10, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3883]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

               225TH ANNIVERSARY OF PATERSON, NEW JERSEY

 Mr. BOOKER. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize the city 
of Paterson's 225th anniversary. Through the dedicated service of 
municipal employees, elected leaders, local volunteers, community 
activists, and, most importantly, the incredible residents who have 
supported and loved the city through many generations, the city of 
Paterson has grown and prospered, earning its reputation as an 
outstanding community in my home State.
  The town of Paterson was officially established in 1792 through a 
charter signed by then-Governor of New Jersey, William Paterson. 
Paterson was one of the Nation's first planned industrial cities, a 
brainchild of one of our Founding Fathers, Alexander Hamilton, and the 
Society for Establishing Useful Manufacturers.
  Because of Paterson's proximity to what was then called the Great 
Falls of the Passaic River, the city was at the forefront of the 
development of water power systems for industrial use. In fact, the 
energy harnessed from the Great Falls was crucial in the effort to 
establish industrial freedom from Britain. Today the Paterson Great 
Falls, a scenic and historic waterfall on the Passaic River, continues 
to be just as important to the city as it was when Paterson was first 
founded.
  As a regional industrial epicenter, Paterson became the birthplace of 
many ``invention firsts,'' including the first steam and electric-
powered model trains. After milling steel for the Union effort in the 
American Civil War, Paterson refocused to become the center of our 
Nation's silk industry, thus earning its nickname the ``Silk City.'' 
The city also played a vital role during our Nation's Second World War, 
serving as a hub for the aircraft engine manufacturing industry.
  Paterson Great Falls National Historical Park served as the primary 
inspiration for William Carlos Williams' five-volume epic poem, 
Paterson. In 1950, Williams received the first National Book Award for 
Poetry for Paterson, Book III. Our beloved Silk City has weaved its way 
into the works of many other renowned American writers including Junot 
Diaz, John Updike, Jack Kerouac, and Allen Ginsberg.
  In addition to literature, Paterson natives have served as esteemed 
representatives in these hallowed halls. I would be remiss if I 
recognized the city of Paterson without mentioning the contributions of 
two of its favorite sons, Congressman Bill Pascrell, Jr., and the late 
Senator Frank Lautenberg, who have served New Jersey and our country 
with honor and distinction.
  From Downtown Paterson's commercial historic district, to our 
national historical park, to Larry Doby Field, the architectural, 
natural, and cultural landmarks are abundant across this great city. 
Paterson is among our most diverse communities, attracting residents 
from dozens of different cultures who have greatly enriched the 
abundant tapestry of diversity and pluralism in the city of Paterson 
and across the entire State of New Jersey. I am delighted to have the 
opportunity to stand before you today to celebrate the profound history 
and legacy of New Jersey's third-largest city. I invite my colleagues 
to join me in congratulating the city of Paterson on this important 
milestone, sending our warmest greetings as it celebrates its 
incredible history and extending our best wishes as it looks toward the 
future.

                          ____________________



