

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 116 (Tuesday, July 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 116 (Tuesday, July 11, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H5393]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        HONORING FRANKLIN HOBSON

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
North Carolina (Ms. Foxx) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, today I rise to honor Franklin Hobson for 60 
years of service in the Fall Creek Volunteer Fire Department in Yadkin 
County.
  Franklin was a young man of 21 when he became a charter member of the 
fire department in 1957. Since that time, he has been a dedicated 
leader in both the department and his community, including service as 
the Yadkin County fire marshal. Still active in the Fall Creek 
Volunteer Fire Department today, he will celebrate his 82nd birthday on 
September 27.
  It is volunteers like Franklin Hobson who help our Nation thrive. 
Through the generous example he has set, Franklin inspires others to 
think about ways they can give to their local community.
  I thank Franklin for all of the good that he does for his community 
and for being a great example for all of us.


  Recognizing Fall Creek Volunteer Fire Department's 60th Anniversary

  Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, today I rise to recognize the 60th anniversary 
of the Fall Creek Volunteer Fire Department in Yadkin County.
  The first meeting of these dedicated citizens was held on June 13, 
1957, at Fall Creek Elementary School as 12 local men worked to 
establish the fire department. Its charter calls for 60 members, and 
its membership ranks have remained nearly full for 60 years. A pillar 
of the community, members have been awarded North Carolina's Order of 
the Long Leaf Pine on three occasions.
  Helping others is one of the most honorable activities anyone can 
engage in, and this kind of selfless dedication to one's community is 
critical to the well-being of our country.
  I thank the members of the Fall Creek Volunteer Fire Department for 
the selflessness and bravery they demonstrate as firefighters. America 
needs more courageous individuals like them to give of their time and 
talents to keep our communities safe.

                          ____________________



