

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 100 (Tuesday, June 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 100 (Tuesday, June 13, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4865]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 WELCOMING REVEREND M. DAVIES KIRKLAND



 =========================== NOTE =========================== 

  
  June 13, 2017, on page H4865, the following appeared: WELCOMING 
M. DAVIES KIRKLAND
  
  The online version has been corrected to read: WELCOMING 
REVEREND M. DAVIES KIRKLAND


 ========================= END NOTE ========================= 

  The SPEAKER. Without objection, the gentleman from Virginia (Mr. 
Beyer) is recognized for 1 minute.
  There was no objection.
  Mr. BEYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor Pastor Dave Kirkland, 
who led us in the opening prayer. Pastor Kirkland is appointed as the 
pastor of Dulin United Methodist Church in Falls Church, Virginia, 
where he has been the pastor for the last 17 years.
  Previously, he was appointed to Del Ray United Methodist Church in 
Alexandria, Virginia, for 6 years and associate pastor at Asbury United 
Methodist Church in Harrisonburg, Virginia, for 4 years.
  Dave's passion in ministry is related to the great Commandment: to 
love God with all your heart, soul, and mind, and to love your neighbor 
as yourself.
  This is articulated in preaching, raising money, and good deeds 
performed by the congregation through reaching out to the lost and the 
least.
  A highlight of this ministry of hope at Dulin: over 60 homeless 
persons each Sunday morning are served a breakfast, attend a worship 
service, and are given toiletries and assistance cards to purchase 
items at Giant Food.
  Dulin is engaged in several local ministries, such as Homeless 
Shelter, Homestretch, Rebuilding Together, and Meals on Wheels; and he 
also supports a child rescue center in Sierra Leone.
  Mr. Speaker, I am honored to welcome Pastor Dave today to the House 
of Representatives, and I personally thank him for offering the opening 
prayer.

                          ____________________



