

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 97 (Wednesday, June 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 97 (Wednesday, June 7, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H4658-H4659]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          THE BATTLE OF MIDWAY

  (Mr. DUNCAN of Tennessee asked and was given permission to address 
the House for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. DUNCAN of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, the Chaplain mentioned, in his 
prayer a few minutes ago, D-day. I rise today, Mr. Speaker, to honor 
the brave Americans who fought the most influential naval battle of 
World War II: the Battle of Midway.
  This week marks 75 years since U.S. forces defeated the Japanese 
Imperial Navy, forever changing the course of history. Victory in this 
battle allowed the United States and its allies to go on offense for 
the duration of the war. This was a real turning point in World War II.
  The Japanese came to the battle from June 4 to June 7, 1942, with the 
largest armada they had ever assembled and the intention to finally 
defeat

[[Page H4659]]

U.S. Naval forces in the Pacific. An American intelligence breakthrough 
cracked the Japanese fleet codes, allowing us to anticipate and to 
prepare for this attack.
  With our mere three carriers to their many carriers, battleships, and 
cruisers, the odds of victory were not in our favor, a true underdog 
story. The land-based air supports that Midway Island allowed and our 
naval officers' uncanny ability to adapt and think on their feet led to 
our success and kept our country safe from the Axis powers.
  I was very pleased to work with the late Senator Jesse Helms and the 
International Midway Memorial Foundation to pass legislation declaring 
Midway Island a national memorial so that it may be protected and 
forever serve to honor the American lives lost in the pursuit of 
victory in this war.

                          ____________________



