

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 124 (Monday, July 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 124 (Monday, July 24, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H6201]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                HONORING EUGENE WING OF FAIRFIELD, MAINE

  (Mr. POLIQUIN asked and was given permission to address the House for 
1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. POLIQUIN. Mr. Speaker, throughout America's 241-year history, 
millions of brave men and women have fought for our freedom, and we are 
grateful for their service.
  Sometimes, Mr. Speaker, we find an American hero who worked behind 
the scenes to keep us free. Eugene Wing of Fairfield, Maine, in central 
Maine, is one of these heroes.
  Gene was a gifted student who graduated from Bowdoin College in 1905 
and then studied economics at Oxford University in England. He was then 
hired, Mr. Speaker, by The International Banking Corporation and sent 
to the Philippines, where he became an expert on the trade of natural 
resources in the Far East.
  At the start, Mr. Speaker, of World War I and, later, World War II, 
the Army Intelligence Service asked Gene to help defeat the enemy and 
save the world. Mr. Wing took extraordinary risks to locate and help 
control the flow of coal, oil, gold, silver, and iron ore which were 
desperately needed by the enemy's war machine. His daring spirit and 
extraordinary knowledge of these raw materials gave America and our 
Allies the upper hand to win both World Wars. Mr. Wing's unusual skill 
made him a target of our enemies, and he was eventually captured and 
put to death.
  Mr. Speaker, Eugene Wing from Fairfield, Maine, is a true American 
hero. Millions of people around the world who live in freedom today are 
the beneficiaries of his sacrifice, his bravery, and his patriotism. We 
are grateful for Mr. Wing, and we will never forget.

                          ____________________



