

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 118 (Thursday, July 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 118 (Thursday, July 13, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H5765]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  RECOGNIZING MONROE COUNTY, MICHIGAN

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Michigan (Mr. Walberg) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in recognition of Monroe 
County, Michigan's bicentennial celebration.
  Founded on July 14, 1817, Monroe County is the second oldest county 
in Michigan and is named in honor of our Nation's fifth President, 
James Monroe.
  Home to the River Raisin National Battlefield Park, Monroe County 
takes great pride in preserving local history and telling the story of 
the War of 1812 and those who fought to secure our freedoms.

                              {time}  1015

  Monroe County is blessed with many precious natural resources, 
wildlife, and outdoor areas for the community to enjoy. Whether it is 
fishing for walleye on Lake Erie or watching waterfowl in the unique 
coastal marshes, the outdoor opportunities are the finest in the 
Nation.
  Serving as an important transportation hub, Monroe County features 
the largest highway gateway into Michigan and the State's only 
international port on Lake Erie.
  Monroe County is also known for its rich agricultural heritage, as 
well as its strong manufacturing presence, including the headquarters 
of furniture manufacturer La-Z-Boy.
  Mr. Speaker, I wish to extend my gratitude to the many citizens and 
organizations that comprise the Monroe County Bicentennial Alliance. 
They generously gave of their time to coordinate a number of special 
programs and events throughout the year. It is an honor to join with 
them to commemorate this exciting milestone for Monroe County, a place 
where the community proudly comes together to make it a special place 
to visit and call home.
  Congratulations, Monroe County, on 200 years. I look forward to 
celebrating it with you.

                          ____________________



