

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 111 (Wednesday, June 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 111 (Wednesday, June 28, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H5287-H5288]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




RECOGNIZING THE CENTRAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE BLIND AND VISUALLY IMPAIRED

  (Ms. TENNEY asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend her remarks.)

[[Page H5288]]

  

  Ms. TENNEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the Central 
Association for the Blind and Visually Impaired.
  Established in Utica in 1929, CABVI, as it is known, provides a wide 
range of opportunities for the blind and visually impaired, helping 
them to acquire job skills and training, good wages and benefits, and a 
greater independence and quality of life.
  In their important mission, CABVI employs a segment of our population 
that experiences among the highest levels of unemployment in the 
country.
  CABVI also provides vital health and rehabilitation services for 
people experiencing vision loss. Their resources and services have 
improved the quality of life for many in our region, including my late 
father who spent the last 7 years of his life legally blind and 
confined to a wheelchair. My family is forever grateful to them for 
their care and kindness.
  Today I was honored to welcome to Washington my good friend Rudy 
D'Amico, president and CEO of CABVI; Robert Porter, public policy 
director; and Leta Laukitis, executive assistant. Joining them from the 
southern tier, colleague Ken Fernald, CEO of the Association for Visual 
Rehabilitation and Employment in Binghamton, New York. All joined by 
Jennifer Small, chief operating officer; John Ellzey, assistive 
technology instructor; Katie Lawson, switchboard operator; and 
Chervelle Amaker, purchasing agent and buyer.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank them for their important work and their 
continued dedication to our community. I look forward to continuing to 
advocate for them throughout my time in Congress.

                          ____________________



