

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 70 (Tuesday, April 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 70 (Tuesday, April 25, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2838]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




   WELCOMING THE HONORABLE RON ESTES TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

  The SPEAKER. Without objection, the gentlewoman from Kansas (Ms. 
Jenkins) is recognized for 1 minute.
  There was no objection.
  Ms. JENKINS of Kansas. Mr. Speaker, I rise this evening to 
congratulate my good friend and our new House colleague, Ron Estes.
  I have known Ron and his wife, Susan, for many years. I can tell you, 
he is truly one of the nicest guys you will ever want to know.
  Ron and I share a common bond, having served as State treasurers in 
Kansas, and I have watched him serve in that role well.
  With a nation $20 trillion in debt, it is always nice to add a fellow 
conservative to Congress to help fix the debt and get our economy on 
the right fiscal track, which I know Ron is committed to doing.
  He has dedicated his entire life to bold innovations and efficiency, 
reform, and problem solving in both the public and the private sector. 
Kansans in the Fourth District can be proud of their new Congressman, 
and I look forward to working with Congressman Ron Estes on behalf of 
Kansans.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Kansas (Mr. Estes), our 
newest colleague.
  Mr. ESTES. Mr. Speaker, I thank Congresswoman Jenkins and our entire 
Kansas delegation, and thank you to all the Members for serving.
  I also want to thank my wife, Susan Estes, who is up in the gallery 
tonight.
  My mother, Lou Estes, is also up there, my son, Brent Estes, and my 
daughters, Laura Estes and Grace Estes.
  As you all know, you can't run an election and you can't serve 
without the support of family and friends, so I appreciate the effort 
that they put in on my behalf. I look forward to serving with you. This 
is an honor to be a public servant and to work with you in the Chamber.
  I want to mention that my background, both in the private sector 
before I was elected county treasurer and then State treasurer, was to 
focus on how to make things more efficient and how do we get things 
done. The message that came through in the election was that the voters 
in my district, like the voters in your district, want to see us 
accomplish things and want to get them done.
  I appreciate the time, I appreciate the opportunity, and I look 
forward to serving with you to accomplish things for our country.

                          ____________________



