

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 107 (Thursday, June 22, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 107 (Thursday, June 22, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H5097]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                               TAX REFORM

  (Mr. GOTTHEIMER asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute.)
  Mr. GOTTHEIMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak out against dark-
of-night policymaking and extreme partisanship and turn to where we can 
work together with civility on our most pressing issues.
  Instead of focusing on what we do not agree on, we must work together 
where we can find common ground on cutting taxes for hardworking 
Americans and businesses of all sizes and investing in the crumbling 
roads, tunnels, and bridges Americans drive over every day. In New 
Jersey, our roads are the eighth worst in the country, while our taxes 
are way too high.
  As co-chair of the bipartisan Problem Solvers Caucus, I have been 
working around the clock with both parties since I was sworn in to fix 
our roads, while lowering taxes and cutting unnecessary regulation and 
red tape. By doing so, we can increase economic growth in jobs, improve 
safety, fight terror, ensure clean drinking water, stand by our vets 
and first responders, and give our country a competitive advantage on 
the world stage.
  We simply can't have a first-rate nation with second-class 
infrastructure and sky-high taxes. There is political will on both 
sides of the aisle on these issues, but we can't be spending our energy 
on rehashing the same tired partisan debates and jamming through 
partisan bills. We must work together to get things done for the 
American people.

                          ____________________



