

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 127 (Thursday, July 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 127 (Thursday, July 27, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H6480]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     THE PEOPLE'S RIGHT TO JUSTICE

  (Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute and to revise and extend her remarks.)
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, one of my predecessors set the standard 
for service to this Nation, among many, certainly--the Honorable Mickey 
Leland and Craig Washington--but the Honorable Barbara Jordan served on 
the Judiciary Committee. It was her standard during the Watergate 
impeachment hearings that set the Nation afire about the relevancy of 
the people's right to justice.
  That is why I hold this Constitution in hand and rise to the floor 
today to express my concern of the issues surrounding the Attorney 
General and the potential firing of the special counsel, Mr. Mueller.
  This book that has the Constitution in it guarantees three equal 
branches of government. There is an orderliness to the responsibilities 
of the Executive and of the United States Congress. We have oversight.
  The people want answers regarding Russian collusion and the steering 
of the election to one person over the other. Yes, they want jobs and 
opportunities, but we have the opportunity--or the responsibility--to 
clean our kitchen up.
  I am very concerned about any executive, any Commander in Chief, who 
would suggest, in violation of the Constitution, that they would fire 
the Attorney General and then have the opportunity to ensure that the 
special counsel was fired in contravention of the American people's 
desires.
  That is why I have introduced H. Res. 474, to cause this Congress to 
disapprove of any firing of the special counsel and reckless pardons of 
those who are under investigation.

                          ____________________



