

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 77 (Thursday, May 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 77 (Thursday, May 4, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2775]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 28

  At the request of Mr. Flake, the name of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Lee) was added as a cosponsor of S. 28, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to expand the permissible use of health savings 
accounts to include health insurance payments and to increase the 
dollar limitation for contributions to health savings accounts, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 261

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the names of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Mr. Johnson) and the Senator from Alabama (Mr. Strange) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 261, a bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
Cosmetic Act to improve and clarify certain disclosure requirements for 
restaurants and similar retail food establishments, and to amend the 
authority to bring proceedings under section 403A.


                                 S. 319

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from 
Delaware (Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 319, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs to establish within the Department of Veterans Affairs a center 
of excellence in the prevention, diagnosis, mitigation, treatment, and 
rehabilitation of health conditions relating to exposure to burn pits.


                                 S. 341

  At the request of Mr. Graham, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 341, a bill to provide for 
congressional oversight of actions to waive, suspend, reduce, provide 
relief from, or otherwise limit the application of sanctions with 
respect to the Russian Federation, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 419

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the names of the Senator from Texas 
(Mr. Cornyn), the Senator from Louisiana (Mr. Kennedy), the Senator 
from Texas (Mr. Cruz) and the Senator from North Carolina (Mr. Tillis) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 419, a bill to require adequate 
reporting on the Public Safety Officers' Benefits program, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 540

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Maine (Ms. 
Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. 540, a bill to limit the 
authority of States to tax certain income of employees for employment 
duties performed in other States.


                                 S. 569

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 569, a bill 
to amend title 54, United States Code, to provide consistent and 
reliable authority for, and for the funding of, the Land and Water 
Conservation Fund to maximize the effectiveness of the Fund for future 
generations, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 667

  At the request of Mr. Franken, the names of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) and the Senator from Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 667, a bill to amend titles 5, 10, 37, and 
38, United States Code, to ensure that an order to serve on active duty 
under section 12304a or 12304b of title 10, United States Code, is 
treated the same as other orders to serve on active duty for 
determining the eligibility of members of the uniformed services and 
veterans for certain benefits and for calculating the deadlines for 
certain benefits.


                                 S. 722

  At the request of Ms. Murkowski, her name was added as a cosponsor of 
S. 722, a bill to impose sanctions with respect to Iran in relation to 
Iran's ballistic missile program, support for acts of international 
terrorism, and violations of human rights, and for other purposes.
  At the request of Mr. Corker, the names of the Senator from Arizona 
(Mr. McCain), the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Portman) and the Senator from 
Louisiana (Mr. Kennedy) were added as cosponsors of S. 722, supra.


                                 S. 733

  At the request of Ms. Murkowski, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 733, a bill to protect 
and enhance opportunities for recreational hunting, fishing, and 
shooting, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 836

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the names of the Senator from Maine (Ms. 
Collins) and the Senator from California (Mrs. Feinstein) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 836, a bill to amend the Federal Credit Union Act to 
exclude a loan secured by a non-owner occupied 1- to 4-family dwelling 
from the definition of a member business loan, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 925

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 925, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to improve the ability of health care 
professionals to treat veterans through the use of telemedicine, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 926

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Crapo) was added as a cosponsor of S. 926, a bill to authorize the 
Global War on Terror Memorial Foundation to establish the National 
Global War on Terrorism Memorial as a commemorative work in the 
District of Columbia, and for other purposes.


 =========================== NOTE =========================== 

  
  On page S2775, May 4, 2017, in the third column, the following 
appears: S.926 At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the 
Senator from West Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 926, . . .
  
  The online Record has been corrected to read: S. 926 At the 
request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Crapo) was added as a cosponsor of S. 926, . . .


 ========================= END NOTE ========================= 



                                 S. 993

  At the request of Mr. Lee, the names of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Risch) and the Senator from Kansas (Mr. Roberts) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 993, a bill to prohibit the Federal Communications 
Commission from reclassifying broadband Internet access service as a 
telecommunications service and from imposing certain regulations on 
providers of such service.


                                S. 1027

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Nevada (Mr. 
Heller) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1027, a bill to extend the 
Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act of 2000.


                                S. 1035

  At the request of Mr. Heinrich, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1035, a bill 
to amend the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 with 
respect to the scope of employee pension benefit plans.


                               S. RES. 75

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mr. 
Grassley) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 75, a resolution 
recognizing the 100th anniversary of the Academy of Nutrition and 
Dietetics, the largest organization of food and nutrition professionals 
in the world.

                          ____________________



