

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 77 (Thursday, May 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 77 (Thursday, May 4, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4178]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                               MEMORIALS

  Under clause 3 of rule XII,

       34. The SPEAKER presented a memorial of the Senate of the 
     State of California, relative to Senate Resolution No. 29, 
     stating the Senate of the state of California hereby 
     designates the year of 2017 as ``State of California Year of 
     Commemoration of the Anniversary of the Armenian Genocide of 
     1915-1923'' and in doing so, intends, through the enactment 
     of legislation, that the Armenian Genocide is properly 
     commemorated and taught to its citizens and visitors; which 
     was referred jointly to the Committees on Foreign Affairs and 
     Education and the Workforce.


 =========================== NOTE =========================== 

  
  May 4, 2017, on page H4178, the following appeared: MEMORIALS 
Under clause 3 of rule XII, 34. The SPEAKER presented a memorial 
of the Senate of the State of California, relative to Senate 
Resolution No. 29, stating the Senate of the state of California 
herby designates the year of 2017 as ``State of California Year of 
Commemoration of the Anniversary of the Armenian Genocide of 1915-
1923'' and in doing so, intends, through the enactment of 
legislation, that the Armenian Genocide is properly commemorated 
and taught to its citizens and visitors; which was referred 
jointly to the Committees on Foreign Affairs and Education and the 
Workforce
  
  The online version has been corrected to read: MEMORIALS Under 
clause 3 of rule XII, 34. The SPEAKER presented a memorial of the 
Senate of the State of California, relative to Senate Resolution 
No. 29, stating the Senate of the state of California hereby 
designates the year of 2017 as ``State of California Year of 
Commemoration of the Anniversary of the Armenian Genocide of 1915-
1923'' and in doing so, intends, through the enactment of 
legislation, that the Armenian Genocide is properly commemorated 
and taught to its citizens and visitors; which was referred 
jointly to the Committees on Foreign Affairs and Education and the 
Workforce


 ========================= END NOTE ========================= 


                          ____________________



