

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 125 (Tuesday, July 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 125 (Tuesday, July 25, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H6224]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                HONORING THE LIFE OF DAVID COGDILL, SR.

  (Mr. DENHAM asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. DENHAM. Madam Speaker, I rise today to acknowledge and honor the 
life of a cherished leader and great friend, former California State 
Senator Dave Cogdill, Sr. The beloved husband, father, and grandfather 
passed away at the age of 66 on Sunday, surrounded by his family.
  Born on December 31, 1950, Dave spent most of his adult life in 
public service. That public service started when he enlisted in 1970 in 
the Air Force Reserve, serving in the Air National Guard, as well as on 
Active Duty.
  In 1975, he was elected as a member of the Board of Directors of the 
Bridgeport Fire Protection District in Mono County. He moved to Modesto 
in 1979 and built his real estate appraisal business while serving on 
various boards and commissions in both the public and private sectors. 
And he served two terms on the Modesto City Council. Dave went on to 
represent the 25th District in the California State Assembly for 6 
years prior to being elected to the State senate in 2006. He served as 
the California State Senate Republican leader from 2008 to 2009, in 
addition to numerous committees, including Public Safety, the Revenue 
and Taxation, and the Joint Legislative Audit Committees.

  A real estate appraiser by trade, Dave served as Stanislaus County 
assessor from 2011 to 2013, after which he joined the California 
Building Industry Association as CEO and president in October of 2013.
  For his many years of an exemplary legislative career, Dave was 
awarded the prestigious Profile in Courage Award from the John F. 
Kennedy Library Foundation in 2010. That was just one of the many 
recognitions he received throughout his lifetime.
  Dave and his wife, Stephanie, were married for 47 years. They have a 
son, David, Jr.; a daughter, Meghan Merrell; and three grandchildren, 
Connor, Katie, and Cooper.
  Madam Speaker, please join me in honoring and recognizing California 
State Senator Dave Cogdill for his unwavering leadership and 
friendship. He had a long history of service to California and to our 
community. He will be greatly missed.

                          ____________________



