

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 72 (Thursday, April 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 72 (Thursday, April 27, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2909]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    PRESIDENT TRUMP'S FIRST 100 DAYS

  (Mr. SARBANES asked and was given permission to address the House for 
1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. SARBANES. Mr. Speaker, the President said he would drain the 
swamp in Washington. He has flooded it. He said he would break the 
cycle of corruption. He has accelerated it. Nearly 100 days into his 
administration, the President has reneged on the fundamental promise 
that he would clean up Washington.
  Today, the Democracy Reform Task Force is releasing a report 
detailing 100 ways the Trump administration has flooded the swamp in 
the first 100 days. As the report chronicles, President Trump has made 
a mockery of ethics law and regulation, promoted a culture of secrecy 
in the executive branch, stacked his Cabinet with Big Money campaign 
donors, installed a special interest revolving door into the Trump 
White House, put big money ahead of the public interest, turned the 
Presidency into a profit-making enterprise, pursued public policy for 
his personal benefit, and raided the Treasury to pay for vacations and 
private business promotion.
  These are not the actions of a President intent on draining the swamp 
or restoring a voice to the voiceless or restoring power to the 
powerless. Americans of all political stripes are starting to wonder: 
``Maybe the President isn't looking out for me and my family. Maybe he 
is just looking out for himself, his business, and his brand.''
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Members are reminded to refrain from 
engaging in personalities toward the President.

                          ____________________



