

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 61 (Friday, April 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 61 (Friday, April 7, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2445]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          TRIBUTE TO NEIL SMIT

  Mr. TOOMEY. Mr. President, I want to recognize a constituent of mine, 
Neil Smit, for his service to our country, volunteer work in the 
community, and accomplishments in the business world. Earlier this 
year, Neil stepped down as president and CEO of Comcast Cable after 7 
years with the company, but he will continue to work for the Comcast 
Corporation in his new role as a vice chairman.
  Many know Neil for his business success and acumen, but his 
impressive career began as a member of the Armed Forces. Neil served on 
Active Duty with the Navy SEAL teams for over 5 years and retired from 
the service as a lieutenant commander. Neil never forgot the actions of 
his fellow servicemembers, which is why he championed Comcast's pledge 
to help Active-Duty servicemembers find jobs and make the transition 
into the civilian workforce. In particular, Neil spearheaded Comcast's 
commitment to hire 10,000 veterans, Reservists, and their spouses, as 
well as improving the company's military leave policies.
  Neil is active in community service, both nationally and in the 
Philadelphia region. He currently sits on the executive committee of 
the board of trustees for the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, and 
he serves on the board of directors of the National Cable and 
Telecommunications Association and C-SPAN, which broadcasts the 
Senate's proceedings nationwide.
  As CEO of Comcast Cable, Neil developed and implemented significant 
changes aiming to improve cable and broadband services across the 
country. Comcast has a strong and well-known presence in Pennsylvania, 
both in terms of delivering television programming and Internet service 
to customers and in employing thousands of hard-working individuals 
across a variety of careers. Under Neil's leadership, Comcast Cable 
accelerated its commitment to job creation and innovation, developing 
new products that changed how customers consume telecommunication 
services. Prior to his time at Comcast, Neil displayed the same 
leadership and dedication to teamwork while serving in senior 
leadership positions at Charter Communications, AOL, Pillsbury, and 
Nabisco.
  Today I congratulate Neil Smit on his leadership and an impressive 
career. I thank him for his service to our Nation and wish him well in 
his new role.

                          ____________________



