

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 73 (Friday, April 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 73 (Friday, April 28, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2967]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           THE NEXT 100 DAYS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under the Speaker's announced policy of 
January 3, 2017, the Chair recognizes the gentleman from Florida (Mr. 
Lawson) for 30 minutes.
  Mr. LAWSON of Florida. Mr. Speaker, we have heard a lot of big ideas 
and promises from the President, but we haven't seen much intangible 
action from the Republicans over the last 100 days. We know we need to 
continue to improve health care in this country, yet Republicans have 
failed to come up with a reasonable solution.
  As someone who has spent over 36 years working in the insurance 
industry, I stand willing and ready to work with my colleagues to 
improve health care for my constituents and the American people, 
especially in the Fifth Congressional District.
  What we really need is for my colleagues to focus on energy and 
creating jobs. That is so important here in America.
  What we don't need is to continue with more of the antics from the 
President who is more focused on selling scores from the campaign trail 
than finding real solutions for the American people.
  It really is a sad day in America when Congress can't come together 
to make real progress for the American people. Real progress. We need 
to put aside the bickering and roll up our sleeves in order to get the 
work done for the people in America.
  That is something we should all be able to do within the next 100 
days. There has been so much concern about what is happening with the 
present administration over the next 100 days. So since that is 
prevalent and the American people have heard about it, now the 
concentration is on what Congress and the President are going to do for 
the next 100 days for the American people.
  I urge my colleagues to join me in doing what is right--right for 
their constituents, right for the American people.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the remainder of my time.

                          ____________________



