

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 60 (Thursday, April 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 60 (Thursday, April 6, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2769-H2770]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      HONORING JOHN HERSCHEL GLENN

  (Ms. KAPTUR asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.)
  Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, the American flag on our Nation's Capitol is 
flying at half-mast to honor the life of American hero, Ohio Senator 
and Colonel John Herschel Glenn, being laid to rest today at Arlington 
National Cemetery.
  What a human being, what a patriot, what an American hero, and what a 
marine whose raw courage was evidenced time and time again. A devoted, 
faithful husband to his beautiful wife, Annie, and father and 
grandfather, his life and works keep giving to us and our world.
  John was a highly decorated war veteran, a Marine Corps colonel who 
completed 56 combat missions on the Pacific front alone during World 
War II, and then served in the Korean conflict. He was awarded six 
Distinguished Flying Crosses and 18 clusters on his Air Medal.
  At the dawn of the space age, Senator Glenn became the first human 
being to orbit our planet Earth in 1962 on Friendship 7.

[[Page H2770]]

  Can you imagine his awe as he became the first human to observe 
planet Earth suspended aloft in the heavens with endless space beyond?
  In 1974, John Glenn was elected to the U.S. Senate, and undertook 
many tough missions in his life, but none could have been more piercing 
than when he was given the weighty task of informing the children of 
Senator Robert F. Kennedy of that Senator's fateful assassination.
  John Glenn's life embodies the words ``devotion,'' ``honor,'' 
``patriotism,'' and ``bravery.'' He never stopped giving. At age 77, he 
chose to join the team of astronauts who were launched into space on 
the Discovery.
  Upon retirement from the U.S. Senate in 1999, after a quarter century 
of service, he dedicated his years to founding and raising funds for 
the John Glenn College of Public Affairs at the Ohio State University.
  In recognition of his incredible and generous life, I will place in 
the Record the remarks of Vice President Joe Biden at a remembrance 
ceremony held in Columbus, Ohio, recently, as our State honored his 
life and legacy.
  May the angels lead John Glenn into paradise and give peace to his 
family. May eternal rest grant unto you, dearest Senator and Colonel 
Glenn. You gave all that you could possibly give, and America is 
forever grateful.
  May I ask my colleagues to stand with me for a moment of silence in 
remembrance of Senator John Glenn.

                          ____________________



