

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 102 (Thursday, June 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 102 (Thursday, June 15, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3553]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    REMEMBERING QUARRIER ``Q'' COOK

 Mr. HEINRICH. Mr. President, from the moment she arrived in 
Santa Fe in 1983, Quarrier ``Q'' Cook gave back. She gave her time to 
the Santa Fe Community Foundation as a board member. She gave her knack 
for fundraising to the Santa Fe Chamber Music Festival as cochair of 
several endowment campaigns and as board president from 2002 to 2005. 
She gave her energy and attention to many of New Mexico's social 
services organizations.
  She gave whatever she could give to make New Mexico a better place.
  Last year, Q Cook and her husband Phillip Cook received the Santa Fe 
Community Foundation's Philanthropic Leadership Award during the annual 
Pinon Awards Ceremony. In her acceptance speech, she remarked that in 
order to be part of a community, ``you have to help the community'' in 
small and large ways.
  Q Cook's commitment to these values and her interest in helping 
others came from growing up in a family that always gave back and 
expected their children to do the same. She was born on April 7, 1935, 
in Wheeling, WV, to Thomas Moffat Block and Nancy Fulton and grew up 
seeing her parents' commitment to activism and public service. She 
attended Vassar College, earned a political science degree, and became 
involved in political activism herself.
  She had three children: Thomas McKitrick Jones, Nancy Jones Carter, 
and Clare Fitz-Gerald Jones. She shared her love for the Southwest's 
culture with her daughter Clare, with whom she opened a southwestern 
home furnishings boutique in Washington, DC, called Santa Fe Style. As 
the buyer for the store, Q made sure that New Mexico had a presence in 
our Nation's Capital.
  Back at home, she was known as a driving force who achieved whatever 
goal she set out to reach. She was someone any New Mexican would want 
on their side, someone who was generous, always willing to open her 
home, and give her time.
  At the Pinon Awards, she said, ``We hope that a little bit of what we 
have done has made the world a better place for some people.''
  Q Cook made the world a better place for lots of us, and New Mexico 
is indebted to her lifetime of service.

                          ____________________



