

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 123 (Thursday, July 20, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 123 (Thursday, July 20, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4108-S4109]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                   TRIBUTE TO MAJOR RICHARD E. HAGNER

 Mr. COCHRAN. Mr. President, I am pleased to commend MAJ 
Richard E. Hagner for his dedication to duty and service to the Nation 
as an Army congressional fellow and congressional budget liaison for 
the Assistant Secretary of the Army. Major Hagner was recently selected 
for the Army's prestigious Advanced Strategic Planning and Policy 
Program and will be transitioning from his present assignment to begin 
doctoral studies at Vanderbilt University.
  A native of Milwaukee, WI, Major Hagner was commissioned as an 
infantry officer after his graduation from

[[Page S4109]]

North Georgia College and State University with a bachelor of science 
degree. He subsequently earned master's degrees in joint information 
operations from the Naval Postgraduate School and legislative affairs 
from the George Washington University.
  Major Hagner has served in a broad range of assignments during his 
Army career. He has served as a rifle platoon leader, communications 
officer, and network engineer, becoming instrumental to the success of 
his units from the battalion to brigade level. Notably, he has also 
commanded at the company level in Mannheim, Germany, following a 
demanding combat deployment to Afghanistan. His leadership has brought 
great credit to the U.S. Army.
  In 2015, Major Hagner was selected to be an Army congressional 
fellow, where he served in the offices of the late Congressman Alan 
Nunnelee of Mississippi and Congressman Steve Israel of New York. I 
have had the privilege of working with him in his role as a 
congressional budget liaison officer. In that role, Richard ensured the 
Army's budget positions were well represented before the appropriations 
committees.
  It has been a pleasure to have worked with MAJ Richard Hagner. His 
leadership, thoughtful judgment, and exemplary work have been a 
positive influence on his soldiers, peers, and superiors throughout his 
career. I am pleased to recognize and commend his dedication to our 
Nation and service to the U.S. Congress as an Army congressional 
liaison.

                          ____________________



