

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 77 (Thursday, May 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 77 (Thursday, May 4, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2772]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         RECOGNIZING HYDROHOIST

 Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, small businesses play an integral 
role in Oklahoma's economy. They consist of over 52 percent of all 
employees in Oklahoma. Additionally, within Oklahoma, over 84 percent 
of all exports come from small businesses. Today I have the distinct 
honor of recognizing one of the many successful small businesses in my 
home State of Oklahoma for National Small Business Week. While there 
are many businesses worthy of recognition, I am particularly proud of 
HydroHoist.
  For over 53 years, HydroHoist has been not only a leader but an 
originator and industry innovator of the market for boat lifts, 
personal watercraft--PWC--ports, and boat protection packages. Their 
products range from 900-pound drive-on docking platforms for PWCs, to 
lifts with the holding capacity for 130,000 pound watercraft. 
HydroHoist launched half a century ago by an Oklahoma marina owner in 
Grand Lake, OK. By 1971, the company moved into an old World War II 
munitions plant in Claremore, OK, where it is still located today. 
HydroHoist's technology revolutionized the boating industry, and 
remarkably, some of these original hoists are still in use today. 
HydroHoist has expanded far beyond America's borders to international 
waters, too.
  I want to congratulate and thank president and CEO Mick Webber of 
HydroHoist for his outstanding and devoted work in creating a shining 
business model with over 4 distribution warehouses and over 600 dealers 
throughout the world. Mr. Webber's dedication to making these products 
in America should not only make Oklahomans proud, but all Americans. 
HydroHoist's success should be an example for all businesses, and I am 
proud to recognize their hard work and dedication.

                          ____________________



