

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 77 (Thursday, May 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 77 (Thursday, May 4, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2780-S2781]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I have 8 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to Rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate.


                      Committee on Armed Services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, May 4, 2017, at 9:30 a.m.


            Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs

  The Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, May 4, 2017, at 10 
a.m. to hold a hearing entitled ``Reauthorization of the National Flood 
Insurance Program, Part II.''


               Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

  The Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate in order to hold a hearing on 
Thursday, May 4, 2017, at 10 a.m. in Room 366 of the Dirksen Senate 
Office Building in Washington, DC.


                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, May 4, 2017, at 10 a.m., to hold a 
hearing entitled ``International Development: Value Added Through 
Private Sector Engagement.''


                       Committee on the Judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, May 4, 2017, at 2 p.m., in S-216 of 
the Capitol, to conduct an executive business meeting.


                       Committee on Intelligence

  The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet 
during the session of the 115th Congress of the U.S. Senate on 
Thursday, May 4, 2017

[[Page S2781]]

at 2 p.m., in room SH-219 of the Senate Hart Office Building.


                       Committee on Intelligence

  The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet 
during the session of the 115th Congress of the U.S. Senate on 
Thursday, May 4, 2017 from 2 p.m., in room SH-219 of the Senate Hart 
Office Building to hold a closed hearing.


        Subcommittee on Aviation Operations, Safety and Security

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to hold a meeting during the session of the Senate on Thursday, May 4, 
2017, at 10:30 a.m., in room 253 of the Russell Senate Office Building.
  The Committee will hold a Subcommittee Hearing on ``Question, Answer, 
and Perspectives on the Current State of Airline Travel.''

                          ____________________



