

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 102 (Thursday, June 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 102 (Thursday, June 15, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4923]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                HONORING LIEUTENANT PATRICK WEATHERFORD

  (Mr. CRAWFORD asked and was given permission to address the House for 
1 minute.)
  Mr. CRAWFORD. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of a 
police officer from my district who lost his life in the line of duty 
just this week.
  Lieutenant Patrick Weatherford was a 15-year veteran of the Newport 
police force in the criminal investigations division. He graduated from 
Arkansas State University-Newport, and University of Arkansas at Little 
Rock.
  Lieutenant Weatherford, 41, was the husband to Kristen Weatherford 
and a loving father to his daughter and young son.
  At 6 p.m. on Monday, June 12, 2017, Weatherford responded to reports 
of a vehicle break-in. In pursuit of the suspect on foot, Lieutenant 
Weatherford was shot and taken to a local hospital where, shortly 
after, he succumbed to his wounds.
  While I did not know Weatherford personally, what I do know is that 
he was deeply loved by his community of Newport. The police chief, 
Michael Scudder, described Weatherford as a very good friend and an 
excellent officer who wanted to make things better for Newport. Others 
remember him as a mentor and a fair, calming presence on the force at 
times when things can get tense.
  Weatherford had graduated from Newport High School and dedicated his 
life to learning how to serve the community he loved better and better. 
Last year, Patrick had graduated from the FBI Academy in Quantico, 
Virginia. That same year, Weatherford was named the Jackson County 
Officer of the Year by Arkansas Attorney General Leslie Rutledge.
  Weatherford's passing should be a reminder of what we ask of our 
police officers and first responders every day, year in and year out. 
The work they do is so often underappreciated, and yet their dedication 
and discipline allows all of us to live in peace and safety.
  My thoughts continue to be with Lieutenant Weatherford's family, 
their police department, and the community of Newport. What our fellow 
men and women risk to protect us every day should humble us all.

                          ____________________



