

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 97 (Wednesday, June 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 97 (Wednesday, June 7, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4655]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               HONORING THE LIFE AND MEMORY OF ROY HERTEL

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Illinois (Mr. Rodney Davis) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the 
life and memory of my friend Roy Hertel, who passed away Thursday, May 
25, at the age of 68.
  Roy was a true public servant and community leader in Montgomery 
County, Illinois. Throughout his life and career, he held many roles in 
the region and had an immeasurable impact on countless lives, including 
mine.
  As a teacher, circuit clerk, county board chairman, and administrator 
for the county's Department of Health and Human Services in the State 
of Illinois, Roy's career was defined by his dedication to bettering 
the lives of those not only in Montgomery County, but also throughout 
central Illinois.
  His involvement in the region went far beyond his career. Roy was an 
active member of the Disciples of Christ in Hillsboro; a 45-year member 
of the Lions Club, where he had held all offices, the district 
lieutenant governor and district governor in 1991 and 1992; a member of 
the Mt. Moriah Masonic Lodge Number 51 A.F. & A.M. in Hillsboro; 
president of the Circuit Clerk's Association; a member of the Hillsboro 
Moose Lodge Number 1377; part of the Hillsboro Sports Association; and 
served as chairman, until his death, of the Montgomery County Board.
  Roy also served as a coach for both youth baseball and soccer 
leagues, and was a dedicated fan and supporter of every sports team 
that his son played on and every child played on in Hillsboro, 
Illinois. He was especially fond of the Hillsboro Junior High Dragons 
that his son started on, clear up until his son played for the Gateway 
Grizzlies.
  My thoughts and prayers are with Nanci and the rest of Roy's family 
and friends, as central Illinois has lost a leader whose presence will 
be tremendously missed.

                          ____________________



