

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 105 (Tuesday, June 20, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 105 (Tuesday, June 20, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3644]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                        TRIBUTE TO LARRY VOYLES

 Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I come to the floor today to 
congratulate Larry Voyles, the former executive director of the Arizona 
Game and Fish Department, for his 40 years of dedicated service to the 
State of Arizona and the Nation.
  Larry recently retired from the helm of my home State's wildlife 
management agency. He leaves with a litany of accolades and 
achievements that underscore a remarkable career. During his time at 
the department, Larry also served in a variety of national posts that 
advanced Federal policies important to outdoor sports and wildlife 
conservation, including as president of the Association of Fish and 
Wildlife Agencies.
  Larry first began at the department as a district manager and 
eventually ascended to become the agency's top training officer and 
later a regional director before being selected by the Arizona Game and 
Fish Commission to serve as the executive director for the past 8 
years.
  Faced with daunting challenges like regional drought and catastrophic 
wildfires, Larry proved time and again that the department understands 
how to care for the land and the large variety of animal life in the 
Grand Canyon State. Larry also knows the importance of safeguarding a 
State's right to manage wildlife populations without undue interference 
from the Federal Government, and he remains a tireless advocate for 
sportsmen community and those pursuing meaningful wildlife 
conservation.
  I thank Larry, my friend, for his honorable service at the Arizona 
Department of Game and Fish and wish him the best in his future 
endeavors.

                          ____________________



