

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 86 (Thursday, May 18, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 86 (Thursday, May 18, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4324]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      CALLING FOR SPECIAL COUNSEL

  (Ms. PLASKETT asked and was given permission to address the House for 
1 minute and to revise and extend her remarks.)
  Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, on April 4 of this year, I, along with my 
colleagues Ted Lieu and Kathleen Rice, sent a letter to the Department 
of Justice asking that they appoint a special counsel to investigate 
any Trump campaign collusions with Russia.
  Yesterday, the Department of Justice took a step in the right 
direction by appointing former FBI Director Robert Mueller as the 
special counsel to oversee the Federal investigation into possible 
Russian interference in the 2016 election, including potential 
collusion between Trump campaign associates and Russian officials.
  I have worked with Mr. Mueller at Justice and recognize his past 
accomplishments. His appointment speaks to the urgency of bringing some 
stability to this process so that Congress can get back to the business 
of working on what our constituents need most: issues affecting Virgin 
Islanders and the United States of America and the world; issues of 
jobs, infrastructure, education.
  Last week I introduced H.R. 2404, the Improving the Treatment of the 
U.S. Territories Under the Federal Health Programs Act of 2017, a bill 
to remove the existing inequities and disparities that territories face 
under Medicaid and Medicare, and also to provide us with a fair share 
of funding for our hospitals.
  Mr. Speaker, these are the types of issues Congress must begin to 
work on for the American people, and I ask my colleagues to continue to 
put people over politics.

                          ____________________



