

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 85 (Wednesday, May 17, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 85 (Wednesday, May 17, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4235]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    RECOGNIZING NATIONAL POLICE WEEK

  (Mr. LaHOOD asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. LaHOOD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in recognition of National 
Police Week, a time to honor and thank law enforcement officers for all 
they do in service to our communities.
  As a former State and Federal prosecutor, I have worked with law 
enforcement officers at every level: local, State, and Federal. I 
watched as they tirelessly worked to carry out justice and keep our 
communities safe.
  As a Member of Congress, I have the privilege of representing a 
district that is both rural and urban. I have seen the different 
challenges that our officers have faced. They have done it in a 
tremendous way, both at the local police level and at the sheriff 
level. The work and effort put in by the officers in each community 
never ceases to amaze me. It is a big reason why our district has 
continued to thrive with vibrant and safe communities.
  This work does not come without its risks. Far too many officers pay 
the ultimate price. Last year in South Jacksonville, Illinois, in my 
district, one of its own was killed in the line of duty. Losses like 
this are devastating for both the families and our communities. We must 
never forget their sacrifices and we must continue to work to keep our 
officers protected.
  Mr. Speaker, I am proud of the work the House is doing this week to 
do just that. I thank every law enforcement officer for their 
commitment and dedication towards keeping America safe.

                          ____________________



