

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 79 (Monday, May 8, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 79 (Monday, May 8, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2798-S2799]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




   REMEMBERING DR. CYNTHIA ``CYNDI'' RAY AND TRIBUTE TO SEAN ENGLISH

 Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize the 
heroic actions of

[[Page S2799]]

Dr. Cynthia ``Cyndi'' Ray and Mr. Sean English. On Sunday, April 2, 
2017, Dr. Ray and Mr. English stopped to assist six passengers trapped 
in an overturned SUV on Interstate 96 near Fullerton, MI, when a second 
vehicle lost control and struck them. Dr. Ray was on her way to work at 
Henry Ford Hospital, while Mr. English and his parents were headed to 
St. Peter and Paul Jesuit Church in downtown Detroit, where he was 
expected to sing in the choir. The accident left Dr. Ray, Mr. English, 
and the driver of the second vehicle in critical condition, and, on 
April 5, 2017, Dr. Ray succumbed to her injuries, tragically passing 
away. Mr. English suffered a broken pelvis and lost part of his foot.
  Dr. Cynthia Ray was born on August 28, 1970, in Kansas City, KS, to 
parents Floey--Collier--and the late Dr. Fred Ray. Growing up in the 
State of Oklahoma, Dr. Ray followed her father into the field of 
medicine. After graduating from Ross University School of Medicine in 
1999 and completing her residency at St. Joseph Mercy Health System, 
Dr. Ray went on to practice interventional pulmonology at Henry Ford 
Hospital's department of pathology and radiology, in Detroit, MI. 
Highly regarded as a compassionate colleague and physician, Dr. Ray was 
part of the Henry Ford family since 2005.
  Dr. Ray's talents extended far beyond medicine. As a former Henry 
Ford Hospital ``Campus Idol'' contestant, Dr. Ray was a gifted singer, 
as well as a former ballerina and admirable cook. She also cared deeply 
about rescuing dogs. Dr. Ray will be greatly missed in the city of 
Detroit, as well as across the State of Michigan.
  Mr. Sean English, a junior at University of Detroit Jesuit High 
School, is admired by his peers and his teachers. An active member of 
his school community, Mr. English is a star student-athlete on 
University of Detroit Jesuit's cross country and track team and is the 
reigning Catholic League champion in the 1-mile run. He is also 
involved in student government and serves on the student senate 
selection committee. In stopping to assist others in a time of need, 
Mr. English exemplified the mission of University of Detroit Jesuit, 
``Men for Others.'' In a telling testament to his character and the 
impact he has made, both on his fellow students and the broader 
University of Detroit Jesuit community, there has been an incredible 
outpouring of support to both him and his family. I know the 
administration, faculty, parents, and students of University of Detroit 
Jesuit have offered their praise of Mr. English, for serving as an 
example of faith and perseverance, as well as his great sense of humor.
  I ask my colleagues to join me today in recognizing the incredible 
selflessness of these two good Samaritans: Dr. Cynthia Ray and Mr. Sean 
English. Our communities are made stronger by the actions of everyday 
heroes, like Dr. Ray and Mr. English. I know that Dr. Ray's passion, 
dedication, and compassion will be deeply missed. I also commend Mr. 
English for his dedication to helping others, as well as his bravery in 
the face of adversity, and I wish him a full and speedy recovery. My 
thoughts and prayers are with everyone impacted by this incident, and I 
know the actions and sacrifices of both Dr. Ray and Mr. English will 
continue to inspire others to serve their community and make a 
difference in the lives of others.

                          ____________________



