

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 77 (Thursday, May 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 77 (Thursday, May 4, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4114]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 HONORING NATIONAL SMALL BUSINESS WEEK

  (Mr. YOHO asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in honor of National Small 
Business Week. Small businesses are the backbone of our economy. This 
week is dedicated to celebrating and recognizing them and their 
contributions to our Nation. Because of this, I wanted to take a moment 
to recognize a few stellar small businesses in north central Florida.
  Archer Automotive and Tire, founded in 2004, came about after a fleet 
mechanic of over 20 years decided he wanted to open his own shop. 
Thirteen years later, they have expanded into a state-of-the-art 
facility employing over eight families, allowing them to serve even 
more of their community.
  Eat the 80, winner of the Gainesville Chamber of Commerce's 2016 
Leading Women's Enterprise Award, is a meal delivery service 
specializing in health food that doesn't lack flavor or quality. They 
believe that everyone should have access to a healthy diet, and they 
built a business that could provide meals for working families.
  Finally, I would like to recognize Endoscopy Replacement Parts, an 
aftermarket manufacturer established in 1997. Their 18 years of 
manufacturing experience, great customer service, and giving back to 
the community has led them to be recognized as the 2015 Manufacturers 
Association of Florida's Manufacturer of the Year, and the 2015 Small 
Business Administration's Small Business Exporter of the Year.
  Mr. Speaker, it is businesses like that that keep our communities 
vital and growing.

                          ____________________



