

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 89 (Tuesday, May 23, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 89 (Tuesday, May 23, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H4431-H4432]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1215
              RAISING THE DIALOGUE ON MIDDLE NEIGHBORHOODS

  (Mr. EVANS asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.)
  Mr. EVANS. Mr. Speaker, President Trump's budget is officially live, 
and he plans to make massive cuts to programs that help our hardworking 
families get ahead.
  What do we have to lose under President Trump's budget? What don't we 
have to lose? Education programs for our children, Medicare and 
Medicaid for the health and safety of our neighborhoods, affordable 
housing, SNAP benefits, veterans, seniors, and the hits keep coming. A 
budget is a moral document, and this one shortchanges Americans from 
the middle neighborhoods in Philadelphia to Beaver, Pennsylvania.
  The President talks about putting the country first, yet the budget 
does no such thing.
  There is a big difference between governing and campaigning. 
President Trump, our neighborhoods have a lot to lose when it comes to 
your budget. Over 40 percent of the populations of

[[Page H4432]]

Philadelphia live in what you call middle neighborhoods. Middle 
neighborhoods are neighborhoods caught between bust and boom, 
neighborhoods that are doing well enough.
  Our neighborhoods compete for people. My district has a poverty rate 
of 28 percent. Mr. President, now is not the time to make deep cuts to 
programs our neighbors rely on while calling for massive tax cuts for 
the rich.
  Instead, we need to make investments in food policy, social safety 
net, education policy, and make access to capital and credit. Our 
communities have too much to lose. Together we will build stronger 
neighborhoods, block by block.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Poe of Texas). Members are reminded to 
address all comments to the Chair, not to other Members or to the 
President.

                          ____________________



