

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 128 (Friday, July 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 128 (Friday, July 28, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H6563-H6564]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




CONTINUATION OF THE NATIONAL EMERGENCY WITH RESPECT TO LEBANON--MESSAGE 
      FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 115-59)

  The SPEAKER pro tempore laid before the House the following message 
from the President of the United States; which was read and, together 
with the accompanying papers, referred to the Committee on Foreign 
Affairs and ordered to be printed:

To the Congress of the United States:
  Section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) 
provides for the automatic termination of a national emergency unless, 
within 90 days of the anniversary date of its declaration, the 
President publishes in the Federal Register and transmits to the 
Congress a notice stating that the emergency is to continue in effect 
beyond the anniversary date. In accordance with this provision, I have 
sent to the Federal Register for publication the enclosed notice 
stating that the national emergency with respect to Lebanon that was 
declared in Executive Order 13441 of August 1, 2007, is to continue in 
effect beyond August 1, 2017.
  Certain ongoing activities, such as continuing arms transfers to 
Hizballah that include increasingly sophisticated weapons systems, 
undermine Lebanese sovereignty, contribute to political and economic 
instability in the region, and continue to constitute an unusual and 
extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the 
United States. For this reason, I have

[[Page H6564]]

determined that it is necessary to continue the national emergency 
declared in Executive Order 13441 with respect to Lebanon.
                                                     Donald J. Trump.  
The White House, July 28, 2017.

                          ____________________



