

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 99 (Monday, June 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 99 (Monday, June 12, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3394-S3395]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      TRIBUTE TO HOOSIER STUDENTS

 Mr. YOUNG. Mr. President, in my home State of Indiana, we take 
great pride when our children display exemplary academic work and 
interest in our Nation's history. We are very proud of four Hoosier 
middle school students from Warsaw, IN, who are using their research 
skills to tell the story of a heroic veteran for their National History 
Day project entitled ``Taking a Stand at Pearl Harbor.''
  I am pleased to recognize these four fine young men, Keller Bailey 
and Jason Benyousky of Washington STEM Academy, Geoffrey Hochstetler, 
who is educated at home, and Ryun Hoffert of Eisenhower Elementary; who 
worked together to research, write, and perform a series of skits 
around the theme, ``Making a Stand in History.'' These boys chose to 
design their project around the events of December 7, 1941, the day the 
Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor. As part of their detailed research, the 
students read a book by a veteran and Pearl Harbor survivor Donald 
Stratton. This book inspired

[[Page S3395]]

one of the scenes of their presentation, which depicts the heroic 
actions of Boatswain's Mate 2nd Class Joe George's rescue of six men 
from the sinking USS Arizona. Ryun Hoffert went the literal extra mile 
and traveled to Pearl Harbor for the 75th anniversary of the attack to 
meet with local experts and see the memorials erected in honor of our 
fallen heroes. After this exhaustive research effort, these dedicated 
students each wrote scenes for their presentation.
  According to their project sponsor, Richard Rooker, each student 
brought his unique gifts to the team: ``Keller displayed indefatigable 
energy. Jason contributed his outstanding acting ability. Geoffrey lent 
the team his calm and steady demeanor, and Ryun brought his insatiable 
curiosity about history to the project.''
  In February, their presentation won first place in the district 
competition. They continued to revise, refine, and practice their 
presentation, and their perseverance paid off on May 6, when they 
placed first in the junior division in the Indiana State competition. 
This week, they will compete at the national competition at the 
University of Maryland.
  I would like to extend my sincerest congratulations to Keller, Jason, 
Geoffrey, and Ryun for their hard work, patriotism, and success in the 
Indiana State competition for National History Day. I would also like 
to recognize the supportive parents, teachers, and advisers who helped 
the students along the way, especially Mr. Rooker. On behalf of all 
Hoosiers, we are proud of your creativity and determination; your 
entire State is cheering for you.

                          ____________________



