

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 84 (Tuesday, May 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 84 (Tuesday, May 16, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2970]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I have 5 requests for committees to 
meet during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of 
the Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to Rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


                  banking, housing, and urban affairs

  The Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, May 16, 2017 at 10 
a.m. to conduct a hearing to consider the following nominations: Ms. 
Sigal Mandelker, to be Under Secretary for Terrorism and Financial 
Crimes, U.S. Department of Treasury; Ms. Mira Radielovic Ricardel, to 
be Under Secretary for Export Administration, U.S. Department of 
Commerce; Mr. Marshall Billingslea, to be Assistant Secretary for 
Terrorist Financing, U.S. Department of Treasury; and Mr. Heath P. 
Tarbert to be Assistant Secretary, U.S. Department of Treasury.


                          committee on finance

  The Committee on Finance is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Tuesday, May 16, 2017, at 10 a.m., in 215 Dirksen Senate 
Office Building.


                     committee on foreign relations

  The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet 
during the session of the 115th Congress of the U.S. Senate on Tuesday, 
May 16, 2017 from 2:15 p.m., in room SH-219 of the Senate Hart Office 
Building.


               committee on environment and public works

           subcommittee on transportation and infrastructure

  The Subcommittee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the 
Committee on Environment and Public Works is authorized to meet during 
the session of the Senate on Tuesday, May 16, 2017, at 3:15 p.m., in 
room 406 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building, to conduct a hearing 
entitled, ``Leveraging Federal Funding; Innovative Solutions for 
Infrastructure.''

                          ____________________



