

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 115 (Monday, July 10, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 115 (Monday, July 10, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3884]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                RECOGNIZING THE BILLINGS PUBLIC LIBRARY

 Mr. TESTER. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize the 
Billings Public Library for promoting a center of reading and learning 
for folks in Montana.
  The Billings Public Library was established in 1901 and was named for 
Parmly Billings, the only member of the founding Billings family to 
reside in the city.
  More than 100 years later, the 200,000-volume library has grown and 
expanded, entrenching itself deeply in the fabric of the Billings 
community. It has grown from one location to two and now has two mobile 
components to increase the number of people with access to the 
library's resources.
  The Billings Public Library as an institution has also been 
tirelessly dedicated to Montana historical preservation through its 
``Montana Collection,'' which has collected historical information 
about Montana since 1902.
  Beyond providing families in Billings with access to information 
through books and computers, the Billings Public Library has provided 
residents with the opportunity to make their voice heard and 
participate in countless townhall meetings and listening sessions, 
including many on topics ranging from the future of our public lands to 
the quality of care at the VA.
  The library will celebrate its 116th anniversary in August 2017, 
making it one of Montana's oldest and most cherished learning spaces. 
The Billings Public Library has had a profound impact on the city of 
Billings and is a true example of fine service to the Montana 
people.

                          ____________________



