

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 111 (Wednesday, June 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 111 (Wednesday, June 28, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3828-S3829]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




       REMEMBERING SERGEANT FIRST CLASS MARVIN DALE HOLLINGSWORTH

 Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I would like to take a moment to 
pay tribute to SFC Marvin Dale Hollingsworth who passed away on June 
16. Marvin was born January 9, 1925, in

[[Page S3829]]

Cambridge, IA, and was raised in Cedar Rapids, IA. He enlisted in the 
Army in July 1943 and served nearly 20 years.
  During his military service, Marvin Hollingsworth saw combat in World 
War II and during the Korean war. He served overseas in France, 
Northern Africa, Japan, Korea, Germany, and the Marshall Islands and 
Kwajalein Islands, as well as being stationed in many parts of the 
United States during his military career.
  Marvin was on Active Duty at the Oklahoma Military Academy in 
Claremore as the top sergeant on the academy's command staff. After his 
third year, he was recognized with an officer's saber by the cadre, 
presented upon his retirement. In 1966, he began his 21-year civil 
service career in Cedar Rapids with the 73rd Combat Field Hospital Unit 
where he trained new recruits, mentored staff, and worked in 
administration. A 10-foot portrait of him at that mobile medical Army 
unit is displayed at the National Guard--Army Reserve Center in Cedar 
Rapids. He received numerous accommodations for excellence in his 
career of service to his country, including the American Defense 
Service Medal, European-African-Middle Eastern Campaign Medal with 
three Stars, World War II Victory Medal, United Nations Service Medal, 
Korean Service Medal, and Good Conduct Medal with Four Knots.
  As Americans, we owe our freedom to generations of selfless patriots 
like Marvin Hollingsworth who have been willing to risk life and limb 
in service to their country. The fact that he continued to serve his 
country throughout his life is inspirational. I am proud to be able to 
pay tribute to this son of Iowa and great American, Marvin 
Hollingsworth.

                          ____________________



