

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 88 (Monday, May 22, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 88 (Monday, May 22, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3063]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   TRIBUTE TO GENERAL DANIEL B. ALLYN

  Mr. REED. Mr. President, I would like to recognize GEN Daniel B. 
Allyn for his exemplary dedication to duty and service to the U.S. Army 
and to our Nation. For the last 3 years, he has served as the 35th Vice 
Chief of Staff of the Army and is planning to retire next month.
  General Allyn is a fellow New Englander from Berwick, ME. He was 
commissioned as an infantry officer from the U.S. Military Academy at 
West Point in 1981. General Allyn and his family were also fortunate to 
make a midcareer return to New England while he was a student at the 
Naval War College in Newport, RI.
  General Allyn has commanded troops from the platoon through corps 
level and served as commander of U.S. Army Forces Command, along with 
myriad other staff assignments. He served an overseas assignment in 
Korea and operational deployments for Operation Urgent Fury in Grenada, 
two peacekeeping deployments to the Sinai Peninsula in Egypt, Operation 
Just Cause in Panama, Operation Desert Storm in Saudi Arabia, Operation 
Desert Spring in Kuwait, two tours in support of Operation Iraqi 
Freedom, Operation Unified Response in Haiti, and one tour in 
Afghanistan in support of Operation Enduring Freedom.
  During a recent interview, General Allyn reflected on his time in 
uniform by saying ``the only legacy we leave behind is the leaders that 
we develop on our watch.'' The U.S. Army is fortunate to have leaders 
like General Allyn, and those who have served under him have no doubt 
benefitted immeasurably from the mentorship he has provided. We should 
all be thankful for the generations of Army leaders who will follow in 
his footsteps and, in so doing, positively contribute to the security 
of our nation.
  On behalf of a grateful nation, I join my colleagues today in 
recognizing and commending GEN Daniel B. Allyn for over 36 years of 
service to our country. We wish Dan and his wife, Debbie, the very best 
in the years to come.

                          ____________________



