

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 89 (Tuesday, May 23, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 89 (Tuesday, May 23, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3092-S3093]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




          35TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE MARGARET CHASE SMITH LIBRARY

  Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, in 1973, when Senator Margaret Chase 
Smith returned to private life and her hometown of Skowhegan, ME, she 
brought with her hundreds of thousands of documents, photographs, 
recordings, and memorabilia accumulated during her remarkable 33 years 
of public service. Nine years later, in 1982, with the support and 
encouragement of her many friends and admirers, her dream of 
establishing a library was realized. Today I wish to commemorate the 
35th anniversary of the Margaret Chase Smith Library.
  The Margaret Chase Smith Library is one of our Nation's premier 
freestanding congressional libraries, a priceless archive and museum, 
and an invaluable educational center. From the very start, it was 
Senator Smith's wish for the library to be more than a storehouse of 
papers and a collection of mementos. She wanted it to be a place of 
aspirations, an institution where students would be inspired to public 
service. She wanted it to be a source of insight and information for 
historical scholarship from the perspective of a historic leader. Just 
as important, she wanted it to be a place where citizens would come 
together to discuss important policy issues in an atmosphere of 
civility and respect.
  Senator Smith did more than wish for those things; she worked to 
bring them about. From opening day in August of 1982 until shortly 
before her passing in 1995, she presided over the facility, meeting 
with schoolchildren, researchers, policymakers, and engaged citizens. 
The library as it exists today stands on the foundation of a great 
leader's commitment to service.
  This great accomplishment is the work of many hands. Outstanding 
directors, dedicated staff, an exceptional board of directors, 
Northwood University, the Margaret Chase Smith Policy

[[Page S3093]]

Center at the University of Maine, the Margaret Chase Smith Foundation, 
and Senator Smith's close friend and adviser, Merton Henry, have worked 
together in a collaborative spirit that pays the highest tribute to 
Senator Smith and her legacy.
  That legacy is, above all, a reminder of the obligation we all share 
to uphold the values and ideals of our Nation. Thanks to the Margaret 
Chase Smith Library, that message remains strong. I congratulate its 
staff and many supporters on this 35th anniversary and know that this 
library will continue to inspire us for generations to come.

                          ____________________



