

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 85 (Wednesday, May 17, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 85 (Wednesday, May 17, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4233]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  WELCOMING RABBI THOMAS A. LOUCCHEIM

  The SPEAKER. Without objection, the gentlewoman from Arizona (Ms. 
McSally) is recognized for 1 minute.
  There was no objection.
  Ms. McSALLY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor Rabbi Thomas 
Louccheim, who led us in the opening prayer. He is a rabbi at the 
Congregation Or Chadash in Tucson, Arizona. Rabbi Louccheim moved to 
Tucson with his wife, Marcia, in 1989 and has been a pillar in our 
community ever since.
  Having served as a rabbi at Temple Emanu-El and as an executive for 
Handmaker Hospice, he is a strong advocate for peace and religious 
harmony. He worked closely with the Muslim community in the aftermath 
of September 11 and has continued to promote understanding by 
organizing annual Muslim-Jewish peace walks.
  He founded the first Jewish-Christian-Muslim Scriptural study group 
in our community and has contributed to interfaith literature. In a 
world where religion too often divides us, Rabbi Louccheim has shown 
that we are all stronger together.
  Rabbi Louchheim's influence extends past southeastern Arizona. In 
fact, his influence reaches beyond this Earth. The rabbi is a namesake 
for the only space object in the universe named after a rabbi, Asteroid 
9584 Louccheim.
  I was honored to join Rabbi Louccheim in a Holocaust Remembrance walk 
last year. I have personally witnessed his compassion and leadership in 
the faith community in southeastern Arizona. I am honored to welcome 
him to the House of Representatives today and to personally thank him 
for offering this morning's prayer.

                          ____________________



