

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 77 (Thursday, May 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 77 (Thursday, May 4, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2772]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 RECOGNIZING RED RIVER BREWING COMPANY

 Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, as a member of the Small Business 
Committee, it is my pleasure to recognize Red River Brewing Company 
from Shreveport, LA, as the Small Business of the Day for National 
Small Business Week. Small businesses like Red River Brewing Company 
are the backbone of this country. According to the U.S. Small Business 
Administration, U.S. small businesses employed 56.8 million people--or 
48 percent of the private workforce in 2013. Louisiana small businesses 
employed 903,281 people, which made up 53.5 percent of the private 
workforce.
  Red River Brewing Company, founded by entrepreneurs Jared Beville, 
Robert McGuire, and Beau Raines, began like many great small businesses 
do: as a hobby in Jared's garage. The group decided to turn their home 
brewing hobby into a business in the fall of 2013, becoming the first 
brewery in Shreveport since Prohibition. Red River is now a thriving 
small business that employs more than a dozen employees and offers 
locally brewed craft beer to the people of Shreveport, LA, and beyond. 
What makes their beer unique is the Louisiana twist they put on their 
products. The beer is designed to be indicative of the culture and 
climate of Louisiana. In addition, Red River often names their beers 
after the cultural and historic aspects of Louisiana. Session 18 IPA, 
for example, got its name from Louisiana being the 18th State in the 
United States.
  The fruition of hard work and passion has been the catalyst for many 
small businesses around the country, including Red River Brewing 
Company. Those who are able to create successful small businesses 
create economic stability for their families and their communities, and 
in doing so, they are carrying out the American dream. I would like to 
extend my sincerest congratulations to Red River Brewing Company on 
being recognized during the 2017 National Small Business Week. You make 
our great State proud, and I look forward to seeing your future 
success.

                          ____________________



