

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 100 (Tuesday, June 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 100 (Tuesday, June 13, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3428-S3440]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           ORDER OF PROCEDURE

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the 
McConnell second-degree amendment No. 233 be withdrawn; that the 
pending cloture motion with respect to amendment No. 232 be withdrawn; 
that the amendment be modified with the technical changes at the desk; 
and that at 2 p.m., Wednesday, June 14, the Senate vote on adoption of 
the McConnell for Crapo amendment No. 232, as modified, with no 
intervening action or debate and no second-degree amendments in order 
to amendment No. 232 prior to the vote; finally, that following leader 
remarks on Wednesday, June 14, the time until 2 p.m. be equally divided 
in the usual form.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I will not object, but I reserve the 
right to object.
  First, I want to thank the majority leader, as well as Senators 
Corker, Cardin, Crapo, and Brown. This is another example of how we can 
work together on issues we agree on. I am very proud of this bill. I 
think it will do a lot of good in both directions--in the Iran 
direction and particularly in the Russia direction. The lack of trust 
of Mr. Putin on both sides of the aisle here is paramount. Now this 
says that these sanctions will stay in place unless Congress 
disapproves them and adds some new sanctions--both good things. I hope 
the House will pass the bill without change and send it to the 
President's desk.

[[Page S3429]]

  With that, I withdraw any objection and again thank the majority 
leader for the cooperation we have had.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The amendment (No. 232), as modified, is as follows:

       On page 33, line 7, strike ``subsection (a)'' and insert 
     ``subsection (b)''.

       On page 33, line 15, strike ``subsection (a)'' and insert 
     ``subsection (b)''.

       On page 47, line 18, strike ``The President'' and insert 
     ``Except as provided in subsection (b), the President''.

       On page 47, line 22, insert ``(other than subsection (b))'' 
     after ``this Act''.

       At the end, add the following:

    TITLE II--SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION AND 
               COMBATING TERRORISM AND ILLICIT FINANCING

     SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE.

       This title may be cited as the ``Countering Russian 
     Influence in Europe and Eurasia Act of 2017''.

 Subtitle A--Sanctions and Other Measures With Respect to the Russian 
                               Federation

     SEC. 211. FINDINGS.

       Congress makes the following findings:
       (1) On March 6, 2014, President Barack Obama issued 
     Executive Order 13660 (79 Fed. Reg. 13493; relating to 
     blocking property of certain persons contributing to the 
     situation in Ukraine), which authorizes the Secretary of the 
     Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, to 
     impose sanctions on those determined to be undermining 
     democratic processes and institutions in Ukraine or 
     threatening the peace, security, stability, sovereignty, and 
     territorial integrity of Ukraine. President Obama 
     subsequently issued Executive Order 13661 (79 Fed. Reg. 
     15535; relating to blocking property of additional persons 
     contributing to the situation in Ukraine) and Executive Order 
     13662 (79 Fed. Reg. 16169; relating to blocking property of 
     additional persons contributing to the situation in Ukraine) 
     to expand sanctions on certain persons contributing to the 
     situation in Ukraine.
       (2) On December 18, 2014, the Ukraine Freedom Support Act 
     of 2014 was enacted (Public Law 113-272; 22 U.S.C. 8921 et 
     seq.), which includes provisions directing the President to 
     impose sanctions on foreign persons that the President 
     determines to be entities owned or controlled by the 
     Government of the Russian Federation or nationals of the 
     Russian Federation that manufacture, sell, transfer, or 
     otherwise provide certain defense articles into Syria.
       (3) On April 1, 2015, President Obama issued Executive 
     Order 13694 (80 Fed. Reg. 18077; relating to blocking the 
     property of certain persons engaging in significant malicious 
     cyber-enabled activities), which authorizes the Secretary of 
     the Treasury, in consultation with the Attorney General and 
     the Secretary of State, to impose sanctions on persons 
     determined to be engaged in malicious cyber-hacking.
       (4) On July 26, 2016, President Obama approved a 
     Presidential Policy Directive on United States Cyber Incident 
     Coordination, which states, ``certain cyber incidents that 
     have significant impacts on an entity, our national security, 
     or the broader economy require a unique approach to response 
     efforts''.
       (5) On December 29, 2016, President Obama issued an annex 
     to Executive Order 13694, which authorized sanctions on the 
     following entities and individuals:
       (A) The Main Intelligence Directorate (also known as 
     Glavnoe Razvedyvatel'noe Upravlenie or the GRU) in Moscow, 
     Russian Federation.
       (B) The Federal Security Service (also known as Federalnaya 
     Sluzhba Bezopasnosti or the FSB) in Moscow, Russian 
     Federation.
       (C) The Special Technology Center (also known as STLC, Ltd. 
     Special Technology Center St. Petersburg) in St. Petersburg, 
     Russian Federation.
       (D) Zorsecurity (also known as Esage Lab) in Moscow, 
     Russian Federation.
       (E) The autonomous noncommercial organization known as the 
     Professional Association of Designers of Data Processing 
     Systems (also known as ANO PO KSI) in Moscow, Russian 
     Federation.
       (F) Igor Valentinovich Korobov.
       (G) Sergey Aleksandrovich Gizunov.
       (H) Igor Olegovich Kostyukov.
       (I) Vladimir Stepanovich Alexseyev.
       (6) On January 6, 2017, an assessment of the United States 
     intelligence community entitled, ``Assessing Russian 
     Activities and Intentions in Recent U.S. Elections'' stated, 
     ``Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered an influence 
     campaign in 2016 aimed at the United States presidential 
     election.'' The assessment warns that ``Moscow will apply 
     lessons learned from its Putin-ordered campaign aimed at the 
     U.S. Presidential election to future influence efforts 
     worldwide, including against U.S. allies and their election 
     processes''.

     SEC. 212. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

       It is the sense of Congress that the President--
       (1) should engage to the fullest extent possible with 
     partner governments with regard to closing loopholes, 
     including the allowance of extended prepayment for the 
     delivery of goods and commodities and other loopholes, in 
     multilateral and unilateral restrictive measures against the 
     Russian Federation, with the aim of maximizing alignment of 
     those measures; and
       (2) should increase efforts to vigorously enforce 
     compliance with sanctions in place as of the date of the 
     enactment of this Act with respect to the Russian Federation 
     in response to the crisis in eastern Ukraine, cyber 
     intrusions and attacks, and human rights violators in the 
     Russian Federation.

 PART I--CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW OF SANCTIONS IMPOSED WITH RESPECT TO THE 
                           RUSSIAN FEDERATION

     SEC. 215. SHORT TITLE.

       The part may be cited as the ``Russia Sanctions Review Act 
     of 2017''.

     SEC. 216. CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW OF CERTAIN ACTIONS RELATING TO 
                   SANCTIONS IMPOSED WITH RESPECT TO THE RUSSIAN 
                   FEDERATION.

       (a) Submission to Congress of Proposed Action.--
       (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
     law, before taking any action described in paragraph (2), the 
     President shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
     committees and leadership a report that describes the 
     proposed action and the reasons for that action.
       (2) Actions described.--
       (A) In general.--An action described in this paragraph is--
       (i) an action to terminate the application of any sanctions 
     described in subparagraph (B);
       (ii) with respect to sanctions described in subparagraph 
     (B) imposed by the President with respect to a person, an 
     action to waive the application of those sanctions with 
     respect to that person; or
       (iii) a licensing action that significantly alters United 
     States' foreign policy with regard to the Russian Federation.
       (B) Sanctions described.--The sanctions described in this 
     subparagraph are--
       (i) sanctions provided for under--

       (I) this title or any provision of law amended by this 
     title, including the Executive Orders codified under section 
     222;
       (II) the Support for the Sovereignty, Integrity, Democracy, 
     and Economic Stability of Ukraine Act of 2014 (22 U.S.C. 8901 
     et seq.); or
       (III) the Ukraine Freedom Support Act of 2014 (22 U.S.C. 
     8921 et seq.); and

       (ii) the prohibition on access to the properties of the 
     Government of the Russian Federation located in Maryland and 
     New York that the President ordered vacated on December 29, 
     2016.
       (3) Description of type of action.--Each report submitted 
     under paragraph (1) with respect to an action described in 
     paragraph (2) shall include a description of whether the 
     action--
       (A) is not intended to significantly alter United States' 
     foreign policy with regard to the Russian Federation; or
       (B) is intended to significantly alter United States' 
     foreign policy with regard to the Russian Federation.
       (4) Inclusion of additional matter.--
       (A) In general.--Each report submitted under paragraph (1) 
     that relates to an action that is intended to achieve a 
     reciprocal diplomatic outcome shall include a description 
     of--
       (i) the anticipated reciprocal diplomatic outcome;
       (ii) the anticipated effect of the action on the national 
     security interests of the United States; and
       (iii) the policy objectives for which the sanctions 
     affected by the action were initially imposed.
       (B) Requests from banking and financial services 
     committees.--The Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
     Affairs of the Senate or the Committee on Financial Services 
     of the House of Representatives may request the submission to 
     the Committee of the matter described in clauses (ii) and 
     (iii) of subparagraph (A) with respect to a report submitted 
     under paragraph (1) that relates to an action that is not 
     intended to achieve a reciprocal diplomatic outcome.
       (b) Period for Review by Congress.--
       (1) In general.--During the period of 30 calendar days 
     beginning on the date on which the President submits a report 
     under subsection (a)(1)--
       (A) in the case of a report that relates to an action that 
     is not intended to achieve a reciprocal diplomatic outcome, 
     the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the 
     Senate and the Committee on Financial Services of the House 
     of Representatives should, as appropriate, hold hearings and 
     briefings and otherwise obtain information in order to fully 
     review the report; and
       (B) in the case of a report that relates to an action that 
     is intended to achieve a reciprocal diplomatic outcome, the 
     Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives 
     should, as appropriate, hold hearings and briefings and 
     otherwise obtain information in order to fully review the 
     report.
       (2) Exception.--The period for congressional review under 
     paragraph (1) of a report required to be submitted under 
     subsection (a)(1) shall be 60 calendar days if the report is 
     submitted on or after July 10 and on or before September 7 in 
     any calendar year.
       (3) Limitation on actions during initial congressional 
     review period.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     during the period for congressional review provided for under 
     paragraph (1) of a report submitted under subsection (a)(1) 
     proposing an action described in subsection (a)(2), including 
     any

[[Page S3430]]

     additional period for such review as applicable under the 
     exception provided in paragraph (2), the President may not 
     take that action unless a joint resolution of approval with 
     respect to that action is enacted in accordance with 
     subsection (c).
       (4) Limitation on actions during presidential consideration 
     of a joint resolution of disapproval.--Notwithstanding any 
     other provision of law, if a joint resolution of disapproval 
     relating to a report submitted under subsection (a)(1) 
     proposing an action described in subsection (a)(2) passes 
     both Houses of Congress in accordance with subsection (c), 
     the President may not take that action for a period of 12 
     calendar days after the date of passage of the joint 
     resolution of disapproval.
       (5) Limitation on actions during congressional 
     reconsideration of a joint resolution of disapproval.--
     Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if a joint 
     resolution of disapproval relating to a report submitted 
     under subsection (a)(1) proposing an action described in 
     subsection (a)(2) passes both Houses of Congress in 
     accordance with subsection (c), and the President vetoes the 
     joint resolution, the President may not take that action for 
     a period of 10 calendar days after the date of the 
     President's veto.
       (6) Effect of enactment of a joint resolution of 
     disapproval.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if 
     a joint resolution of disapproval relating to a report 
     submitted under subsection (a)(1) proposing an action 
     described in subsection (a)(2) is enacted in accordance with 
     subsection (c), the President may not take that action.
       (c) Joint Resolutions of Disapproval or Approval Defined.--
     In this subsection:
       (1) Joint resolution of approval.--The term ``joint 
     resolution of approval'' means only a joint resolution of 
     either House of Congress--
       (A) the title of which is as follows: ``A joint resolution 
     approving the President's proposal to take an action relating 
     to the application of certain sanctions with respect to the 
     Russian Federation.''; and
       (B) the sole matter after the resolving clause of which is 
     the following: ``Congress approves of the action relating to 
     the application of sanctions imposed with respect to the 
     Russian Federation proposed by the President in the report 
     submitted to Congress under section 216(a)(1) of the Russia 
     Sanctions Review Act of 2017 on _______ relating to 
     ________.'', with the first blank space being filled with the 
     appropriate date and the second blank space being filled with 
     a short description of the proposed action.
       (2) Joint resolution of disapproval.--The term ``joint 
     resolution of disapproval'' means only a joint resolution of 
     either House of Congress--
       (A) the title of which is as follows: ``A joint resolution 
     disapproving the President's proposal to take an action 
     relating to the application of certain sanctions with respect 
     to the Russian Federation.''; and
       (B) the sole matter after the resolving clause of which is 
     the following: ``Congress disapproves of the action relating 
     to the application of sanctions imposed with respect to the 
     Russian Federation proposed by the President in the report 
     submitted to Congress under section 216(a)(1) of the Russia 
     Sanctions Review Act of 2017 on _______ relating to 
     ________.'', with the first blank space being filled with the 
     appropriate date and the second blank space being filled with 
     a short description of the proposed action.
       (3) Introduction.--During the period of 30 calendar days 
     provided for under subsection (b)(1), including any 
     additional period as applicable under the exception provided 
     in subsection (b)(2), a joint resolution of approval or joint 
     resolution of disapproval may be introduced--
       (A) in the House of Representatives, by the majority leader 
     or the minority leader; and
       (B) in the Senate, by the majority leader (or the majority 
     leader's designee) or the minority leader (or the minority 
     leader's designee).
       (4) Floor consideration in house of representatives.--
       (A) Reporting and discharge.--If a committee of the House 
     of Representatives to which a joint resolution of approval or 
     joint resolution of disapproval has been referred has not 
     reported the joint resolution within 10 calendar days after 
     the date of referral, that committee shall be discharged from 
     further consideration of the joint resolution.
       (B) Proceeding to consideration.--Beginning on the third 
     legislative day after each committee to which a joint 
     resolution of approval or joint resolution of disapproval has 
     been referred reports the joint resolution to the House or 
     has been discharged from further consideration of the joint 
     resolution, it shall be in order to move to proceed to 
     consider the joint resolution in the House. All points of 
     order against the motion are waived. Such a motion shall not 
     be in order after the House has disposed of a motion to 
     proceed on the joint resolution. The previous question shall 
     be considered as ordered on the motion to its adoption 
     without intervening motion. The motion shall not be 
     debatable. A motion to reconsider the vote by which the 
     motion is disposed of shall not be in order.
       (C) Consideration.--The joint resolution of approval or 
     joint resolution of disapproval shall be considered as read. 
     All points of order against the joint resolution and against 
     its consideration are waived. The previous question shall be 
     considered as ordered on the joint resolution to final 
     passage without intervening motion except 2 hours of debate 
     equally divided and controlled by the sponsor of the joint 
     resolution (or a designee) and an opponent. A motion to 
     reconsider the vote on passage of the joint resolution shall 
     not be in order.
       (5) Consideration in the senate.--
       (A) Committee referral.--A joint resolution of approval or 
     joint resolution of disapproval introduced in the Senate 
     shall be--
       (i) referred to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
     Urban Affairs if the joint resolution relates to a report 
     under section 216A3 that is described as an action that is 
     not intended to significantly alter United States foreign 
     policy with regard to the Russian Federation, and
       (ii) referred to the Committee on Foreign Relations if the 
     joint resolution relates to a report under section 216A3 that 
     is described as an action that is intended to significantly 
     alter United States foreign policy with respect to the 
     Russian Federation.
       (B) Reporting and discharge.--If the committee to which a 
     joint resolution of approval or joint resolution of 
     disapproval was referred has not reported the joint 
     resolution within 10 calendar days after the date of referral 
     of the joint resolution, that committee shall be discharged 
     from further consideration of the joint resolution and the 
     joint resolution shall be placed on the appropriate calendar.
       (C) Proceeding to consideration.--Notwithstanding Rule XXII 
     of the Standing Rules of the Senate, it is in order at any 
     time after the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
     Affairs or the Committee on Foreign Relations, as the case 
     may be, reports a joint resolution of approval or joint 
     resolution of disapproval to the Senate or has been 
     discharged from consideration of such a joint resolution 
     (even though a previous motion to the same effect has been 
     disagreed to) to move to proceed to the consideration of the 
     joint resolution, and all points of order against the joint 
     resolution (and against consideration of the joint 
     resolution) are waived. The motion to proceed is not 
     debatable. The motion is not subject to a motion to postpone. 
     A motion to reconsider the vote by which the motion is agreed 
     to or disagreed to shall not be in order.
       (D) Rulings of the chair on procedure.--Appeals from the 
     decisions of the Chair relating to the application of the 
     rules of the Senate, as the case may be, to the procedure 
     relating to a joint resolution of approval or joint 
     resolution of disapproval shall be decided without debate.
       (E) Consideration of veto messages.--Debate in the Senate 
     of any veto message with respect to a joint resolution of 
     approval or joint resolution of disapproval, including all 
     debatable motions and appeals in connection with the joint 
     resolution, shall be limited to 10 hours, to be equally 
     divided between, and controlled by, the majority leader and 
     the minority leader or their designees.
       (6) Rules relating to senate and house of 
     representatives.--
       (A) Coordination with action by other house.--If, before 
     the passage by one House of a joint resolution of approval or 
     joint resolution of disapproval of that House, that House 
     receives an identical joint resolution from the other House, 
     the following procedures shall apply:
       (i) The joint resolution of the other House shall not be 
     referred to a committee.
       (ii) With respect to the joint resolution of the House 
     receiving the joint resolution from the other House--

       (I) the procedure in that House shall be the same as if no 
     joint resolution had been received from the other House; but
       (II) the vote on passage shall be on the joint resolution 
     of the other House.

       (B) Treatment of a joint resolution of other house.--If one 
     House fails to introduce a joint resolution of approval or 
     joint resolution of disapproval, a joint resolution of 
     approval or joint resolution of disapproval of the other 
     House shall be entitled to expedited procedures in that House 
     under this subsection.
       (C) Treatment of house joint resolution in senate.--If, 
     following passage of a joint resolution of approval or joint 
     resolution of disapproval in the Senate, the Senate receives 
     an identical joint resolution from the House of 
     Representatives, that joint resolution shall be placed on the 
     appropriate Senate calendar.
       (D) Application to revenue measures.--The provisions of 
     this paragraph shall not apply in the House of 
     Representatives to a joint resolution of approval or joint 
     resolution of disapproval that is a revenue measure.
       (7) Rules of house of representatives and senate.--This 
     subsection is enacted by Congress--
       (A) as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the Senate 
     and the House of Representatives, respectively, and as such 
     is deemed a part of the rules of each House, respectively, 
     but applicable only with respect to the procedure to be 
     followed in that House in the case of a joint resolution of 
     approval or joint resolution of disapproval, and supersedes 
     other rules only to the extent that it is inconsistent with 
     such rules; and
       (B) with full recognition of the constitutional right of 
     either House to change the rules (so far as relating to the 
     procedure of that House) at any time, in the same manner, and 
     to the same extent as in the case of any other rule of that 
     House.

[[Page S3431]]

       (d) Appropriate Congressional Committees and Leadership 
     Defined.--In this section, the term ``appropriate 
     congressional committees and leadership'' means--
       (1) the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, 
     the Committee on Foreign Relations, and the majority and 
     minority leaders of the Senate; and
       (2) the Committee on Financial Services, the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs, and the Speaker, the majority leader, and 
     the minority leader of the House of Representatives.

       PART II--SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION

     SEC. 221. DEFINITIONS.

       In this part:
       (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
     ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
       (A) the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, 
     the Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Committee on 
     Finance of the Senate; and
       (B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on 
     Financial Services, and the Committee on Ways and Means of 
     the House of Representatives.
       (2) Good.--The term ``good'' has the meaning given that 
     term in section 16 of the Export Administration Act of 1979 
     (50 U.S.C. 4618) (as continued in effect pursuant to the 
     International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 
     et seq.)).
       (3) International financial institution.--The term 
     ``international financial institution'' has the meaning given 
     that term in section 1701(c) of the International Financial 
     Institutions Act (22 U.S.C. 262r(c)).
       (4) Knowingly.--The term ``knowingly'', with respect to 
     conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has 
     actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the 
     circumstance, or the result.
       (5) Person.--The term ``person'' means an individual or 
     entity.
       (6) United states person.--The term ``United States 
     person'' means--
       (A) a United States citizen or an alien lawfully admitted 
     for permanent residence to the United States; or
       (B) an entity organized under the laws of the United States 
     or of any jurisdiction within the United States, including a 
     foreign branch of such an entity.

     SEC. 222. CODIFICATION OF SANCTIONS RELATING TO THE RUSSIAN 
                   FEDERATION.

       (a) Codification.--United States sanctions provided for in 
     Executive Order 13660 (79 Fed. Reg. 13493; relating to 
     blocking property of certain persons contributing to the 
     situation in Ukraine), Executive Order 13661 (79 Fed. Reg. 
     15535; relating to blocking property of additional persons 
     contributing to the situation in Ukraine), Executive Order 
     13662 (79 Fed. Reg. 16169; relating to blocking property of 
     additional persons contributing to the situation in Ukraine), 
     Executive Order 13685 (79 Fed. Reg. 77357; relating to 
     blocking property of certain persons and prohibiting certain 
     transactions with respect to the Crimea region of Ukraine), 
     Executive Order 13694 (80 Fed. Reg. 18077; relating to 
     blocking the property of certain persons engaging in 
     significant malicious cyber-enabled activities), and 
     Executive Order 13757 (82 Fed. Reg. 1; relating to taking 
     additional steps to address the national emergency with 
     respect to significant malicious cyber-enabled activities), 
     as in effect on the day before the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, including with respect to all persons sanctioned 
     under such Executive Orders, shall remain in effect except as 
     provided in subsection (b).
       (b) Termination of Certain Sanctions.--Subject to section 
     216, the President may terminate the application of sanctions 
     described in subsection (a) that are imposed on a person in 
     connection with activity conducted by the person if the 
     President submits to the appropriate congressional committees 
     a notice that--
       (1) the person is not engaging in the activity that was the 
     basis for the sanctions or has taken significant verifiable 
     steps toward stopping the activity; and
       (2) the President has received reliable assurances that the 
     person will not knowingly engage in activity subject to 
     sanctions described in subsection (a) in the future.
       (c) Application of New Cyber Sanctions.--The President may 
     waive the initial application under subsection (a) of 
     sanctions with respect to a person under Executive Order 
     13694 or 13757 only if the President submits to the 
     appropriate congressional committees--
       (1) a written determination that the waiver--
       (A) is in the vital national security interests of the 
     United States; or
       (B) will further the enforcement of this title; and
       (2) a certification that the Government of the Russian 
     Federation has made significant efforts to reduce the number 
     and intensity of cyber intrusions conducted by that 
     Government.
       (d) Application of New Ukraine-related Sanctions.--The 
     President may waive the initial application under subsection 
     (a) of sanctions with respect to a person under Executive 
     Order 13660, 13661, 13662, or 13685 only if the President 
     submits to the appropriate congressional committees--
       (1) a written determination that the waiver--
       (A) is in the vital national security interests of the 
     United States; or
       (B) will further the enforcement of this title; and
       (2) a certification that the Government of the Russian 
     Federation is taking steps to implement the Minsk Agreement 
     to address the ongoing conflict in eastern Ukraine, signed in 
     Minsk, Belarus, on February 11, 2015, by the leaders of 
     Ukraine, Russia, France, and Germany, the Minsk Protocol, 
     which was agreed to on September 5, 2014, and any successor 
     agreements that are agreed to by the Government of Ukraine.

     SEC. 223. MODIFICATION OF IMPLEMENTATION OF EXECUTIVE ORDER 
                   13662.

       (a) Determination That Certain Entities Are Subject to 
     Sanctions.--The Secretary of the Treasury may determine that 
     a person meets one or more of the criteria in section 1(a) of 
     Executive Order 13662 if that person is a state-owned entity 
     operating in the railway, shipping, or metals and mining 
     sector of the economy of the Russian Federation.
       (b) Modification of Directive 1 With Respect to the 
     Financial Services Sector of the Russian Federation 
     Economy.--The Director of the Office of Foreign Assets 
     Control shall modify Directive 1 (as amended), dated 
     September 12, 2014, issued by the Office of Foreign Assets 
     Control under Executive Order 13662, or any successor 
     directive, to ensure that the directive prohibits the conduct 
     by United States persons or persons within the United States 
     of all transactions in, provision of financing for, and other 
     dealings in new debt of longer than 14 days maturity or new 
     equity of persons determined to be subject to the directive, 
     their property, or their interests in property.
       (c) Modification of Directive 2 With Respect to the Energy 
     Sector of the Russian Federation Economy.--The Director of 
     the Office of Foreign Assets Control shall modify Directive 2 
     (as amended), dated September 12, 2014, issued by the Office 
     of Foreign Assets Control under Executive Order 13662, or any 
     successor directive, to ensure that the directive prohibits 
     the conduct by United States persons or persons within the 
     United States of all transactions in, provision of financing 
     for, and other dealings in new debt of longer than 30 days 
     maturity of persons determined to be subject to the 
     directive, their property, or their interests in property.
       (d) Modification of Directive 4.--The Director of the 
     Office of Foreign Assets Control shall modify Directive 4, 
     dated September 12, 2014, issued by the Office of Foreign 
     Assets Control under Executive Order 13662, or any successor 
     directive, to ensure that the directive prohibits the 
     provision, exportation, or reexportation, directly or 
     indirectly, by United States persons or persons within the 
     United States, of goods, services (except for financial 
     services), or technology in support of exploration or 
     production for deepwater, Arctic offshore, or shale 
     projects--
       (1) that have the potential to produce oil;
       (2) in which a Russian energy firm is involved; and
       (3) that involve any person determined to be subject to the 
     directive or the property or interests in property of such a 
     person.

     SEC. 224. IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO ACTIVITIES 
                   OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION UNDERMINING 
                   CYBERSECURITY.

       (a) In General.--On and after the date that is 60 days 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act, the President 
     shall--
       (1) impose the sanctions described in subsection (b) with 
     respect to any person that the President determines--
       (A) knowingly engages in significant activities undermining 
     cybersecurity against any person, including a democratic 
     institution, or government on behalf of the Government of the 
     Russian Federation; or
       (B) is owned or controlled by, or acts or purports to act 
     for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, a person 
     described in subparagraph (A);
       (2) impose 5 or more of the sanctions described in section 
     235 with respect to any person that the President determines 
     knowingly materially assists, sponsors, or provides 
     financial, material, or technological support for, or goods 
     or services (except financial services) in support of, an 
     activity described in paragraph (1)(A); and
       (3) impose 3 or more of the sanctions described in section 
     4(c) of the of the Ukraine Freedom Support Act of 2014 (22 
     U.S.C. 8923(c)) with respect to any person that the President 
     determines knowingly provides financial services in support 
     of an activity described in paragraph (1)(A).
       (b) Sanctions Described.--The sanctions described in this 
     subsection are the following:
       (1) Asset blocking.--The exercise of all powers granted to 
     the President by the International Emergency Economic Powers 
     Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) to the extent necessary to block 
     and prohibit all transactions in all property and interests 
     in property of a person determined by the President to be 
     subject to subsection (a)(1) if such property and interests 
     in property are in the United States, come within the United 
     States, or are or come within the possession or control of a 
     United States person.
       (2) Exclusion from the united states and revocation of visa 
     or other documentation.--In the case of an alien determined 
     by the President to be subject to subsection (a)(1), denial 
     of a visa to, and exclusion from the United States of, the 
     alien, and revocation in accordance with section 221(i) of 
     the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1201(i)), of 
     any visa or other documentation of the alien.
       (c) Application of New Cyber Sanctions.--The President may 
     waive the initial application under subsection (a) of 
     sanctions with respect to a person only if the President

[[Page S3432]]

     submits to the appropriate congressional committees--
       (1) a written determination that the waiver--
       (A) is in the vital national security interests of the 
     United States; or
       (B) will further the enforcement of this title; and
       (2) a certification that the Government of the Russian 
     Federation has made significant efforts to reduce the number 
     and intensity of cyber intrusions conducted by that 
     Government.
       (d) Significant Activities Undermining Cybersecurity 
     Defined.--In this section, the term ``significant activities 
     undermining cybersecurity'' includes--
       (1) significant efforts--
       (A) to deny access to or degrade, disrupt, or destroy an 
     information and communications technology system or network; 
     or
       (B) to exfiltrate, degrade, corrupt, destroy, or release 
     information from such a system or network without 
     authorization for purposes of--
       (i) conducting influence operations; or
       (ii) causing a significant misappropriation of funds, 
     economic resources, trade secrets, personal identifications, 
     or financial information for commercial or competitive 
     advantage or private financial gain;
       (2) significant destructive malware attacks; and
       (3) significant denial of service activities.

     SEC. 225. IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS RELATING TO SPECIAL RUSSIAN 
                   CRUDE OIL PROJECTS.

       Section 4(b)(1) of the Ukraine Freedom Support Act of 2014 
     (22 U.S.C. 8923(b)(1)) is amended by striking ``on and after 
     the date that is 45 days after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, the President may impose'' and inserting ``on and 
     after the date that is 30 days after the date of the 
     enactment of the Countering Russian Influence in Europe and 
     Eurasia Act of 2017, the President shall impose, unless the 
     President determines that it is not in the national interest 
     of the United States to do so,''.

     SEC. 226. IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO RUSSIAN AND 
                   OTHER FOREIGN FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS.

       Section 5 of the Ukraine Freedom Support Act of 2014 (22 
     U.S.C. 8924) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)--
       (A) by striking ``may impose'' and inserting ``shall 
     impose, unless the President determines that it is not in the 
     national interest of the United States to do so,''; and
       (B) by striking ``on or after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act'' and inserting ``on or after the date of the 
     enactment of the Countering Russian Influence in Europe and 
     Eurasia Act of 2017''; and
       (2) in subsection (b)--
       (A) by striking ``may impose'' and inserting ``shall 
     impose, unless the President determines that it is not in the 
     national interest of the United States to do so,''; and
       (B) by striking ``on or after the date that is 180 days 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act'' and inserting 
     ``on or after the date that is 30 days after the date of the 
     enactment of the Countering Russian Influence in Europe and 
     Eurasia Act of 2017''.

     SEC. 227. MANDATORY IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO 
                   SIGNIFICANT CORRUPTION IN THE RUSSIAN 
                   FEDERATION.

       Section 9 of the Sovereignty, Integrity, Democracy, and 
     Economic Stability of Ukraine Act of 2014 (22 U.S.C. 8908(a)) 
     is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)--
       (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking ``is 
     authorized and encouraged to'' and inserting ``shall''; and
       (B) in paragraph (1)--
       (i) by striking ``President determines is'' and inserting 
     ``President determines is, on or after the date of the 
     enactment of the Countering Russian Influence in Europe and 
     Eurasia Act of 2017,''; and
       (ii) by inserting ``or elsewhere'' after ``in the Russian 
     Federation'';
       (2) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e);
       (3) in subsection (c), by striking ``The President'' and 
     inserting ``except as provided in subsection (d), the 
     President''; and
       (4) by inserting after subsection (c) the following:
       ``(d) Application of New Sanctions.--The President may 
     waive the initial application of sanctions under subsection 
     (b) with respect to a person only if the President submits to 
     the appropriate congressional committees--
       ``(1) a written determination that the waiver--
       ``(A) is in the vital national security interests of the 
     United States; or
       ``(B) will further the enforcement of this Act; and
       ``(2) a certification that the Government of the Russian 
     Federation is taking steps to implement the Minsk Agreement 
     to address the ongoing conflict in eastern Ukraine, signed in 
     Minsk, Belarus, on February 11, 2015, by the leaders of 
     Ukraine, Russia, France, and Germany, the Minsk Protocol, 
     which was agreed to on September 5, 2014, and any successor 
     agreements that are agreed to by the Government of 
     Ukraine.''.

     SEC. 228. MANDATORY IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO 
                   CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS WITH FOREIGN SANCTIONS 
                   EVADERS AND SERIOUS HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSERS IN THE 
                   RUSSIAN FEDERATION.

       (a) In General.--The Support for the Sovereignty, 
     Integrity, Democracy, and Economic Stability of Ukraine Act 
     of 2014 (22 U.S.C. 8901 et seq.) is amended by adding at the 
     end the following:

     ``SEC. 10. MANDATORY IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO 
                   CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS WITH PERSONS THAT EVADE 
                   SANCTIONS IMPOSED WITH RESPECT TO THE RUSSIAN 
                   FEDERATION.

       ``(a) In General.--The President shall impose the sanctions 
     described in subsection (b) with respect to a foreign person 
     if the President determines that the foreign person 
     knowingly, on or after the date of the enactment of the 
     Countering Russian Influence in Europe and Eurasia Act of 
     2017--
       ``(1) materially violates, attempts to violate, conspires 
     to violate, or causes a violation of any license, order, 
     regulation, or prohibition contained in or issued pursuant to 
     any covered Executive order; or
       ``(2) facilitates significant deceptive or structured 
     transactions for or on behalf of--
       ``(A) any person subject to sanctions imposed by the United 
     States with respect to the Russian Federation; or
       ``(B) any child, spouse, parent, or sibling of an 
     individual described in subparagraph (A).
       ``(b) Sanctions Described.--The sanctions described in this 
     subsection are the exercise of all powers granted to the 
     President by the International Emergency Economic Powers Act 
     (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) to the extent necessary to block and 
     prohibit all transactions in all property and interests in 
     property of a person determined by the President to be 
     subject to subsection (a) if such property and interests in 
     property are in the United States, come within the United 
     States, or are or come within the possession or control of a 
     United States person.
       ``(c) Implementation; Penalties.--
       ``(1) Implementation.--The President may exercise all 
     authorities provided to the President under sections 203 and 
     205 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 
     U.S.C. 1702 and 1704) to carry out subsection (b).
       ``(2) Penalties.--A person that violates, attempts to 
     violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of 
     subsection (b) or any regulation, license, or order issued to 
     carry out subsection (b) shall be subject to the penalties 
     set forth in subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the 
     International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) 
     to the same extent as a person that commits an unlawful act 
     described in subsection (a) of that section.
       ``(d) Application of New Sanctions.--The President may 
     waive the initial application of sanctions under subsection 
     (b) with respect to a person only if the President submits to 
     the appropriate congressional committees--
       ``(1) a written determination that the waiver--
       ``(A) is in the vital national security interests of the 
     United States; or
       ``(B) will further the enforcement of this Act;
       ``(2) in the case of sanctions imposed under this section 
     in connection with a covered Executive order described in 
     subparagraph (A), (B), (C), or (D) of subsection (f)(1), a 
     certification that the Government of the Russian Federation 
     is taking steps to implement the Minsk Agreement to address 
     the ongoing conflict in eastern Ukraine, signed in Minsk, 
     Belarus, on February 11, 2015, by the leaders of Ukraine, 
     Russia, France, and Germany, the Minsk Protocol, which was 
     agreed to on September 5, 2014, and any successor agreements 
     that are agreed to by the Government of Ukraine; and
       ``(3) in the case of sanctions imposed under this section 
     in connection with a covered Executive order described in 
     subparagraphs (E) or (F) of subsection (f)(1), a 
     certification that the Government of the Russian Federation 
     has made significant efforts to reduce the number and 
     intensity of cyber intrusions conducted by that Government.
       ``(e) Termination.--Subject to section 216 of the Russia 
     Sanctions Review Act of 2017, the President may terminate the 
     application of sanctions under subsection (b) with respect to 
     a person if the President submits to the appropriate 
     congressional committees--
       ``(1) a notice of and justification for the termination; 
     and
       ``(2) a notice that--
       ``(A) the person is not engaging in the activity that was 
     the basis for the sanctions or has taken significant 
     verifiable steps toward stopping the activity; and
       ``(B) the President has received reliable assurances that 
     the person will not knowingly engage in activity subject to 
     sanctions under subsection (a) in the future.
       ``(f) Definitions.--In this section:
       ``(1) Covered executive order.--The term `covered Executive 
     order' means any of the following:
       ``(A) Executive Order 13660 (79 Fed. Reg. 13493; relating 
     to blocking property of certain persons contributing to the 
     situation in Ukraine).
       ``(B) Executive Order 13661 (79 Fed. Reg. 15535; relating 
     to blocking property of additional persons contributing to 
     the situation in Ukraine).
       ``(C) Executive Order 13662 (79 Fed. Reg. 16169; relating 
     to blocking property of additional persons contributing to 
     the situation in Ukraine).
       ``(D) Executive Order 13685 (79 Fed. Reg. 77357; relating 
     to blocking property of certain persons and prohibiting 
     certain transactions with respect to the Crimea region of 
     Ukraine).
       ``(E) Executive Order 13694 (80 Fed. Reg. 18077; relating 
     to blocking the property of

[[Page S3433]]

     certain persons engaging in significant malicious cyber-
     enabled activities).
       ``(F) Executive Order 13757 (82 Fed. Reg. 1; relating to 
     taking additional steps to address the national emergency 
     with respect to significant malicious cyber-enabled 
     activities).
       ``(2) Foreign person.--The term `foreign person' has the 
     meaning given such term in section 595.304 of title 31, Code 
     of Federal Regulations (as in effect on the date of the 
     enactment of the Countering Russian Influence in Europe and 
     Eurasia Act of 2017).
       ``(3) Structured.--The term `structured', with respect to a 
     transaction, has the meaning given the term `structure' in 
     paragraph (xx) of section 1010.100 of title 31, Code of 
     Federal Regulations (or any corresponding similar regulation 
     or ruling).

     ``SEC. 11. MANDATORY IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO 
                   TRANSACTIONS WITH PERSONS RESPONSIBLE FOR HUMAN 
                   RIGHTS ABUSES.

       ``(a) In General.--The President shall impose the sanctions 
     described in subsection (b) with respect to a foreign person 
     if the President determines that the foreign person, based on 
     credible information, on or after the date of the enactment 
     of the Countering Russian Influence in Europe and Eurasia Act 
     of 2017--
       ``(1) is responsible for, complicit in, or responsible for 
     ordering, controlling, or otherwise directing, the commission 
     of serious human rights abuses in any territory forcibly 
     occupied or otherwise controlled by the Government of the 
     Russian Federation;
       ``(2) materially assists, sponsors, or provides financial, 
     material, or technological support for, or goods or services 
     to, a foreign person described in paragraph (1); or
       ``(3) is owned or controlled by, or acts or purports to act 
     for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, a foreign person 
     described in paragraph (1).
       ``(b) Sanctions Described.--
       ``(1) Asset blocking.--The exercise of all powers granted 
     to the President by the International Emergency Economic 
     Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) to the extent necessary 
     to block and prohibit all transactions in all property and 
     interests in property of a person determined by the President 
     to be subject to subsection (a) if such property and 
     interests in property are in the United States, come within 
     the United States, or are or come within the possession or 
     control of a United States person.
       ``(2) Exclusion from the united states and revocation of 
     visa or other documentation.--In the case of an alien 
     determined by the President to be subject to subsection (a), 
     denial of a visa to, and exclusion from the United States of, 
     the alien, and revocation in accordance with section 221(i) 
     of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1201(i)), of 
     any visa or other documentation of the alien.
       ``(c) Application of New Sanctions.--The President may 
     waive the initial application of sanctions under subsection 
     (b) with respect to a person only if the President submits to 
     the appropriate congressional committees--
       ``(1) a written determination that the waiver--
       ``(A) is in the vital national security interests of the 
     United States; or
       ``(B) will further the enforcement of this Act; and
       ``(2) a certification that the Government of the Russian 
     Federation has made efforts to reduce serious human rights 
     abuses in territory forcibly occupied or otherwise controlled 
     by that Government.
       ``(d) Implementation; Penalties.--
       ``(1) Implementation.--The President may exercise all 
     authorities provided to the President under sections 203 and 
     205 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 
     U.S.C. 1702 and 1704) to carry out subsection (b)(1).
       ``(2) Penalties.--A person that violates, attempts to 
     violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of 
     subsection (b)(1) or any regulation, license, or order issued 
     to carry out subsection (b)(1) shall be subject to the 
     penalties set forth in subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 
     of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 
     1705) to the same extent as a person that commits an unlawful 
     act described in subsection (a) of that section.
       ``(e) Termination.--Subject to section 216 of the Russia 
     Sanctions Review Act of 2017, the President may terminate the 
     application of sanctions under subsection (b) with respect to 
     a person if the President submits to the appropriate 
     congressional committees--
       ``(1) a notice of and justification for the termination; 
     and
       ``(2) a notice--
       ``(A) that--
       ``(i) the person is not engaging in the activity that was 
     the basis for the sanctions or has taken significant 
     verifiable steps toward stopping the activity; and
       ``(ii) the President has received reliable assurances that 
     the person will not knowingly engage in activity subject to 
     sanctions under subsection (a) in the future; or
       ``(B) that the President determines that insufficient basis 
     exists for the determination by the President under 
     subsection (a) with respect to the person.''.
       (b) Definition of Appropriate Congressional Committees.--
     Section 2(2) of the Support for the Sovereignty, Integrity, 
     Democracy, and Economic Stability of Ukraine Act of 2014 (22 
     U.S.C. 8901(2)) is amended--
       (1) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``the Committee on 
     Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs,'' before ``the Committee 
     on Foreign Relations''; and
       (2) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``the Committee on 
     Financial Services'' before ``the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs''.

     SEC. 229. NOTIFICATIONS TO CONGRESS UNDER UKRAINE FREEDOM 
                   SUPPORT ACT OF 2014.

       (a) Sanctions Relating to Defense and Energy Sectors of the 
     Russian Federation.--Section 4 of the Ukraine Freedom Support 
     Act of 2014 (22 U.S.C. 8923) is amended--
       (1) by redesignating subsections (g) and (h) as subsections 
     (h) and (i), respectively;
       (2) by inserting after subsection (f) the following:
       ``(g) Notifications and Certifications to Congress.--
       ``(1) Imposition of sanctions.--The President shall notify 
     the appropriate congressional committees in writing not later 
     than 15 days after imposing sanctions with respect to a 
     foreign person under subsection (a) or (b).
       ``(2) Termination of sanctions with respect to russian 
     producers, transferors, or brokers of defense articles.--
     Subject to section 216 of the Russia Sanctions Review Act of 
     2017, the President may terminate the imposition of sanctions 
     under subsection (a)(2) with respect to a foreign person if 
     the President submits to the appropriate congressional 
     committees--
       ``(A) a notice of and justification for the termination; 
     and
       ``(B) a notice that--
       ``(i) the foreign person is not engaging in the activity 
     that was the basis for the sanctions or has taken significant 
     verifiable steps toward stopping the activity; and
       ``(ii) the President has received reliable assurances that 
     the foreign person will not knowingly engage in activity 
     subject to sanctions under subsection (a)(2) in the 
     future.''; and
       (3) in subparagraph (B)(ii) of subsection (a)(3), by 
     striking ``subsection (h)'' and inserting ``subsection (i)''.
       (b) Sanctions on Russian and Other Foreign Financial 
     Institutions.--Section 5 of the Ukraine Freedom Support Act 
     of 2014 (22 U.S.C. 8924) is amended--
       (1) by redesignating subsections (e) and (f) as subsections 
     (f) and (g), respectively;
       (2) by inserting after subsection (d) the following:
       ``(e) Notification to Congress on Imposition of 
     Sanctions.--The President shall notify the appropriate 
     congressional committees in writing not later than 15 days 
     after imposing sanctions with respect to a foreign financial 
     institution under subsection (a) or (b).''; and
       (3) in subsection (g), as redesignated by paragraph (1), by 
     striking ``section 4(h)'' and inserting ``section 4(i)''.

     SEC. 230. STANDARDS FOR TERMINATION OF CERTAIN SANCTIONS WITH 
                   RESPECT TO THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION.

       (a) Sanctions Relating to Undermining the Peace, Security, 
     Stability, Sovereignty, or Territorial Integrity of 
     Ukraine.--Section 8 of the Sovereignty, Integrity, Democracy, 
     and Economic Stability of Ukraine Act of 2014 (22 U.S.C. 
     8907) is amended--
       (1) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and
       (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following:
       ``(d) Termination.--Subject to section 216 of the Russia 
     Sanctions Review Act of 2017, the President may terminate the 
     application of sanctions under subsection (b) with respect to 
     a person if the President submits to the appropriate 
     congressional committees a notice that--
       ``(1) the person is not engaging in the activity that was 
     the basis for the sanctions or has taken significant 
     verifiable steps toward stopping the activity; and
       ``(2) the President has received reliable assurances that 
     the person will not knowingly engage in activity subject to 
     sanctions under subsection (a) in the future.''.
       (b) Sanctions Relating to Corruption.--Section 9 of the 
     Sovereignty, Integrity, Democracy, and Economic Stability of 
     Ukraine Act of 2014 (22 U.S.C. 8908) is amended--
       (1) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and
       (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following:
       ``(d) Termination.--Subject to section 216 of the Russia 
     Sanctions Review Act of 2017, the President may terminate the 
     application of sanctions under subsection (b) with respect to 
     a person if the President submits to the appropriate 
     congressional committees a notice that--
       ``(1) the person is not engaging in the activity that was 
     the basis for the sanctions or has taken significant 
     verifiable steps toward stopping the activity; and
       ``(2) the President has received reliable assurances that 
     the person will not knowingly engage in activity subject to 
     sanctions under subsection (a) in the future.''.

     SEC. 231. IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO PERSONS 
                   ENGAGING IN TRANSACTIONS WITH THE INTELLIGENCE 
                   OR DEFENSE SECTORS OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE 
                   RUSSIAN FEDERATION.

       (a) In General.--On and after the date that is 180 days 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act, the President 
     shall impose 5 or more of the sanctions described in section 
     235 with respect to a person the President determines 
     knowingly, on or after such date of enactment, engages in a 
     significant

[[Page S3434]]

     transaction with a person that is part of, or operates for or 
     on behalf of, the defense or intelligence sectors of the 
     Government of the Russian Federation, including the Main 
     Intelligence Agency of the General Staff of the Armed Forces 
     of the Russian Federation or the Federal Security Service of 
     the Russian Federation.
       (b) Application of New Sanctions.--The President may waive 
     the initial application of sanctions under subsection (a) 
     with respect to a person only if the President submits to the 
     appropriate congressional committees--
       (1) a written determination that the waiver--
       (A) is in the vital national security interests of the 
     United States; or
       (B) will further the enforcement of this title; and
       (2) a certification that the Government of the Russian 
     Federation has made significant efforts to reduce the number 
     and intensity of cyber intrusions conducted by that 
     Government.

     SEC. 232. SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF 
                   PIPELINES IN THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION.

       (a) In General.--The President may impose 5 or more of the 
     sanctions described in section 235 with respect to a person 
     if the President determines that the person knowingly, on or 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act, makes an 
     investment described in subsection (b) or sells, leases, or 
     provides to the Russian Federation, for the construction of 
     Russian energy export pipelines, goods, services, technology, 
     information, or support described in subsection (c)--
       (1) any of which has a fair market value of $1,000,000 or 
     more; or
       (2) that, during a 12-month period, have an aggregate fair 
     market value of $5,000,000 or more.
       (b) Investment Described.--An investment described in this 
     subsection is an investment that directly and significantly 
     contributes to the enhancement of the ability of the Russian 
     Federation to construct energy export pipelines.
       (c) Goods, Services, Technology, Information, or Support 
     Described.--Goods, services, technology, information, or 
     support described in this subsection are goods, services, 
     technology, information, or support that could directly and 
     significantly facilitate the maintenance or expansion of the 
     construction, modernization, or repair of energy pipelines by 
     the Russian Federation.

     SEC. 233. SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO INVESTMENT IN OR 
                   FACILITATION OF PRIVATIZATION OF STATE-OWNED 
                   ASSETS BY THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION.

       (a) In General.--The President shall impose 5 or more of 
     the sanctions described in section 235 if the President 
     determines that a person, with actual knowledge, on or after 
     the date of the enactment of this Act, makes an investment of 
     $10,000,000 or more (or any combination of investments of not 
     less than $1,000,000 each, which in the aggregate equals or 
     exceeds $10,000,000 in any 12-month period), or facilitates 
     such an investment, if the investment directly and 
     significantly contributes to the ability of the Russian 
     Federation to privatize state-owned assets in a manner that 
     unjustly benefits--
       (1) officials of the Government of the Russian Federation; 
     or
       (2) close associates or family members of those officials.
       (b) Application of New Sanctions.--The President may waive 
     the initial application of sanctions under subsection (a) 
     with respect to a person only if the President submits to the 
     appropriate congressional committees--
       (1) a written determination that the waiver--
       (A) is in the vital national security interests of the 
     United States; or
       (B) will further the enforcement of this title; and
       (2) a certification that the Government of the Russian 
     Federation is taking steps to implement the Minsk Agreement 
     to address the ongoing conflict in eastern Ukraine, signed in 
     Minsk, Belarus, on February 11, 2015, by the leaders of 
     Ukraine, Russia, France, and Germany, the Minsk Protocol, 
     which was agreed to on September 5, 2014, and any successor 
     agreements that are agreed to by the Government of Ukraine.

     SEC. 234. SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO THE TRANSFER OF ARMS AND 
                   RELATED MATERIEL TO SYRIA.

       (a) Imposition of Sanctions.--
       (1) In general.--The President shall impose on a foreign 
     person the sanctions described in subsection (b) if the 
     President determines that such foreign person has, on or 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act, knowingly 
     exported, transferred, or otherwise provided to Syria 
     significant financial, material, or technological support 
     that contributes materially to the ability of the Government 
     of Syria to--
       (A) acquire or develop chemical, biological, or nuclear 
     weapons or related technologies;
       (B) acquire or develop ballistic or cruise missile 
     capabilities;
       (C) acquire or develop destabilizing numbers and types of 
     advanced conventional weapons;
       (D) acquire significant defense articles, defense services, 
     or defense information (as such terms are defined under the 
     Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.)); or
       (E) acquire items designated by the President for purposes 
     of the United States Munitions List under section 38(a)(1) of 
     the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778(a)(1)).
       (2) Applicability to other foreign persons.--The sanctions 
     described in subsection (b) shall also be imposed on any 
     foreign person that--
       (A) is a successor entity to a foreign person described in 
     paragraph (1); or
       (B) is owned or controlled by, or has acted for or on 
     behalf of, a foreign person described in paragraph (1).
       (b) Sanctions Described.--The sanctions to be imposed on a 
     foreign person described in subsection (a) are the following:
       (1) Blocking of property.--The President shall exercise all 
     powers granted by the International Emergency Economic Powers 
     Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (except that the requirements of 
     section 202 of such Act (50 U.S.C. 1701) shall not apply) to 
     the extent necessary to block and prohibit all transactions 
     in all property and interests in property of the foreign 
     person if such property and interests in property are in the 
     United States, come within the United States, or are or come 
     within the possession or control of a United States person.
       (2) Aliens ineligible for visas, admission, or parole.--
       (A) Exclusion from the united states.--If the foreign 
     person is an individual, the Secretary of State shall deny a 
     visa to, and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall exclude 
     from the United States, the foreign person.
       (B) Current visas revoked.--
       (i) In general.--The issuing consular officer, the 
     Secretary of State, or the Secretary of Homeland Security (or 
     a designee of one of such Secretaries) shall revoke any visa 
     or other entry documentation issued to the foreign person 
     regardless of when issued.
       (ii) Effect of revocation.--A revocation under clause (i) 
     shall take effect immediately and shall automatically cancel 
     any other valid visa or entry documentation that is in the 
     possession of the foreign person.
       (c) Waiver.--Subject to section 216, the President may 
     waive the application of sanctions under subsection (b) with 
     respect to a person if the President determines that such a 
     waiver is in the national security interest of the United 
     States.
       (d) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) Financial, material, or technological support.--The 
     term ``financial, material, or technological support'' has 
     the meaning given such term in section 542.304 of title 31, 
     Code of Federal Regulations (or any corresponding similar 
     regulation or ruling).
       (2) Foreign person.--The term ``foreign person'' has the 
     meaning given such term in section 594.304 of title 31, Code 
     of Federal Regulations (or any corresponding similar 
     regulation or ruling).
       (3) Syria.--The term ``Syria'' has the meaning given such 
     term in section 542.316 of title 31, Code of Federal 
     Regulations (or any corresponding similar regulation or 
     ruling).

     SEC. 235. SANCTIONS DESCRIBED.

       (a) Sanctions Described.--The sanctions to be imposed with 
     respect to a person under section 224(a)(2), 231(b), 232(a), 
     or 233(a) are the following:
       (1) Export-import bank assistance for exports to sanctioned 
     persons.--The President may direct the Export-Import Bank of 
     the United States not to give approval to the issuance of any 
     guarantee, insurance, extension of credit, or participation 
     in the extension of credit in connection with the export of 
     any goods or services to the sanctioned person.
       (2) Export sanction.--The President may order the United 
     States Government not to issue any specific license and not 
     to grant any other specific permission or authority to export 
     any goods or technology to the sanctioned person under--
       (A) the Export Administration Act of 1979 (50 U.S.C. 4601 
     et seq.) (as continued in effect pursuant to the 
     International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 
     et seq.));
       (B) the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.);
       (C) the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.); 
     or
       (D) any other statute that requires the prior review and 
     approval of the United States Government as a condition for 
     the export or reexport of goods or services.
       (3) Loans from united states financial institutions.--The 
     President may prohibit any United States financial 
     institution from making loans or providing credits to the 
     sanctioned person totaling more than $10,000,000 in any 12-
     month period unless the person is engaged in activities to 
     relieve human suffering and the loans or credits are provided 
     for such activities.
       (4) Loans from international financial institutions.--The 
     President may direct the United States executive director to 
     each international financial institution to use the voice and 
     vote of the United States to oppose any loan from the 
     international financial institution that would benefit the 
     sanctioned person.
       (5) Prohibitions on financial institutions.--The following 
     prohibitions may be imposed against the sanctioned person if 
     that person is a financial institution:
       (A) Prohibition on designation as primary dealer.--Neither 
     the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System nor the 
     Federal Reserve Bank of New York may designate, or permit the 
     continuation of any prior designation of, the financial 
     institution as a primary dealer in United States Government 
     debt instruments.
       (B) Prohibition on service as a repository of government 
     funds.--The financial institution may not serve as agent of 
     the

[[Page S3435]]

     United States Government or serve as repository for United 
     States Government funds.
     The imposition of either sanction under subparagraph (A) or 
     (B) shall be treated as 1 sanction for purposes of subsection 
     (b), and the imposition of both such sanctions shall be 
     treated as 2 sanctions for purposes of subsection (b)
       (6) Procurement sanction.--The United States Government may 
     not procure, or enter into any contract for the procurement 
     of, any goods or services from the sanctioned person.
       (7) Foreign exchange.--The President may, pursuant to such 
     regulations as the President may prescribe, prohibit any 
     transactions in foreign exchange that are subject to the 
     jurisdiction of the United States and in which the sanctioned 
     person has any interest.
       (8) Banking transactions.--The President may, pursuant to 
     such regulations as the President may prescribe, prohibit any 
     transfers of credit or payments between financial 
     institutions or by, through, or to any financial institution, 
     to the extent that such transfers or payments are subject to 
     the jurisdiction of the United States and involve any 
     interest of the sanctioned person.
       (9) Property transactions.--The President may, pursuant to 
     such regulations as the President may prescribe, prohibit any 
     person from--
       (A) acquiring, holding, withholding, using, transferring, 
     withdrawing, transporting, importing, or exporting any 
     property that is subject to the jurisdiction of the United 
     States and with respect to which the sanctioned person has 
     any interest;
       (B) dealing in or exercising any right, power, or privilege 
     with respect to such property; or
       (C) conducting any transaction involving such property.
       (10) Ban on investment in equity or debt of sanctioned 
     person.--The President may, pursuant to such regulations or 
     guidelines as the President may prescribe, prohibit any 
     United States person from investing in or purchasing 
     significant amounts of equity or debt instruments of the 
     sanctioned person.
       (11) Exclusion of corporate officers.--The President may 
     direct the Secretary of State to deny a visa to, and the 
     Secretary of Homeland Security to exclude from the United 
     States, any alien that the President determines is a 
     corporate officer or principal of, or a shareholder with a 
     controlling interest in, the sanctioned person.
       (12) Sanctions on principal executive officers.--The 
     President may impose on the principal executive officer or 
     officers of the sanctioned person, or on persons performing 
     similar functions and with similar authorities as such 
     officer or officers, any of the sanctions under this 
     subsection.
       (b) Sanctioned Person Defined.--In this section, the term 
     ``sanctioned person'' means a person subject to sanctions 
     under section 224(a)(2), 231(b), 232(a), or 233(a).

     SEC. 236. EXCEPTIONS, WAIVER, AND TERMINATION.

       (a) Exceptions.--The provisions of this part and amendments 
     made by this part shall not apply with respect to the 
     following:
       (1) Activities subject to the reporting requirements under 
     title V of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3091 
     et seq.), or any authorized intelligence activities of the 
     United States.
       (2) The admission of an alien to the United States if such 
     admission is necessary to comply with United States 
     obligations under the Agreement between the United Nations 
     and the United States of America regarding the Headquarters 
     of the United Nations, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, 
     and entered into force November 21, 1947, under the 
     Convention on Consular Relations, done at Vienna April 24, 
     1963, and entered into force March 19, 1967, or under other 
     international agreements.
       (b) Exception Relating to Importation of Goods.--No 
     requirement to impose sanctions under this part or an 
     amendment made by this part shall include the authority to 
     impose sanctions on the importation of goods.
       (c) Waiver of Sanctions That Are Imposed.--Subject to 
     section 216, if the President imposes sanctions with respect 
     to a person under this part or the amendments made by this 
     part, the President may waive the application of those 
     sanctions if the President determines that such a waiver is 
     in the national security interest of the United States.
       (d) Termination.--Subject to section 216, the President may 
     terminate the application of sanctions under section 224, 
     231, 232, 233, or 234 with respect to a person if the 
     President submits to the appropriate congressional 
     committees--
       (1) a notice of and justification for the termination; and
       (2) a notice that--
       (A) the person is not engaging in the activity that was the 
     basis for the sanctions or has taken significant verifiable 
     steps toward stopping the activity; and
       (B) the President has received reliable assurances that the 
     person will not knowingly engage in activity subject to 
     sanctions under this part in the future.

     SEC. 237. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.

       Nothing in this part or the amendments made by this part 
     shall be construed--
       (1) to supersede the limitations or exceptions on the use 
     of rocket engines for national security purposes under 
     section 1608 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 
     (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3626; 10 U.S.C. 2271 note), as 
     amended by section 1607 of the National Defense Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1100) 
     and section 1602 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2582); or
       (2) to prohibit a contractor or subcontractor of the 
     Department of Defense from acquiring components referred to 
     in such section 1608.

                           PART III--REPORTS

     SEC. 241. REPORT ON OLIGARCHS AND PARASTATAL ENTITIES OF THE 
                   RUSSIAN FEDERATION.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury, in 
     consultation with the Director of National Intelligence and 
     the Secretary of State, shall submit to the appropriate 
     congressional committees a detailed report on the following:
       (1) Senior foreign political figures and oligarchs in the 
     Russian Federation, including the following:
       (A) An identification of the most significant senior 
     foreign political figures and oligarchs in the Russian 
     Federation, as determined by their closeness to the Russian 
     regime and their net worth.
       (B) An assessment of the relationship between individuals 
     identified under subparagraph (A) and President Vladimir 
     Putin or other members of the Russian ruling elite.
       (C) An identification of any indices of corruption with 
     respect to those individuals.
       (D) The estimated net worth and known sources of income of 
     those individuals and their family members (including 
     spouses, children, parents, and siblings), including assets, 
     investments, other business interests, and relevant 
     beneficial ownership information.
       (E) An identification of the non-Russian business 
     affiliations of those individuals.
       (2) Russian parastatal entities, including an assessment of 
     the following:
       (A) The emergence of Russian parastatal entities and their 
     role in the economy of the Russian Federation.
       (B) The leadership structures and beneficial ownership of 
     those entities.
       (C) The scope of the non-Russian business affiliations of 
     those entities.
       (3) The exposure of key economic sectors of the United 
     States to Russian politically exposed persons and parastatal 
     entities, including, at a minimum, the banking, securities, 
     insurance, and real estate sectors.
       (4) The likely effects of imposing debt and equity 
     restrictions on Russian parastatal entities, as well as the 
     anticipated effects of adding Russian parastatal entities to 
     the list of specially designated nationals and blocked 
     persons maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of 
     the Department of the Treasury.
       (5) The potential impacts of imposing secondary sanctions 
     with respect to Russian oligarchs, Russian state-owned 
     enterprises, and Russian parastatal entities, including 
     impacts on the entities themselves and on the economy of the 
     Russian Federation, as well as on the economies of the United 
     States and allies of the United States.
       (b) Form of Report.--The report required under subsection 
     (a) shall be submitted in an unclassified form, but may 
     contain a classified annex.
       (c) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
     ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
       (A) the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, 
     the Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Committee on 
     Finance of the Senate; and
       (B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on 
     Financial Services, and the Committee on Ways and Means of 
     the House of Representatives.
       (2) Senior foreign political figure.--The term ``senior 
     foreign political figure'' has the meaning given that term in 
     section 1010.605 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations (or 
     any corresponding similar regulation or ruling).

     SEC. 242. REPORT ON EFFECTS OF EXPANDING SANCTIONS TO INCLUDE 
                   SOVEREIGN DEBT AND DERIVATIVE PRODUCTS.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury, in 
     consultation with the Director of National Intelligence and 
     the Secretary of State, shall submit to the appropriate 
     congressional committees a report describing in detail the 
     potential effects of expanding sanctions under Directive 1 
     (as amended), dated September 12, 2014, issued by the Office 
     of Foreign Assets Control under Executive Order 13662 (79 
     Fed. Reg. 16169; relating to blocking property of additional 
     persons contributing to the situation in Ukraine), or any 
     successor directive, to include sovereign debt and the full 
     range of derivative products.
       (b) Form of Report.--The report required under subsection 
     (a) shall be submitted in an unclassified form, but may 
     contain a classified annex.
       (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (1) the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, 
     the Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Committee on 
     Finance of the Senate; and
       (2) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on 
     Financial Services, and the Committee on Ways and Means of 
     the House of Representatives.

[[Page S3436]]

  


     SEC. 243. REPORT ON ILLICIT FINANCE RELATING TO THE RUSSIAN 
                   FEDERATION.

       (a) In General.--Not later than one year after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, and not later than the end of each 
     one-year period thereafter until 2021, the Secretary of the 
     Treasury shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
     committees a report describing interagency efforts in the 
     United States to combat illicit finance relating to the 
     Russian Federation.
       (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall 
     contain a summary of efforts by the United States to do the 
     following:
       (1) Identify, investigate, map, and disrupt illicit 
     financial flows linked to the Russian Federation if such 
     flows affect the United States financial system or those of 
     major allies of the United States.
       (2) Conduct outreach to the private sector, including 
     information sharing efforts to strengthen compliance efforts 
     by entities, including financial institutions, to prevent 
     illicit financial flows described in paragraph (1).
       (3) Engage and coordinate with allied international 
     partners on illicit finance, especially in Europe, to 
     coordinate efforts to uncover and prosecute the networks 
     responsible for illicit financial flows described in 
     paragraph (1), including examples of that engagement and 
     coordination.
       (4) Identify foreign sanctions evaders and loopholes within 
     the sanctions regimes of foreign partners of the United 
     States.
       (5) Expand the number of real estate geographic targeting 
     orders or other regulatory actions, as appropriate, to 
     degrade illicit financial activity relating to the Russian 
     Federation in relation to the financial system of the United 
     States.
       (6) Provide support to counter those involved in illicit 
     finance relating to the Russian Federation across all 
     appropriate law enforcement, intelligence, regulatory, and 
     financial authorities of the Federal Government, including by 
     imposing sanctions with respect to or prosecuting those 
     involved.
       (7) In the case of the Department of the Treasury and the 
     Department of Justice, investigate or otherwise develop major 
     cases, including a description of those cases.
       (c) Briefing.--After submitting a report under this 
     section, the Secretary of the Treasury shall provide 
     briefings to the appropriate congressional committees with 
     respect to that report.
       (d) Coordination.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall 
     coordinate with the Attorney General, the Director of 
     National Intelligence, the Secretary of Homeland Security, 
     and the Secretary of State in preparing each report under 
     this section.
       (e) Form.--Each report submitted under this section shall 
     be submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a 
     classified annex.
       (f) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
     ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
       (A) the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, 
     the Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Committee on 
     Finance of the Senate; and
       (B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on 
     Financial Services, and the Committee on Ways and Means of 
     the House of Representatives.
       (2) Illicit finance.--The term ``illicit finance'' means 
     the financing of terrorism, narcotics trafficking, or 
     proliferation, money laundering, or other forms of illicit 
     financing domestically or internationally, as defined by the 
     President.

     Subtitle B--Countering Russian Influence in Europe and Eurasia

     SEC. 251. FINDINGS.

       Congress makes the following findings:
       (1) The Government of the Russian Federation has sought to 
     exert influence throughout Europe and Eurasia, including in 
     the former states of the Soviet Union, by providing resources 
     to political parties, think tanks, and civil society groups 
     that sow distrust in democratic institutions and actors, 
     promote xenophobic and illiberal views, and otherwise 
     undermine European unity. The Government of the Russian 
     Federation has also engaged in well-documented corruption 
     practices as a means toward undermining and buying influence 
     in European and Eurasian countries.
       (2) The Government of the Russian Federation has largely 
     eliminated a once-vibrant Russian-language independent media 
     sector and severely curtails free and independent media 
     within the borders of the Russian Federation. Russian-
     language media organizations that are funded and controlled 
     by the Government of the Russian Federation and disseminate 
     information within and outside of the Russian Federation 
     routinely traffic in anti-Western disinformation, while few 
     independent, fact-based media sources provide objective 
     reporting for Russian-speaking audiences inside or outside of 
     the Russian Federation.
       (3) The Government of the Russian Federation continues to 
     violate its commitments under the Memorandum on Security 
     Assurances in connection with Ukraine's Accession to the 
     Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, done at 
     Budapest December 5, 1994, and the Conference on Security and 
     Co-operation in Europe Final Act, concluded at Helsinki 
     August 1, 1975 (commonly referred to as the ``Helsinki Final 
     Act''), which laid the ground-work for the establishment of 
     the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe, of 
     which the Russian Federation is a member, by its illegal 
     annexation of Crimea in 2014, its illegal occupation of South 
     Ossetia and Abkhazia in Georgia in 2008, and its ongoing 
     destabilizing activities in eastern Ukraine.
       (4) The Government of the Russian Federation continues to 
     ignore the terms of the August 2008 ceasefire agreement 
     relating to Georgia, which requires the withdrawal of Russian 
     Federation troops, free access by humanitarian groups to the 
     regions of South Ossetia and Abkhazia, and monitoring of the 
     conflict areas by the European Union Monitoring Mission.
       (5) The Government of the Russian Federation is failing to 
     comply with the terms of the Minsk Agreement to address the 
     ongoing conflict in eastern Ukraine, signed in Minsk, 
     Belarus, on February 11, 2015, by the leaders of Ukraine, 
     Russia, France, and Germany, as well as the Minsk Protocol, 
     which was agreed to on September 5, 2014.
       (6) The Government of the Russian Federation is--
       (A) in violation of the Treaty between the United States of 
     America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on the 
     Elimination of their Intermediate-Range and Shorter-Range 
     Missiles, signed at Washington December 8, 1987, and entered 
     into force June 1, 1988 (commonly known as the ``INF 
     Treaty''); and
       (B) failing to meet its obligations under the Treaty on 
     Open Skies, done at Helsinki March 24, 1992, and entered into 
     force January 1, 2002 (commonly known as the ``Open Skies 
     Treaty'').

     SEC. 252. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

       It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) the Government of the Russian Federation bears 
     responsibility for the continuing violence in Eastern 
     Ukraine, including the death on April 24, 2017, of Joseph 
     Stone, a citizen of the United States working as a monitor 
     for the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe;
       (2) the President should call on the Government of the 
     Russian Federation--
       (A) to withdraw all of its forces from the territories of 
     Georgia, Ukraine, and Moldova;
       (B) to return control of the borders of those territories 
     to their respective governments; and
       (C) to cease all efforts to undermine the popularly elected 
     governments of those countries;
       (3) the Government of the Russian Federation has applied, 
     and continues to apply, to the countries and peoples of 
     Georgia and Ukraine, traditional uses of force, intelligence 
     operations, and influence campaigns, which represent clear 
     and present threats to the countries of Europe and Eurasia;
       (4) in response, the countries of Europe and Eurasia should 
     redouble efforts to build resilience within their 
     institutions, political systems, and civil societies;
       (5) the United States supports the institutions that the 
     Government of the Russian Federation seeks to undermine, 
     including the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the 
     European Union;
       (6) a strong North Atlantic Treaty Organization is critical 
     to maintaining peace and security in Europe and Eurasia;
       (7) the United States should continue to work with the 
     European Union as a partner against aggression by the 
     Government of the Russian Federation, coordinating aid 
     programs, development assistance, and other counter-Russian 
     efforts;
       (8) the United States should encourage the establishment of 
     a commission for media freedom within the Council of Europe, 
     modeled on the Venice Commission regarding rule of law 
     issues, that would be chartered to provide governments with 
     expert recommendations on maintaining legal and regulatory 
     regimes supportive of free and independent media and an 
     informed citizenry able to distinguish between fact-based 
     reporting, opinion, and disinformation;
       (9) in addition to working to strengthen the North Atlantic 
     Treaty Organization and the European Union, the United States 
     should work with the individual countries of Europe and 
     Eurasia--
       (A) to identify vulnerabilities to aggression, 
     disinformation, corruption, and so-called hybrid warfare by 
     the Government of the Russian Federation;
       (B) to establish strategic and technical plans for 
     addressing those vulnerabilities;
       (C) to ensure that the financial systems of those countries 
     are not being used to shield illicit financial activity by 
     officials of the Government of the Russian Federation or 
     individuals in President Vladimir Putin's inner circle who 
     have been enriched through corruption;
       (D) to investigate and prosecute cases of corruption by 
     Russian actors; and
       (E) to work toward full compliance with the Convention on 
     Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in 
     International Business Transactions (commonly referred to as 
     the ``Anti-Bribery Convention'') of the Organization for 
     Economic Co-operation and Development; and
       (10) the President of the United States should use the 
     authority of the President to impose sanctions under--
       (A) the Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law Accountability Act of 
     2012 (title IV of Public Law 112-208; 22 U.S.C. 5811 note); 
     and
       (B) the Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act 
     (subtitle F of title XII of Public Law 114-328; 22 U.S.C. 
     2656 note).

[[Page S3437]]

  


     SEC. 253. STATEMENT OF POLICY.

       The United States, consistent with the principle of ex 
     injuria jus non oritur, supports the policy known as the 
     ``Stimson Doctrine'' and thus does not recognize territorial 
     changes effected by force, including the illegal invasions 
     and occupations of Abkhazia, South Ossetia, Crimea, Eastern 
     Ukraine, and Transnistria.

     SEC. 254. COORDINATING AID AND ASSISTANCE ACROSS EUROPE AND 
                   EURASIA.

       (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized 
     to be appropriated for the Countering Russian Influence Fund 
     $250,000,000 for fiscal years 2018 and 2019.
       (b) Use of Funds.--Amounts in the Countering Russian 
     Influence Fund shall be used to effectively implement, 
     prioritized in the following order and subject to the 
     availability of funds, the following goals:
       (1) To assist in protecting critical infrastructure and 
     electoral mechanisms from cyberattacks in the following 
     countries:
       (A) Countries that are members of the North Atlantic Treaty 
     Organization or the European Union that the Secretary of 
     State determines--
       (i) are vulnerable to influence by the Russian Federation; 
     and
       (ii) lack the economic capability to effectively respond to 
     aggression by the Russian Federation without the support of 
     the United States.
       (B) Countries that are participating in the enlargement 
     process of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization or the 
     European Union, including Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, 
     Georgia, Macedonia, Moldova, Kosovo, Serbia, and Ukraine.
       (2) To combat corruption, improve the rule of law, and 
     otherwise strengthen independent judiciaries and prosecutors 
     general offices in the countries described in paragraph (1).
       (3) To respond to the humanitarian crises and instability 
     caused or aggravated by the invasions and occupations of 
     Georgia and Ukraine by the Russian Federation.
       (4) To improve participatory legislative processes and 
     legal education, political transparency and competition, and 
     compliance with international obligations in the countries 
     described in paragraph (1).
       (5) To build the capacity of civil society, media, and 
     other nongovernmental organizations countering the influence 
     and propaganda of the Russian Federation to combat 
     corruption, prioritize access to truthful information, and 
     operate freely in all regions in the countries described in 
     paragraph (1).
       (6) To assist the Secretary of State in executing the 
     functions specified in section 1287(b) of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 
     114-328; 22 U.S.C. 2656 note) for the purposes of 
     recognizing, understanding, exposing, and countering 
     propaganda and disinformation efforts by foreign governments, 
     in coordination with the relevant regional Assistant 
     Secretary or Assistant Secretaries of the Department of 
     State.
       (c) Revision of Activities for Which Amounts May Be Used.--
     The Secretary of State may modify the goals described in 
     subsection (b) if, not later than 15 days before revising 
     such a goal, the Secretary notifies the appropriate 
     congressional committees of the revision.
       (d) Implementation.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of State shall, acting 
     through the Coordinator of United States Assistance to Europe 
     and Eurasia (authorized pursuant to section 601 of the 
     Support for East European Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989 (22 
     U.S.C. 5461) and section 102 of the Freedom for Russia and 
     Emerging Eurasian Democracies and Open Markets Support Act of 
     1992 (22 U.S.C. 5812)), and in consultation with the 
     Administrator for the United States Agency for International 
     Development, the Director of the Global Engagement Center of 
     the Department of State, the Secretary of Defense, the 
     Chairman of the Broadcasting Board of Governors, and the 
     heads of other relevant Federal agencies, coordinate and 
     carry out activities to achieve the goals described in 
     subsection (b).
       (2) Method.--Activities to achieve the goals described in 
     subsection (b) shall be carried out through--
       (A) initiatives of the United States Government;
       (B) Federal grant programs such as the Information Access 
     Fund; or
       (C) nongovernmental or international organizations, such as 
     the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe, the 
     National Endowment for Democracy, the Black Sea Trust, the 
     Balkan Trust for Democracy, the Prague Civil Society Centre, 
     the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Strategic 
     Communications Centre of Excellence, the European Endowment 
     for Democracy, and related organizations.
       (3) Report on implementation.--
       (A) In general.--Not later than April 1 of each year, the 
     Secretary of State, acting through the Coordinator of United 
     States Assistance to Europe and Eurasia, shall submit to the 
     appropriate congressional committees a report on the programs 
     and activities carried out to achieve the goals described in 
     subsection (b) during the preceding fiscal year.
       (B) Elements.--Each report required by subparagraph (A) 
     shall include, with respect to each program or activity 
     described in that subparagraph--
       (i) the amount of funding for the program or activity;
       (ii) the goal described in subsection (b) to which the 
     program or activity relates; and
       (iii) an assessment of whether or not the goal was met.
       (e) Coordination With Global Partners.--
       (1) In general.--In order to maximize cost efficiency, 
     eliminate duplication, and speed the achievement of the goals 
     described in subsection (b), the Secretary of State shall 
     ensure coordination with--
       (A) the European Union and its institutions;
       (B) the governments of countries that are members of the 
     North Atlantic Treaty Organization or the European Union; and
       (C) international organizations and quasi-governmental 
     funding entities that carry out programs and activities that 
     seek to accomplish the goals described in subsection (b).
       (2) Report by secretary of state.--Not later than April 1 
     of each year, the Secretary of State shall submit to the 
     appropriate congressional committees a report that includes--
       (A) the amount of funding provided to each country referred 
     to in subsection (b) by--
       (i) the European Union or its institutions;
       (ii) the government of each country that is a member of the 
     European Union or the North Atlantic Treaty Organization; and
       (iii) international organizations and quasi-governmental 
     funding entities that carry out programs and activities that 
     seek to accomplish the goals described in subsection (b); and
       (B) an assessment of whether the funding described in 
     subparagraph (A) is commensurate with funding provided by the 
     United States for those goals.
       (f) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
     construed to apply to or limit United States foreign 
     assistance not provided using amounts available in the 
     Countering Russian Influence Fund.
       (g) Ensuring Adequate Staffing for Governance Activities.--
     In order to ensure that the United States Government is 
     properly focused on combating corruption, improving rule of 
     law, and building the capacity of civil society, media, and 
     other nongovernmental organizations in countries described in 
     subsection (b)(1), the Secretary of State shall establish a 
     pilot program for Foreign Service officer positions focused 
     on governance and anticorruption activities in such 
     countries.

     SEC. 255. REPORT ON MEDIA ORGANIZATIONS CONTROLLED AND FUNDED 
                   BY THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the 
     President shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
     committees a report that includes a description of media 
     organizations that are controlled and funded by the 
     Government of the Russian Federation, and any affiliated 
     entities, whether operating within or outside the Russian 
     Federation, including broadcast and satellite-based 
     television, radio, Internet, and print media organizations.
       (b) Form of Report.--The report required by subsection (a) 
     shall be submitted in unclassified form but may include a 
     classified annex.

     SEC. 256. REPORT ON RUSSIAN FEDERATION INFLUENCE ON ELECTIONS 
                   IN EUROPE AND EURASIA.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the 
     President shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
     committees a report on funds provided by, or funds the use of 
     which was directed by, the Government of the Russian 
     Federation or any Russian person with the intention of 
     influencing the outcome of any election or campaign in any 
     country in Europe or Eurasia during the preceding year, 
     including through direct support to any political party, 
     candidate, lobbying campaign, nongovernmental organization, 
     or civic organization.
       (b) Form of Report.--Each report required by subsection (a) 
     shall be submitted in unclassified form but may include a 
     classified annex.
       (c) Russian Person Defined.--In this section, the term 
     ``Russian person'' means--
       (1) an individual who is a citizen or national of the 
     Russian Federation; or
       (2) an entity organized under the laws of the Russian 
     Federation or otherwise subject to the jurisdiction of the 
     Government of the Russian Federation.

     SEC. 257. UKRANIAN ENERGY SECURITY.

       (a) Statement of Policy.--It is the policy of the United 
     States--
       (1) to support the Government of Ukraine in restoring its 
     sovereign and territorial integrity;
       (2) to condemn and oppose all of the destabilizing efforts 
     by the Government of the Russian Federation in Ukraine in 
     violation of its obligations and international commitments;
       (3) to never recognize the illegal annexation of Crimea by 
     the Government of the Russian Federation or the separation of 
     any portion of Ukrainian territory through the use of 
     military force;
       (4) to deter the Government of the Russian Federation from 
     further destabilizing and invading Ukraine and other 
     independent countries in Central and Eastern Europe and the 
     Caucuses;
       (5) to assist in promoting reform in regulatory oversight 
     and operations in Ukraine's energy sector, including the 
     establishment and empowerment of an independent regulatory 
     organization;

[[Page S3438]]

       (6) to encourage and support fair competition, market 
     liberalization, and reliability in Ukraine's energy sector;
       (7) to help Ukraine and United States allies and partners 
     in Europe reduce their dependence on Russian energy 
     resources, especially natural gas, which the Government of 
     the Russian Federation uses as a weapon to coerce, 
     intimidate, and influence other countries;
       (8) to work with European Union member states and European 
     Union institutions to promote energy security through 
     developing diversified and liberalized energy markets that 
     provide diversified sources, suppliers, and routes;
       (9) to continue to oppose the NordStream 2 pipeline given 
     its detrimental impacts on the European Union's energy 
     security, gas market development in Central and Eastern 
     Europe, and energy reforms in Ukraine; and
       (10) that the United States Government should prioritize 
     the export of United States energy resources in order to 
     create American jobs, help United States allies and partners, 
     and strengthen United States foreign policy.
       (b) Plan to Promote Energy Security in Ukraine.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of State, in coordination 
     with the Administrator of the United States Agency for 
     International Development and the Secretary of Energy, shall 
     work with the Government of Ukraine to develop a plan to 
     increase energy security in Ukraine, increase the amount of 
     energy produced in Ukraine, and reduce Ukraine's reliance on 
     energy imports from the Russian Federation.
       (2) Elements.--The plan developed under paragraph (1) shall 
     include strategies for market liberalization, effective 
     regulation and oversight, supply diversification, energy 
     reliability, and energy efficiency, such as through 
     supporting--
       (A) the promotion of advanced technology and modern 
     operating practices in Ukraine's oil and gas sector;
       (B) modern geophysical and meteorological survey work as 
     needed followed by international tenders to help attract 
     qualified investment into exploration and development of 
     areas with untapped resources in Ukraine;
       (C) a broadening of Ukraine's electric power transmission 
     interconnection with Europe;
       (D) the strengthening of Ukraine's capability to maintain 
     electric power grid stability and reliability;
       (E) independent regulatory oversight and operations of 
     Ukraine's gas market and electricity sector;
       (F) the implementation of primary gas law including 
     pricing, tariff structure, and legal regulatory 
     implementation;
       (G) privatization of government owned energy companies 
     through credible legal frameworks and a transparent process 
     compliant with international best practices;
       (H) procurement and transport of emergency fuel supplies, 
     including reverse pipeline flows from Europe;
       (I) provision of technical assistance for crisis planning, 
     crisis response, and public outreach;
       (J) repair of infrastructure to enable the transport of 
     fuel supplies;
       (K) repair of power generating or power transmission 
     equipment or facilities; and
       (L) improved building energy efficiency and other measures 
     designed to reduce energy demand in Ukraine.
       (3) Reports.--
       (A) Implementation of ukraine freedom support act of 2014 
     provisions.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to 
     the appropriate congressional committees a report detailing 
     the status of implementing the provisions required under 
     section 7(c) of the Ukraine Freedom Support Act of 2014 (22 
     U.S.C. 8926(c)), including detailing the plans required under 
     that section, the level of funding that has been allocated to 
     and expended for the strategies set forth under that section, 
     and progress that has been made in implementing the 
     strategies developed pursuant to that section.
       (B) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter, the 
     Secretary of State shall submit to the appropriate 
     congressional committees a report detailing the plan 
     developed under paragraph (1), the level of funding that has 
     been allocated to and expended for the strategies set forth 
     in paragraph (2), and progress that has been made in 
     implementing the strategies.
       (C) Briefings.--The Secretary of State, or a designee of 
     the Secretary, shall brief the appropriate congressional 
     committees not later than 30 days after the submission of 
     each report under subparagraph (B). In addition, the 
     Department of State shall make relevant officials available 
     upon request to brief the appropriate congressional 
     committees on all available information that relates directly 
     or indirectly to Ukraine or energy security in Eastern 
     Europe.
       (D) Appropriate congressional committees defined.--In this 
     paragraph, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (i) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on 
     Appropriations of the Senate; and
       (ii) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
       (c) Supporting Efforts of Countries in Europe and Eurasia 
     to Decrease Their Dependence on Russian Sources of Energy.--
       (1) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
       (A) The Government of the Russian Federation uses its 
     strong position in the energy sector as leverage to 
     manipulate the internal politics and foreign relations of the 
     countries of Europe and Eurasia.
       (B) This influence is based not only on the Russian 
     Federation's oil and natural gas resources, but also on its 
     state-owned nuclear power and electricity companies.
       (2) Sense of congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
       (A) the United States should assist the efforts of the 
     countries of Europe and Eurasia to enhance their energy 
     security through diversification of energy supplies in order 
     to lessen dependencies on Russian Federation energy resources 
     and state-owned entities; and
       (B) the Export-Import Bank of the United States and the 
     Overseas Private Investment Corporation should play key roles 
     in supporting critical energy projects that contribute to 
     that goal.
       (3) Use of countering russian influence fund to provide 
     technical assistance.--Amounts in the Countering Russian 
     Influence Fund pursuant to section 254 shall be used to 
     provide technical advice to countries described in subsection 
     (b)(1) of such section designed to enhance energy security 
     and lessen dependence on energy from Russian Federation 
     sources.
       (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized 
     to be appropriated for the Department of State a total of 
     $30,000,000 for fiscal years 2018 and 2019 to carry out the 
     strategies set forth in subsection (b)(2) and other 
     activities under this section related to the promotion of 
     energy security in Ukraine.
       (e) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
     construed as affecting the responsibilities required and 
     authorities provided under section 7 of the Ukraine Freedom 
     Support Act of 2014 (22 U.S.C. 8926).

     SEC. 258. TERMINATION.

       The provisions of this subtitle shall terminate on the date 
     that is 5 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.

     SEC. 259. APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES DEFINED.

       Except as otherwise provided, in this subtitle, the term 
     ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
       (1) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on 
     Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, the Committee on Armed 
     Services, the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
     Affairs, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Select 
     Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
       (2) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on 
     Financial Services, the Committee on Armed Services, the 
     Committee on Homeland Security, the Committee on 
     Appropriations, and the Permanent Select Committee on 
     Intelligence of the House of Representatives.

         Subtitle C--Combating Terrorism and Illicit Financing

  PART I--NATIONAL STRATEGY FOR COMBATING TERRORIST AND OTHER ILLICIT 
                               FINANCING

     SEC. 261. DEVELOPMENT OF NATIONAL STRATEGY.

       (a) In General.--The President, acting through the 
     Secretary, shall, in consultation with the Attorney General, 
     the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Homeland Security, 
     the Director of National Intelligence, and the appropriate 
     Federal banking agencies and Federal functional regulators, 
     develop a national strategy for combating the financing of 
     terrorism and related forms of illicit finance.
       (b) Transmittal to Congress.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to the 
     appropriate congressional committees a comprehensive national 
     strategy developed in accordance with subsection (a).
       (2) Updates.--Not later than January 31, 2020, and January 
     31, 2022, the President shall submit to the appropriate 
     congressional committees updated versions of the national 
     strategy submitted under paragraph (1).
       (c) Separate Presentation of Classified Material.--Any part 
     of the national strategy that involves information that is 
     properly classified under criteria established by the 
     President shall be submitted to Congress separately in a 
     classified annex and, if requested by the chairman or ranking 
     member of one of the appropriate congressional committees, as 
     a briefing at an appropriate level of security.

     SEC. 262. CONTENTS OF NATIONAL STRATEGY.

       The strategy described in section 261 shall contain the 
     following:
       (1) Evaluation of existing efforts.--An assessment of the 
     effectiveness of and ways in which the United States is 
     currently addressing the highest levels of risk of various 
     forms of illicit finance, including those identified in the 
     documents entitled ``2015 National Money Laundering Risk 
     Assessment'' and ``2015 National Terrorist Financing Risk 
     Assessment'', published by the Department of the Treasury and 
     a description of how the strategy is integrated into, and 
     supports, the broader counter terrorism strategy of the 
     United States.
       (2) Goals, objectives, and priorities.--A comprehensive, 
     research-based, long-range, quantifiable discussion of goals, 
     objectives, and priorities for disrupting and preventing 
     illicit finance activities within and

[[Page S3439]]

     transiting the financial system of the United States that 
     outlines priorities to reduce the incidence, dollar value, 
     and effects of illicit finance.
       (3) Threats.--An identification of the most significant 
     illicit finance threats to the financial system of the United 
     States.
       (4) Reviews and proposed changes.--Reviews of enforcement 
     efforts, relevant regulations and relevant provisions of law 
     and, if appropriate, discussions of proposed changes 
     determined to be appropriate to ensure that the United States 
     pursues coordinated and effective efforts at all levels of 
     government, and with international partners of the United 
     States, in the fight against illicit finance.
       (5) Detection and prosecution initiatives.--A description 
     of efforts to improve, as necessary, detection and 
     prosecution of illicit finance, including efforts to ensure 
     that--
       (A) subject to legal restrictions, all appropriate data 
     collected by the Federal Government that is relevant to the 
     efforts described in this section be available in a timely 
     fashion to--
       (i) all appropriate Federal departments and agencies; and
       (ii) as appropriate and consistent with section 314 of the 
     International Money Laundering Abatement and Financial Anti-
     Terrorism Act of 2001 (31 U.S.C. 5311 note), to financial 
     institutions to assist the financial institutions in efforts 
     to comply with laws aimed at curbing illicit finance; and
       (B) appropriate efforts are undertaken to ensure that 
     Federal departments and agencies charged with reducing and 
     preventing illicit finance make thorough use of publicly 
     available data in furtherance of this effort.
       (6) The role of the private financial sector in prevention 
     of illicit finance.--A discussion of ways to enhance 
     partnerships between the private financial sector and Federal 
     departments and agencies with regard to the prevention and 
     detection of illicit finance, including--
       (A) efforts to facilitate compliance with laws aimed at 
     stopping such illicit finance while maintaining the 
     effectiveness of such efforts; and
       (B) providing guidance to strengthen internal controls and 
     to adopt on an industry-wide basis more effective policies.
       (7) Enhancement of intergovernmental cooperation.--A 
     discussion of ways to combat illicit finance by enhancing--
       (A) cooperative efforts between and among Federal, State, 
     and local officials, including State regulators, State and 
     local prosecutors, and other law enforcement officials; and
       (B) cooperative efforts with and between governments of 
     countries and with and between multinational institutions 
     with expertise in fighting illicit finance, including the 
     Financial Action Task Force and the Egmont Group of Financial 
     Intelligence Units.
       (8) Trend analysis of emerging illicit finance threats.--A 
     discussion of and data regarding trends in illicit finance, 
     including evolving forms of value transfer such as so-called 
     cryptocurrencies, other methods that are computer, 
     telecommunications, or Internet-based, cyber crime, or any 
     other threats that the Secretary may choose to identify.
       (9) Budget priorities.--A multiyear budget plan that 
     identifies sufficient resources needed to successfully 
     execute the full range of missions called for in this 
     section.
       (10) Technology enhancements.--An analysis of current and 
     developing ways to leverage technology to improve the 
     effectiveness of efforts to stop the financing of terrorism 
     and other forms of illicit finance, including better 
     integration of open-source data.

    PART II--ENHANCING ANTITERRORISM TOOLS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE 
                                TREASURY

     SEC. 271. IMPROVING ANTITERROR FINANCE MONITORING OF FUNDS 
                   TRANSFERS.

       (a) Study.--
       (1) In general.--To improve the ability of the Department 
     of the Treasury to better track cross-border fund transfers 
     and identify potential financing of terrorist or other forms 
     of illicit finance, the Secretary shall carry out a study to 
     assess--
       (A) the potential efficacy of requiring banking regulators 
     to establish a pilot program to provide technical assistance 
     to depository institutions and credit unions that wish to 
     provide account services to money services businesses serving 
     individuals in Somalia;
       (B) whether such a pilot program could be a model for 
     improving the ability of United States persons to make 
     legitimate funds transfers through transparent and easily 
     monitored channels while preserving strict compliance with 
     the Bank Secrecy Act (Public Law 91-508; 84 Stat. 1114) and 
     related controls aimed at stopping money laundering and the 
     financing of terrorism; and
       (C) consistent with current legal requirements regarding 
     confidential supervisory information, the potential impact of 
     allowing money services businesses to share certain State 
     examination information with depository institutions and 
     credit unions, or whether another appropriate mechanism could 
     be identified to allow a similar exchange of information to 
     give the depository institutions and credit unions a better 
     understanding of whether an individual money services 
     business is adequately meeting its anti-money laundering and 
     counter-terror financing obligations to combat money 
     laundering, the financing of terror, or related illicit 
     finance.
       (2) Public input.--The Secretary should solicit and 
     consider public input as appropriate in developing the study 
     required under subsection (a).
       (b) Report.--Not later than 270 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
     Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs and the 
     Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the 
     Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs of the House of Representatives a report that 
     contains all findings and determinations made in carrying out 
     the study required under subsection (a).

     SEC. 272. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION 
                   REGARDING TERRORIST FINANCING INTELLIGENCE.

       It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary, acting 
     through the Under Secretary for Terrorism and Financial 
     Crimes, should intensify work with foreign partners to help 
     the foreign partners develop intelligence analytic 
     capacities, in a financial intelligence unit, finance 
     ministry, or other appropriate agency, that are--
       (1) commensurate to the threats faced by the foreign 
     partner; and
       (2) designed to better integrate intelligence efforts with 
     the anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing 
     regimes of the foreign partner.

     SEC. 273. EXAMINING THE COUNTER-TERROR FINANCING ROLE OF THE 
                   DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY IN EMBASSIES.

       Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on 
     Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs and the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on 
     Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of 
     the House of Representatives a report that contains--
       (1) a list of the United States embassies in which a full-
     time Department of the Treasury financial attache is 
     stationed and a description of how the interests of the 
     Department of the Treasury relating to terrorist financing 
     and money laundering are addressed (via regional attaches or 
     otherwise) at United States embassies where no such attaches 
     are present;
       (2) a list of the United States embassies at which the 
     Department of the Treasury has assigned a technical 
     assistance advisor from the Office of Technical Assistance of 
     the Department of the Treasury;
       (3) an overview of how Department of the Treasury financial 
     attaches and technical assistance advisors assist in efforts 
     to counter illicit finance, to include money laundering, 
     terrorist financing, and proliferation financing; and
       (4) an overview of patterns, trends, or other issues 
     identified by the Department of the Treasury and whether 
     resources are sufficient to address these issues.

     SEC. 274. INCLUSION OF SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY ON THE 
                   NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL.

       (a) In General.--Section 101(c)(1) of the National Security 
     Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3021(c)(1)) is amended by inserting 
     ``the Secretary of the Treasury,'' before ``and such other 
     officers''.
       (b) Rule of Construction.--The amendment made by subsection 
     (a) may not be construed to authorize the National Security 
     Council to have a professional staff level that exceeds the 
     limitation set forth under section 101(e)(3) of the National 
     Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3021(e)(3)).

     SEC. 275. INCLUSION OF ALL FUNDS.

       (a) In General.--Section 5326 of title 31, United States 
     Code, is amended--
       (1) in the heading of such section, by striking ``coin and 
     currency'';
       (2) in subsection (a)--
       (A) by striking ``subtitle and'' and inserting ``subtitle 
     or to''; and
       (B) in paragraph (1)(A), by striking ``United States coins 
     or currency (or such other monetary instruments as the 
     Secretary may describe in such order)'' and inserting ``funds 
     (as the Secretary may describe in such order),''; and
       (3) in subsection (b)--
       (A) in paragraph (1)(A), by striking ``coins or currency 
     (or monetary instruments)'' and inserting ``funds''; and
       (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``coins or currency (or 
     such other monetary instruments as the Secretary may describe 
     in the regulation or order)'' and inserting ``funds (as the 
     Secretary may describe in the regulation or order)''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for chapter 
     53 of title 31, United States Code, is amended in the item 
     relating to section 5326 by striking ``coin and currency''.

                         PART III--DEFINITIONS

     SEC. 281. DEFINITIONS.

       In this subtitle--
       (1) the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (A) the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, 
     the Committee on Foreign Relations, Committee on Armed 
     Services, Committee on the Judiciary, Committee on Homeland 
     Security and Governmental Affairs, and the Select Committee 
     on Intelligence of the Senate; and
       (B) the Committee on Financial Services, the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Armed Services, the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, Committee on Homeland Security, 
     and the Permanent Select Committee

[[Page S3440]]

     on Intelligence of the House of Representatives;
       (2) the term ``appropriate Federal banking agencies'' has 
     the meaning given the term in section 3 of the Federal 
     Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813);
       (3) the term ``Bank Secrecy Act'' means--
       (A) section 21 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 
     U.S.C. 1829b);
       (B) chapter 2 of title I of Public Law 91-508 (12 U.S.C. 
     1951 et seq.); and
       (C) subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 31, United States 
     Code;
       (4) the term ``Federal functional regulator'' has the 
     meaning given that term in section 509 of the Gramm-Leach-
     Bliley Act (15 U.S.C. 6809);
       (5) the term ``illicit finance'' means the financing of 
     terrorism, narcotics trafficking, or proliferation, money 
     laundering, or other forms of illicit financing domestically 
     or internationally, as defined by the President;
       (6) the term ``money services business'' has the meaning 
     given the term under section 1010.100 of title 31, Code of 
     Federal Regulations;
       (7) the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the 
     Treasury; and
       (8) the term ``State'' means each of the several States, 
     the District of Columbia, and each territory or possession of 
     the United States.

                    Subtitle D--Rule of Construction

     SEC. 291. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.

       Nothing in this title or the amendments made by this title 
     (other than sections 216 and 236(b)) shall be construed to 
     limit the authority of the President under the International 
     Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.).

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I just want to say to my colleague, the 
Democratic leader, that I think this is a good example of the Senate at 
its best. We all know this has been a period of rather partisan 
sparring back and forth on a variety of different things, but both 
sides were able to put that aside and deal with two important issues in 
a very significant way. I think it is good for the Senate and good for 
the country, and I thank the Democratic leader for his comments.

                          ____________________



