

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 116 (Tuesday, July 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 116 (Tuesday, July 11, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3925-S3926]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. CRAPO. Mr. President, I have 7 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to Rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


                      committee on armed services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, July 11, 2017, at 9:30 a.m., in open 
session to consider the nomination of: Mr. Richard V. Spencer to be 
Secretary of the Navy.

[[Page S3926]]

  



                     committee on foreign relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, July 11, 2017 at 10 a.m., to hold a 
hearing entitled ``Nominations.''


        committee on homeland security and governmental affairs

  The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, July 
11, 2017, at 10 a.m. for a business meeting.


                       committee on intelligence

  The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet 
during the session of the 115th Congress of the U.S. Senate on Tuesday, 
July 11, 2017 from 2:15 p.m.-2:30 p.m. in Room SH-219 of the Senate 
Hart Office Building to hold a closed business meeting to consider the 
nomination of Mr. David Glawe to be Under Secretary for Intelligence 
and Analysis at the Department of Homeland Security.


                       committee on intelligence

  The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet 
during the session of the 115th Congress of the U.S. Senate on Tuesday, 
July 11, 2017 from 2:30 p.m.-4:00 p.m. in Room SH-219 of the Senate 
Hart Office Building to hold a closed hearing.


                     committee on veterans' affairs

  The Committee on Veterans' Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, July 11, 2017, at 2:30 p.m. in SR-
418, to conduct a hearing on legislation pending before the Committee.


     committee on the judiciary subcommittee on crime and terrorism

  The Committee on the Judiciary, Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism, 
is authorized to meet during the session of the Senate, on July 11, 
2017, at 2:30 p.m., in Room SD-226 of the Dirksen Senate Office 
Building, to conduct a hearing entitled ``Concurrent Congressional and 
Criminal Investigations: Lessons from History.''

                          ____________________



