

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 97 (Wednesday, June 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 97 (Wednesday, June 7, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3325-S3326]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                 GRANITE MOUNTAIN/SPECULATOR MINE FIRE

 Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, today I wish to remember metal 
mining's greatest disaster, the Granite Mountain/Speculator Mine Fire 
that took place 100 years ago in Butte, MT, that claimed the lives of 
168 men.
  On the night of June 8, 1917, approximately 410 men were in the mine, 
working to meet the demand for copper that was created by our Armed 
Forces on the frontlines during World War I. An electric cable had been 
lowered into the mine earlier in the day and had gotten away from the 
workers, falling into a tangled coil. Later that evening, as crews 
examined the damaged cable, a lamp accidentally ignited the cable and 
sparked a fire that would fill the mine with smoke and poisonous gas.
  Unable to lower cages due to fire damage, in an act of pure bravery, 
over 100 rescue workers immediately jumped into harm's way to try to 
rescue their trapped brothers. Miraculously, none of the rescue workers 
were killed, but sadly, after the conclusion of rescue efforts, a total 
of 168 miners were lost. The community of Butte grieved together, as 
did the entire Montana family.
  Today I want to honor those who perished that tragic day and honor 
those whose families who would never be the same after it. Would you 
please join me in a brief moment of silence to remember those miners 
and their families?
  This proclamation is meant to recognize the strength of those 
Montanans who sacrificed their lives in support our Nation's military 
work in World War I, as well as those who jumped to help a fallen 
brother without question. The tragedy that befell our mining community 
highlights the strength found in the hearts of not only Montanans, but 
all Americans, and the moments that make heroes out of ordinary men and 
bring communities together.
  So that future generations will not forget the men who perished that 
day, a memorial was built in honor of those who died in the Granite 
Mountain/

[[Page S3326]]

Speculator Mine Fire. If you are ever in our beautiful State, I hope 
you will take time to visit.
  One hundred years after this tragedy, we are also reminded of how far 
we have come in hard rock mining. Jobs that were once seen as high risk 
are now very desirable, not just due to high wages, but more 
importantly because of advances in safety. In fact, according to the 
Department of Labor, fiscal year 2016 was the safest year in mining 
history. The continued progress toward safer mining has been a shared 
effort across State and Federal agencies, as well as the mining 
community itself. New technology, better practices, special 
initiatives, and improved training have led to a culture in mining 
communities and industry that prioritizes safety. The Granite Mountain/
Speculator Mine Fire reminds us so that we must continue to push for 
even safer mining.
  Lastly, I want to take a moment to thank those hard rock miners who 
are spread across our beautiful country and who continue to serve the 
American people. Thank you for all that you do. We must continue to 
prioritize safety that we never again have a tragedy like that of the 
Granite Mountain/Speculator Mine Fire.

                          ____________________



