

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 96 (Tuesday, June 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 96 (Tuesday, June 6, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3286]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




            100TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE WELD COUNTY COURTHOUSE

 Mr. GARDNER. Madam President, today I wish to recognize the 
100th anniversary of the Weld County Courthouse in Greeley, CO. On July 
4, 1917, the Weld County Courthouse opened for business after a mere 28 
months of construction. Denver architect William N. Bowman designed the 
classical revival-style courthouse, and its original courtrooms remain 
intact. This anniversary recognizes the rich history in northern 
Colorado and is a reminder of Colorado's unique past.
  Greeley, CO is named after Horace Greeley, one of the first 
journalists to document his experience in the Wild West. Horace came to 
Colorado during the Pikes Peak Gold Rush of 1859 and encouraged his 
fellow Americans to ``Go West, young man, and grow up in this 
country.'' Horace's words helped put Greeley on the map and ultimately 
established the city as an important part of American history. Soon 
after Horace explored northern Colorado, the Colorado Legislature 
recognized Weld County as one of the first 17 counties in the Colorado 
territory.
  The Weld County Courthouse was one of the first buildings constructed 
in Greeley. The first courthouse, built in 1861, served as a meeting 
place for court proceedings and business matters. During this period, 
the courthouse was only a one-room log cabin located near Platteville, 
CO. The courthouse moved locations four times before the final 
courthouse opened for business in 1917.
  I would like to congratulate the citizens of Weld County on this 
milestone, and I look forward to the future accomplishments of the 
entire Weld County community.

                          ____________________



