

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 97 (Wednesday, June 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 97 (Wednesday, June 7, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4660]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      AUTHORITY OF THE WHITE HOUSE

  (Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute.)
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, it is often difficult when Members 
represent different aspects or parties to really speak to what is 
right.
  I just came from Europe, meeting with Europeans from a number of 
countries. I was passing through London in the backdrop of the heinous 
and tragic London Bridge incident. Many of us saw the courageous mayor 
of London speak to the people, along with national leadership.
  So I must indicate my disappointment in the comments of the Commander 
in Chief of this Nation to bash in time of trouble Mayor Khan, a 
Muslim, who has stood against terrorism. Then, of course, the 
precipitous actions of firing Director Comey and the rumors of either 
firing or asking for the resignation of Attorney General Sessions gives 
me great pause for legislation like the Financial CHOICE Act that would 
take away the independent authority of the Consumer Financial 
Protection Bureau and make the head of that an appointee of the 
President, so the person who protects consumers will be able to be 
fired by this President.
  With the words against the London mayor, the firing of Comey, and the 
threatening of Attorney General Sessions, I wonder whether or not we 
can tolerate any other authority given to this White House to be able 
to fire people who are to protect the rights of the American people, 
and to be able to stand for comments that undermine our allies and the 
friendships that we have established over the decades working to secure 
the American people. Let us think about it.

                          ____________________



