

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 70 (Tuesday, April 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 70 (Tuesday, April 25, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2521]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




   RECOGNIZING THE LEWISTON HIGH SCHOOL COMPETITION CHEERLEADING TEAM

 Mr. KING. Mr. President, each year high school student-
athletes from across the country compete for their State championship 
title. The journey of a championship team is not merely a story of 
glory or success, but rather an aggregation of hard work, 
sportsmanship, and persistence. Today I wish to extend recognition to a 
team in Maine whose perseverance and teamwork have made them a force to 
be reckoned with each season. I am proud to highlight the achievements 
of the Lewiston High School Blue Devils competition cheerleading team 
who, on the path to their third consecutive Class A State title for the 
sixth time in the last seven seasons, have demonstrated a remarkable 
level of drive, ambition, and pride towards achieving success.
  Lewiston High School's nationally recognized and distinguished 
competition cheer program has a long history of talent and teamwork 
symbolic of the pride felt for the Blue Devils throughout the 
community. As the eighth consecutive Class A North/East Regional 
Champions, the cheer team has experienced few losses in recent years, 
but the program and student-athletes see each challenging loss as an 
opportunity to work harder and be stronger. The Blue Devils fulfilled 
that promise and more this past season. After a loss in the Kennebec 
Valley Athletic Conference, KVAC, the team responded with an impressive 
display of discipline and grit when they exceeded expectations and won 
the State title with a score of 95--representative of a nearly seamless 
routine.
  The Lewiston cheer program is much more than a team of exceptional 
student-athletes. These talented and aspiring young people have 
contributed to a cheer dynasty that inspires young athletes and is 
recognized as a premier program throughout the State. The pride felt 
for the program, team members, peers, and the Lewiston community at 
large shows the level of dedication and ambition that has led to so 
many impressive successes.
  I wish to join the city of Lewiston and the entire Maine community in 
congratulating the Lewiston High School competition cheering team for 
their well-earned recognition. The program has built a legacy of 
success, instilling core values of hard work, perseverance, and 
sportsmanship and imbues all that is significant about participation 
and competition in sport at any level. For this and so much more, the 
Blue Devils competition cheer team are true champions.

                          ____________________



