

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 76 (Wednesday, May 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 76 (Wednesday, May 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2690]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      REMEMBERING ROSE LANDRY LONG

  Mr. CASSIDY. Mr. President, I rise to pay honor to Rose Landry Long. 
This past week, the State of Louisiana lost a caring mother, loving 
grandmother, supportive spouse, and, to me, my wife, and so many back 
home, a dear friend. Rose Landry Long left us too soon, but she will 
always be remembered. My wife Laura and I had the pleasure of knowing 
Rose and her wonderful family for over 10 years. We taught two of her 
grandchildren in our Sunday school class.
  Rose was born in Natchitoches, LA, to a French-speaking Cajun family. 
English was her second language. She graduated from Gueydan High School 
and became the first person from her family to attend college. There 
she met her husband, Gerald Long, at Northwestern State University.
  A sidenote about Gerald: He is a member of the famous Long family, 
which includes Huey Long, Earl Long, Speedy Long, Jimmy Long, and many 
others--respectively, Senators, Governors, Congressmen, and State 
elected officials.
  When Gerald was elected to the Louisiana Senate, Rose came to Baton 
Rouge and befriended everyone, Republicans and Democrats alike. Just 
out of being so concerned and loving toward others, she quickly became 
the center of activity and encouragement for so many. Rose had a way of 
reaching out to people, connecting with them and making them understand 
how much she cared for them. You could see each person respond to that 
care and love.
  Rose was a tremendous woman of God. She loved the Lord and was always 
interested in sharing her love for Him with others. She led Bible 
studies in every town in which she lived. In Baton Rouge, she led a 
Bible study for Senate staff, legislators' spouses, which my wife Laura 
attended. Her commitment to Jesus Christ was embedded in her values and 
made her the great woman we will remember. Her ability to pass these 
values to friends and family will live on as a part of her legacy.
  Rose Landry Long will be remembered as a great mother, grandmother, 
and wife, but more than anything, as someone who served others by 
loving others.
  Mr. President, I yield back.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Connecticut.

                          ____________________



