

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 82 (Thursday, May 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 82 (Thursday, May 11, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2914-S2915]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 RECOGNIZING FISHERS JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL

 Mr. YOUNG. Mr. President, I wish with great pride today to 
honor Fishers Junior High School of Fishers, IN, for their impressive 
victory in the We the People National Invitational held in Washington, 
DC, on April 28 through May 2, 2017. In light of Indiana's proud 
tradition of civic engagement, it gives me great pleasure in honoring 
these students and future leaders of our communities. These individuals 
embody the fundamental purpose of the Constitution and live by its 
principles both inside and outside the classroom.
  The We the People National Invitational comprised of eight teams from 
across the United States. The qualified contestants included middle and 
high school groups from Arizona, Colorado, Florida, Maine, Ohio, 
Oregon, Virginia, and of course Fishers Junior High

[[Page S2915]]

School, representing the Hoosier State. To be in the running for the 
national invitational, student contestants must display their 
knowledge, as well as current political awareness and constitutional 
acumen by holding mock or simulated congressional hearings at the local 
and State level during the current school year. Once qualified, during 
the final competition in DC, similar to the simulated congressional 
hearings held at the local level to be one of the eight finalists, each 
class went before a group of judges. Teams were allocated a 4-minute 
introductory statement and then faced pressing questions pertaining to 
existing constitutional subjects as well as past from the judges. The 
winning team must show an exceptional understanding of constitutional 
principles applicable to historical and current issues.
  For the record, I want to acknowledge each student of the Fishers 
Junior High School team who participated in achieving first place in 
the We the People National Invitational: Makenna Adams, Izzy Alexander, 
Addi Arena, Blake Backes, Jackson Bakle, Mackenzie Boyer, Milan 
Colzani, Joe Conde, Kamryn Dean, Grace DeLong, Sydney Doyle, Madison 
Ewart, Faith Farrell, Maya Fotedar, Abby Funk, Ray Gao, Abigail 
Garrison, Meg Gibson, Liberty Hayes, Morgan Joiner, Braden Kirkendall, 
Shea Koley, Ben Lilley, Tatiyana Lockridge, Olivia Lux, Ali Mohamed, 
Cassidy Robertson, Gracey Scholl, Kara Van Dyke, Jonah VanDer Kamp, and 
Bailey Wilson. Furthermore, I would like to recognize Mr. Mike Fassold 
for his efforts to teach and implement a passion for constitutional and 
civic engagement in his students.
  Again, congratulations to the Fishers Junior High School team for 
their extraordinary victory, and thank you for representing your fellow 
Hoosiers. It is truly an honor to have brilliant students in the State 
of Indiana who inspire others with their knowledge, hard work, and 
dedication.

                          ____________________



