

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 84 (Tuesday, May 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 84 (Tuesday, May 16, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4202]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      WELCOMING DR. BRUCE HARGRAVE

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without objection, the gentleman from Texas 
(Mr. Sessions) is recognized for 1 minute.
  There was no objection.
  Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to thank the gentleman who 
has just given our invocation, Dr. Bruce Hargrave. As a faith leader, a 
city council member in Rowlett, Texas, and a trusted member of his 
community, he has dedicated his life to helping others. He has served 
in the Baptist and United Methodist churches for more than 40 years and 
continues to help those not only in need in his community, but those 
who seek him out and who he seeks through spiritual and emotional 
guidance.
  As a civil servant, Bruce has played an integral role in his 
community. He is a member of the Rowlett Chamber of Commerce and the 
Rowlett Rotary Club, where he is a Paul Harris Fellow.
  In the wake of the devastating tornados that hit north Texas over a 
year ago on December 26, Bruce decided that he wanted to do more than 
just help but rather to rebuild the city that he called home. So he ran 
for the city council and was elected to serve in May.
  It truly is a distinct honor not only to have a well-respected person 
from Rowlett, Texas, in the 32nd Congressional District with us today, 
but it highlights how important it is that each of the Members of 
Congress who are so proud of those that we represent come to our great 
Nation, our Nation's Capital, and not only give us best wishes but pray 
for our success.
  I would like to thank the Honorable Dr. Bruce Hargrave for his 
service to not only Rowlett, Texas, to his country, but also to our 
Lord. And I thank him very much.
  God bless Texas, and God bless America.

                          ____________________



