

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 112 (Thursday, June 29, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 112 (Thursday, June 29, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3856]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                       TRIBUTE TO MARVIN QUALLEY

 Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this week I have the distinct honor 
of recognizing Marvin Qualley, a dedicated basketball official from 
Roosevelt County. This past week, Marvin was selected by the Montana 
High School Association for induction into the 2017 Montana Officials' 
Association Hall of Fame.
  Marvin's recognition as a hall of fame official is clearly well 
earned. He has been a bedrock official in the northeast Montana 
basketball circuit for many years. From Plentywood to Poplar, the 
communities of northeast Montana have benefited from Marvin's 
officiating. The 36-year duration of Marvin's contributions to youth 
sports is simply amazing. The quality of his hall of fame career is 
evident in his frequent selection to officiate postseason competitions. 
He was behind the whistle for 15 State basketball tournaments and 60 
total tournaments. In addition to his accomplishments as a referee, 
Marvin has spent many years behind the wheel of a school bus helping 
students in the Froid and Medicine Lake communities safely reach their 
destination.
  Both behind the wheel and behind the whistle, Marvin's commitment to 
safety and fair play has helped a generation of Montana students. 
Officiating youth sports is often a thankless task. Looking back on 
Marvin's distinguished career, it is appropriate to sum it up with a 
sincere ``Good job, ref!''

                          ____________________



