

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 73 (Friday, April 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 73 (Friday, April 28, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2961]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   PRESIDENT TRUMP'S BROKEN PROMISES

  (Mr. TONKO asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. TONKO. Mr. Speaker, I rise to call our President's attention to 
the working families both in New York's capital region and across our 
great country who are hurting from his broken promises during his first 
100 days in office.
  President Trump promised during the campaign that our working 
families would never be forgotten again. He has forgotten to keep that 
promise. This President promised to get lobbyists and special interests 
out of our government. Then he filled his Cabinet with former 
lobbyists, Wall Street and oil company executives, and other 
billionaires.
  Now reports are coming out that numerous members of his 
administration were exempted from his widely publicized 5-year lobbying 
ban; therefore, it is no surprise that his policies, again and again, 
put corporate interests ahead of America's middle class and working 
families.
  President Trump promised to punish companies that outsourced American 
jobs. Instead, he has continued to award lucrative government contracts 
to these outsourcing companies, rewarding them for bad behavior and 
doing nothing to hold other bad actors accountable.
  As a candidate, Donald Trump called NAFTA the worst trade deal ever 
approved in our country. He promised to hold China accountable for its 
bad behavior on trade. Mexico and Canada called his bluff this week on 
NAFTA. Instead of accountability, President Trump has offered China 
sweetheart trade benefits to get them to keep promises they had already 
made in dealing with North Korea.
  We know the difference between alternative facts and real results. We 
all do.

                          ____________________



