

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 86 (Thursday, May 18, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 86 (Thursday, May 18, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4343]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                HONORING FALLEN LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS

  (Ms. McSALLY asked and was given permission to address the House for 
1 minute and to revise and extend her remarks.)
  Ms. McSALLY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to commemorate National Police 
Week and to applaud the 900,000 law enforcement officers nationwide.
  Last year, Arizona lost some of our finest, those who paid the 
ultimate sacrifice to keep our communities safe: Officer David Glasser 
of Phoenix PD was killed in the line of duty last May, leaving behind 
his wife and two children; Senior Officer Leander Frank of Navajo 
Nation PD was killed while responding to a call last August, and he is 
survived by his wife and children; Officer Darrin Lee Reed of Show Low 
PD was shot in the line of duty this past November, just weeks away 
from his retirement, leaving behind his wife, his son, and his 
daughter. We can never fully express our gratitude or repay the debt 
for their service.
  I would also like to honor those who serve in law enforcement along 
our border. While not every community in America has the proximity to 
the border that my district does, we all benefit from the courage of 
CBP officers and Border Patrol agents. Last August, we lost Border 
Patrol Agent Manuel Alvarez, who is survived by his wife and four 
children. Just over a week ago, we lost CBP Officer Edgard Garcia, who 
was well loved by our Tucson community.
  We owe these men and their families for their ultimate sacrifice, and 
we owe a debt of gratitude to those who serve us today and every day in 
uniform.

                          ____________________



