

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 85 (Wednesday, May 17, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 85 (Wednesday, May 17, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4231]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  HABITAT FOR HUMANITY HELPS VETERANS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Fitzpatrick). The Chair recognizes the 
gentleman from West Virginia (Mr. Jenkins) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. JENKINS of West Virginia. Mr. Speaker, too many men and women who 
have served our Nation in uniform find themselves without stable, 
secure housing. Statistics show a veteran is almost twice as likely as 
a civilian to experience homelessness.
  I rise today to recognize the work the Huntington, West Virginia, 
Area Habitat for Humanity is doing to reduce veterans' homelessness 
thanks to its Veterans Housing Initiative. Because of this Habitat 
initiative and support from the Huntington VA Medical Center's Homeless 
Veterans Resource Center, veterans can now make down payments and 
complete volunteer hours to buy their homes.
  I recently toured some of the homes built through this program in the 
historic Fairfield neighborhood in my hometown of Huntington. So far, 
10 homes have been built, and 5 are now called home by veterans and 
their families.
  The housing not only helps veterans, but it also helps the community. 
These homes will help revitalize the neighborhood, an area filled with 
possibilities. It also frees up more housing for other veterans in 
need. As a veteran moves into one of these homes, his or her previous 
rental or apartment or room is now available to someone else in need.
  I am grateful to all the Habitat volunteers and staff who are part of 
this life-changing project. Thank you for what you are doing to give 
back to those who gave so much for our Nation. Veterans in Huntington 
now have a brighter future and a path to homeownership.

                          ____________________



