

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 90 (Wednesday, May 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 90 (Wednesday, May 24, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4512]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           HUMAN TRAFFICKING

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Fitzpatrick) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to bring attention to the 
statistics of human trafficking, and they are shocking: an estimated 21 
million victims globally, a quarter of them children, and the majority 
of them women, resulting in a $150 billion criminal industry predicated 
on the destruction of lives.
  This criminal conduct may seem a world away, but it is not. It exists 
right here in our own backyards. Just last year, the human trafficking 
hotline reported 151 cases of human trafficking in our State of 
Pennsylvania. This week the House can--and must--act in a bipartisan 
fashion to support and bolster antihuman trafficking programs, 
upgrading our Nation's response to this crime.
  By empowering nonprofits like NOVA and the Bucks Coalition Against 
Trafficking, and ensuring our local law enforcement's ability to 
identify and prosecute those cases, these bills will provide services 
to victims of human trafficking and aid in apprehending the world's 
worst offenders.


           Honoring the Life of Sheriff's Deputy Keith Clymer

  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of Bucks 
County Sheriff's Deputy Keith Clymer of Kintnersville, who our 
community lost last week when his motorcycle was struck by another 
vehicle.
  Deputy Clymer joined the Bucks County Sheriff's Office in 2013, and 
he was assigned to the domestic relations warrant unit. He also served 
as a self-defense tactics instructor. As the sheriff's office noted in 
the announcement of his tragedy, Keith was liked by all who met and 
worked with him and will be sorely missed by all.
  Mr. Speaker, the loss of any member of our law enforcement community 
is heartbreaking, but the loss of Deputy Clymer, as we recognize 
National Police Week, both here in our Nation's Capital and around my 
district, draws special focus to those who serve and protect our 
communities.
  My thoughts and prayers are with his sons, his family, and all those 
who Keith impacted, both personally and professionally. He lived his 
life serving and protecting us. For that, Mr. Speaker, we are eternally 
grateful.

                          ____________________



