

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 102 (Thursday, June 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 102 (Thursday, June 15, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3553]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          TRIBUTE TO PAM MOORE

 Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this week I have the distinct honor 
of recognizing Pam Moore, the Benchmark plant manager in Lewis and 
Clark County. Pam has spent many years supervising a staff of hard-
working Montanans doing their best to produce useful products for a 
variety of government agencies.
  For well over three decades, the Benchmark Manufacturing Plant in 
Helena has produced tens of thousands of backpacks that have been 
distributed across the United States. For nearly 18 years, Pam has 
supervised production at the plant. Over half of Pam's team at the 
plant are disabled Montanans, and that team has done highly respectable 
work under her guidance. Their quality products help U.S. Forest 
Service wildland firefighters carry their equipment. With our abundant 
forests in Montana, we know how important it is to have the proper 
equipment in the hands of our firefighters, and over the years, the 
employees at the Benchmark Manufacturing Plant have had abundant 
success getting the right equipment to the right customer. For that, we 
are very grateful.
  Montanans have earned a well-deserved reputation for being reliable 
and hard-working, and Pam and her team are great examples of that 
assessment. When asked about her favorite part of the job, Pam said she 
enjoys that her teammates are able to work. Valuing work is a Montana 
tradition. Thank you, Pam, for having a steady hand helping others to 
overcome obstacles, reach their potential, and get the job 
done.

                          ____________________



