

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 80 (Tuesday, May 9, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 80 (Tuesday, May 9, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2848]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I have two requests for committees to 
meet during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of 
the Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to Rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


                      committee on armed services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, May 9, 2017, at 9:30 a.m., in open 
and closed sessions, to receive testimony on United States Cyber 
Command.


                      committee on armed services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, May 9, 2017, at 2:30 p.m., in open 
session to consider nominations.


                     committee on foreign relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, May 9, 2017, at 10 a.m.


                     committee on foreign relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, May 9, 2017, at 10:15 a.m., to hold a 
hearing entitled ``Nominations.''


                       committee on intelligence

  The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet 
during the session of the 115th Congress of the U.S. Senate on Tuesday, 
May 9, 2017 at 2:30 p.m., in room SH-219 of the Senate Hart Office 
Building.


      Subcommittee on surface transportation and merchant marine 
                  infrastructure, safety and security

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to hold a meeting during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, May 9, 
2017, at 2:30 p.m. in room 253 of the Russell Senate Office Building.
  The Committee will hold Subcommittee Hearing on ``Maritime 
Transportation: Opportunities and Challenges for the Maritime 
Administration and Federal Maritime Commission.''


       Committee on Environment and Public Works Subcommittee on 
                   Transportation and Infrastructure

  The Subcommittee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the 
Committee on Environment and Public Works is authorized to meet during 
the session of the Senate on Tuesday, May 9, 2017, at 2:30 p.m., in 
Room 406 of the Dirksen Senate office building, to conduct a hearing 
entitled, ``Water Resources: The Role of the Public and Private 
Sectors.''
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The majority leader.

                          ____________________



