

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 91 (Thursday, May 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 91 (Thursday, May 25, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3208]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




           150TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE MAINE DENTAL ASSOCIATION

  Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, the Maine Dental Association was 
incorporated in 1867 with 22 members. Today I wish to recognize the MDA 
and its more than 700 members for 150 years of dedication to their 
profession and to the people of our State.
  The remarkable advancements in dentistry over the years were 
accompanied by a greater understanding of the link between oral health 
and overall health. As doctors who specialize in oral medicine, the 
dentists of the MDA are a central part of Maine's healthcare sector. 
Expanding access to healthcare, including oral healthcare, is among the 
most important issues facing our society. Maine is a large, rural State 
with a strong network of dental clinics supported by MDA members. In 
addition, the MDA sponsors the Donated Dental Services Program that 
provides free comprehensive care to our disabled, aged, and medically 
compromised citizens in need.
  Access to oral healthcare in Maine took a major step forward on May 
20, 2017, when the University of New England College of Dental Medicine 
held a commencement ceremony for its first graduating class. The MDA 
has been a strong supporter of this first dental college in northern 
New England since the college was founded in 2013, and many of the 62 
graduates who earned doctor of dental medicine degrees performed 
clinical rotations in communities throughout the State under the 
guidance of MDA members. I visited the Portland UNE clinic and was 
delighted to learn of the plans of many students to practice in Maine 
where their services are very much needed. From preventing and treating 
oral health problems to educating parents and caregivers, MDA members 
also play an essential role in the health, safety, and well-being of 
Maine children.
  Throughout our State, members of the Maine Dental Association provide 
vital healthcare with expertise, commitment, and compassion. It is a 
pleasure to congratulate the MDA for 150 years of accomplishments and 
contributions benefiting the people of Maine.

                          ____________________



