

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 97 (Wednesday, June 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 97 (Wednesday, June 7, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3302]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         SANCTIONS LEGISLATION

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, first on Iran and Russia: This week we 
will be considering bipartisan legislation to impose sanctions on Iran 
for its ballistic missile testing, for its human rights abuses, and for 
its overt support of terrorism. I support this and look forward to a 
vote on the measure. It is important we do it.
  I also understand that the majority leader will consent to an 
amendment vote alongside that bill on bipartisan Russia sanctions 
legislation. There is a broad bipartisan consensus for moving forward 
on tough sanctions against Russia. Russia defied the sovereignty of the 
Ukraine with the annexation of Crimea. It has been accused of human 
rights abuses including propping up the brutal Assad regime in Syria, 
and of course the intelligence community has confirmed that Russia 
interfered with our democracy.
  I appreciate that the majority leader has committed to having a vote 
on Russia sanctions, and I thank so many of my colleagues on the other 
side of the aisle for pushing this issue. It is the right thing to do, 
and I appreciate them doing it.
  I strongly believe that Russia's sanctions legislation needs to do 
three important things. First, we must codify existing sanctions on 
Russia; second, we need to give Congress a chance to review any 
decision by this administration before sanctions are lifted; and, 
third, we need to impose tough, new sanctions on Russia for its attack 
on our democracy.
  Two pieces of legislation, one posted by the two lead sponsors, 
Senators McCain and Cardin, the other by Senators Graham and Cardin--
both bipartisan and both, I believe, with at least 10 cosponsors from 
each side of the aisle--do these things. What we have suggested to the 
leader is that we put those two bills together and combine them, tweak 
them a little bit, and move forward. We await the answer from the 
majority leader on our proposal.
  It is certainly our responsibility and the responsibility of this 
Congress to vote on the tough Russia sanctions bill as a response to 
Russia's persistent violations of international norms and agreements.
  If we do nothing on Russia or if we have a weak bill, we will not 
accomplish that goal, and Mr. Putin will continue to do everything he 
is doing. We know sanctions have bite with Russia. If the Russians see 
that this Congress, in a bipartisan way, is resolute and strong, it 
will make a difference, and I hope we move forward.

                          ____________________



