

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 123 (Thursday, July 20, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 123 (Thursday, July 20, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S4110]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          PRESIDENTIAL MESSAGE

                                 ______
                                 

  REPORT RELATIVE TO THE CONTINUATION OF THE NATIONAL EMERGENCY WITH 
 RESPECT TO SIGNIFICANT TRANSNATIONAL CRIMINAL ORGANIZATIONS THAT WAS 
      ESTABLISHED IN EXECUTIVE ORDER 13581 ON JULY 24, 2011--PM 14

  The PRESIDING OFFICER laid before the Senate the following message 
from the President of the United States, together with an accompanying 
report; which was referred to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
Urban Affairs:

To the Congress of the United States:
  Section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) 
provides for the automatic termination of a national emergency unless, 
within 90 days prior to the anniversary date of its declaration, the 
President publishes in the Federal Register and transmits to the 
Congress a notice stating that the emergency is to continue in effect 
beyond the anniversary date. In accordance with this provision, I have 
sent to the Federal Register for publication the enclosed notice 
stating that the national emergency with respect to significant 
transnational criminal organizations declared in Executive Order 13581 
of July 24, 2011, is to continue in effect beyond July 24, 2017. This 
notice superseded the notice regarding this topic submitted to the 
Federal Register on July 19, 2017.
  The activities of significant transnational criminal organizations 
have reached such scope and gravity that they threaten the stability of 
international political and economic systems. Such organizations are 
increasingly sophisticated and dangerous to the United States; they are 
increasingly entrenched in the operations of foreign governments and 
the international financial system, thereby weakening democratic 
institutions, degrading the rule of law, and undermining economic 
markets. These organizations facilitate and aggravate violent civil 
conflicts and increasingly facilitate the activities of other dangerous 
persons.
  The activities of significant transnational criminal organizations 
continue to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national 
security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States. Therefore, 
I have determined that it is necessary to continue the national 
emergency declared in Executive Order 13581 with respect to 
transnational criminal organizations.
                                                     Donald J. Trump.  
The White House, July 20, 2017.

                          ____________________



