

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 79 (Monday, May 8, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 79 (Monday, May 8, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2798]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                  RECOGNIZING FLEWELLING FAMILY FARMS

 Mr. KING. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize Flewelling 
Farms, who has been designated family farm of the year and McCain's 
``Grower of the Year.'' Farms and farm families are essential assets to 
my home State of Maine--not just for the tremendous economic benefits 
the agriculture industry has, but also for the rich heritage and work 
ethic that makes up the communities where generations have plowed the 
lands. Maine agriculture is more diversified than in many States, and 
on any given day, you can drive past acres of potatoes, grains, large 
dairy farms, small truck farms, and even smaller value added farms 
producing cheese, breads, and maple syrup, as well as conventional 
farms, organic farms, and even farms raising oysters, seaweed, and 
salmon.
  From now until the farm bill is passed, I want to take the 
opportunity to talk about Maine farms and farmers, their creativity, 
ingenuity, perseverance, and ability to grow amazing food and fiber on 
what can often be hard scrabble land with a solid crop of rocks and 
trees always watching for the opportunity to creep back on to land that 
was cleared long ago by hard work.
  I want to begin in the agricultural county of Maine, Aroostook 
County. The potato is king in Aroostook County, ME--the large farms and 
relatively flat fertile land produce 16 million pounds of seed, chip, 
and table stock potatoes on nearly 50,000 acres, generating thousands 
of jobs and infuse millions of dollars into the economy of the State of 
Maine.
  While agriculture is indeed valuable and essential to tables across 
the Nation and the world, community and farm families are what really 
makes northern Maine a special place. I am pleased to honor one such 
family today, the Jerry and Bruce Flewelling family of Easton. The 
Flewelling family was named the ``2016 Farm Family of the Year'' by the 
Maine Potato Board and the McCain's ``Champion Grower of 2016'' as 
well. These recognitions are given for the quality of product and 
commitment to the industry, but also for the heart and hardiness of the 
family who, through trials and tribulations of unpredictable weather 
and markets, keeps their drive for excellence at the forefront of every 
day. The Flewellings have been doing this for six generations. The 
first Flewellings arrived in this country from Wales in the late 1800s, 
entering the United States near where the family farm is today.
  They have experienced tremendous change in how potatoes are grown, 
harvested, and stored, but by being ready to implement best practices, 
new technologies, and innovation, they have grown the farm and its 
quality and productivity and are able to carry on the strong tradition 
of agriculture in Maine.
  In addition to being an exceptional small business, the family 
members are active community members as well. They serve on municipal 
boards, Maine Pesticide Control Board, Agricultural Bargaining Council, 
as well as Maine Potato Growers. They are a strong voice for future 
generations of farmers and are mentors to other farmers, as well always 
encouraging others and sharing their expertise.
  For these reasons and many more not listed here, I offer my 
congratulations to Jerry and Bruce and their family on the continuation 
of an exceptional farm and best wishes as they continue to instill a 
legacy of hard work and exceptional crops for future generations to 
come.

                          ____________________



