

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 116 (Tuesday, July 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 116 (Tuesday, July 11, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3914]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    TRIBUTE TO ROSEMARY E. RODRIGUEZ

  Mr. BENNET. Mr. President, I wish to recognize a dedicated community 
leader, civil servant, and dear friend, Rosemary E. Rodriguez. She most 
recently served as my State director and senior adviser. Throughout her 
life, Rosemary has displayed a genuine and consistent commitment to 
strengthening our State and our country.
  Rosemary began her career as a legal assistant at two of Denver's 
most prominent law firms. Also, during the early stages of her career, 
Rosemary began her lifelong commitment to the Latino community as she 
helped form the Hispanic League, an organization that strives to be a 
liaison between the non-Hispanic and Hispanic communities. Rosemary 
began her career in government in 1992, working for Mayor Wellington 
Webb's administration. She served in several roles during her time with 
the mayor, such as deputy director of the mayor's Office of Arts, 
Culture & Film, Denver County clerk and recorder, and director of 
boards and commissions.
  In 2003, she was elected to the Denver City Council. Later, her peers 
on the council elected her as president. In 2007, she began to work on 
the Election Assistance Commission. In this capacity, she worked to 
preserve the integrity of our national elections and increase access to 
our most fundamental right to vote. She chaired the commission in 2008.
  In 2009, Rosemary became an invaluable part of my staff as State 
director and did a tremendous job representing our office and 
connecting with communities across Colorado. When I wasn't able to 
attend an event, I was always confident that Rosemary would convey our 
team's values and perspectives on any number of issues. I also counted 
on her advice whether it related to women's issues, immigration reform, 
or other issues of importance to the Latino community. Most recently, 
she was elected to the Denver School Board where she continues to serve 
Colorado's kids.
  Due to her dedication to the people of Colorado, Rosemary has 
received several awards including the Mi Casa Resource Center's 
Volunteerism Award, the Anti-Defamation League's Passing the Torch 
Award, and the Denver Public Library's Cesar Chavez Hall of Fame Award.
  I have been honored to work with my friend Rosemary for the past 8 
years. Her intellect, creativity, and compassion should serve as an 
example for all those who serve. I wish her the best in her future 
endeavors, and I fully intend to count on her advice and perspectives 
for years to come.

                          ____________________



