

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 99 (Monday, June 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 99 (Monday, June 12, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3393]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




   COUNTERING IRAN'S DESTABILIZING ACTIVITIES ACT OF 2017--Continued


                           Amendment No. 232

       (Purpose: To impose sanctions with respect to the Russian 
     Federation and to combat terrorism and illicit financing.)

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I call up amendment No. 232.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will report.
  The legislative clerk read as follows:

       The Senator from Kentucky [Mr. McConnell], for Mr. Crapo, 
     proposes an amendment numbered 232.

  Mr. McCONNELL. I ask unanimous consent that the reading of the 
amendment be dispensed with.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  (The amendment is printed in today's Record under ``Text of 
Amendments.'')
  Mr. McCONNELL. I ask for the yeas and nays on the amendment.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a sufficient second?
  There appears to be a sufficient second.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.


                             Cloture Motion

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I have a cloture motion at the desk.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The cloture motion having been presented under 
rule XXII, the Chair directs the clerk to read the motion.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read as follows:


                             Cloture Motion

       We, the undersigned Senators, in accordance with the 
     provisions of rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the Senate, 
     do hereby move to bring to a close debate on Senate amendment 
     No. 232 to Calendar No. 110, S. 722, a bill to impose 
     sanctions with respect to Iran in relation to Iran's 
     ballistic missile program, support for acts of international 
     terrorism, and violations of human rights, and for other 
     purposes.
         Mitch McConnell, Lamar Alexander, Mike Crapo, Luther 
           Strange, Cory Gardner, John Cornyn, Orrin G. Hatch, 
           James M. Inhofe, John Thune, Roger F. Wicker, John 
           Hoeven, Roy Blunt, Richard C. Shelby, Pat Roberts, Mike 
           Rounds, Lisa Murkowski, Bob Corker.

  Mr. McCONNELL. I ask unanimous consent that the mandatory quorum call 
be waived.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                 Amendment No. 233 to Amendment No. 232

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I have a second-degree amendment at the 
desk.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will report.
  The legislative clerk read as follows:

       The Senator from Kentucky [Mr. McConnell] proposes an 
     amendment numbered 233 to amendment No. 232.

  Mr. McCONNELL. I ask unanimous consent that the reading of the 
amendment be dispensed with.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The amendment is as follows:

       At the end add the following:
       ``This Act shall take effect 1 day after the date of 
     enactment.''


                      Joint Referral of Nomination

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, as in executive session, I ask 
unanimous consent that the nomination of Elizabeth Erin Walsh, of the 
District of Columbia, to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce and 
Director General of the United States and Foreign Commercial Service, 
sent to the Senate by the President, be referred jointly to the 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs and the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                           Order of Procedure

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that following 
leader remarks on Tuesday, June 13, Senator Paul or his designee be 
recognized to make a motion to discharge S.J. Res. 42; that debate on 
the motion be equally divided between the proponents and opponents 
until 12:30 p.m.; that the Senate recess from 12:30 p.m. until 2:15 
p.m. for the weekly conference meetings, and at 2:15 p.m. there be 10 
minutes of debate remaining on the motion to discharge the resolution, 
equally divided between Senator Paul or his designee and the opponents; 
and that following the use or yielding back of time, the Senate vote in 
relation to the motion to discharge.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

                          ____________________



