

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 76 (Wednesday, May 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 76 (Wednesday, May 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2719]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   TRIBUTE TO BERNADETTE GRAY-LITTLE

 Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, today I wish to honor University of 
Kansas Chancellor Bernadette Gray-Little, a chancellor who has made a 
significant impact on both the university and our State.
  This summer, Chancellor Gray-Little will step down from her 8-year 
term serving as the 17th chancellor of KU. Serving since 2009, she has 
expanded important research opportunities, elevated the university's 
national stature, and transformed the way KU serves the State, and the 
world.
  Under Chancellor Gray-Little's direction, research has increased and 
provided greater opportunities for our Kansas students. KU's 
Alzheimer's Disease Center became nationally recognized, while the KU 
Cancer Center achieved National Cancer Institute designation and is now 
taking an important step in pursuing a ``Comprehensive'' status 
designation.
  In her 8 years at KU, Chancellor Gray-Little has advanced the 
university's mission to educate leaders by implementing new admissions 
standards, launching a new undergraduate curriculum, strengthening 
scholarship offerings, prioritizing retention and graduation rates, 
growing the freshman class for 5 consecutive years, reinvigorating the 
academic environment, and making the university a true ``community of 
scholars.''
  The university's growth under Chancellor Gray-Little's administration 
is plainly visible in the number of renovations that have taken place 
and the new buildings on campus. Support for Capitol Federal Hall, the 
Health Education Building, Self and Oswald Halls, the Central District 
Redevelopment Project, the DeBruce Center and the Earth, Energy & 
Environment Center, as well as major renovations to Swarthout Recital 
Hall, the Spencer Museum of Art, and Jayhawk Boulevard, all stand as 
testaments to her vision for the future of KU.
  While her term as chancellor will be remembered for her numerous 
successes and achievements, Chancellor Gray-Little will also be 
remembered as the first female and first African-American chancellor in 
the university's history.
  Chancellor Gray-Little has led the university with remarkable 
dignity, grace, and humility. She serves as a role model and an 
inspiration to students, staff, faculty, and colleagues throughout the 
State and Nation. I am grateful to have worked with her to improve the 
University of Kansas and our State, and I wish her well as she moves on 
to new endeavors.

                          ____________________



