

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 71 (Wednesday, April 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 71 (Wednesday, April 26, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2549-S2550]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                        REMEMBERING INA M. BOON

 Mrs. McCASKILL. Mr. President, I ask the Senate to join me 
today in honoring the life of Ina Boon, a beloved member of the St. 
Louis community. With her passing, Ina has left a powerful legacy of 
public service that will always be cherished, and St. Louis will not be 
the same without her.
  In addition to being a wife, a mother, and dear friend to so many, 
Ina was a

[[Page S2550]]

fighter. Not the kind you see shuffling in rings on television; Ina was 
a special kind of warrior. Her weapons were her voice, her feet, and, 
as anyone who knew her would tell you, her tenacious nature. Her cause 
was one that is dear and relevant to every American--true freedom, 
equality, and justice for all. For decades, Ina fought on the front 
lines of the civil rights movement for justice and equality for all 
citizens in my home State of Missouri and in numerous other States 
throughout the country.
  For more than 50 years, Ina was the fearless leader who served 
tirelessly at the helm of the St. Louis NAACP Region IV branch. Whether 
she was advocating for diversity and inclusion in hiring and housing 
practices, fighting for equal access and fair treatment in healthcare 
and education, or helping young people find jobs and urging them to 
register to vote, Ina's life reveals an inspiring commitment to social 
change and progress.
  Her half-century record of service provides a clear example of how 
much good can be accomplished with a steadfast and caring spirit. At 
the same time, Ina's life shows the selfless and generous heart of a 
public servant. When times were lean at NAACP, Ina worked hard and 
faithfully while giving up her pay. Additionally, even though she was 
committed to large-scale, systemic social changes across the State and 
country, Ina was equally committed to her family and her neighbors. She 
nurtured her son, mentored young people, and remained active in her 
church, serving in various leadership positions.
  Ina recently passed away at the age of 90. She was blessed to live a 
long life and bear witness to some incredible historic moments in our 
State's history and our country's history as well. I know that Ina was 
humbled to play a role in some of these moments. With Ina's passing, we 
have lost a prolific public servant and a dynamic individual. Ina is 
survived by her son Gentry, as well as nieces, nephews, grandchildren, 
great-grandchildren, and a host of extended family members and friends.
  It may come as small comfort to them, but Ina will forever be a part 
of St. Louis history. She will always be remembered for her leadership, 
passion, and activism. Right now, many of my fellow Missourians are 
justifiably saddened by the loss of one of our local champions, but my 
hope is that Ina's legacy will inspire current and future generations 
of leaders to continue the vitally important work of perfecting our 
vibrant, diverse Union.
  I ask that the Senate join me in honoring the life and legacy of Mrs. 
Ina M. Boon.

                          ____________________



