

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 60 (Thursday, April 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 60 (Thursday, April 6, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2770]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




         CONGRATULATIONS TO SID MARTIN BIOTECHNOLOGY INSTITUTE

  (Mr. YOHO asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I would like to take this time to recognize 
the Sid Martin Biotechnology Institute, a leading biotechnology 
incubator headquartered in Alachua, Florida, in conjunction with the 
University of Florida, in my home district. The Sid Martin 
Biotechnology Institute focuses on promoting the growth of innovative, 
early-stage bioscience and biotechnology companies and technology-based 
economic development in and around my district.
  Over the past 20 years, this institute has worked with more than 100 
startup companies in biotechnology, biomedicine, and bioagriculture, 
and it has created over 200 high-tech jobs. The survival rate of the 
companies in this program have a 93 percent survival rate, creating a 
successful business community in north central Florida area.
  Their dedication to these causes has not gone unnoticed. Recently, 
Sid Martin Biotechnology Institute was awarded the Randall M. Whaley 
Incubator of the Year award for 2017, the highest award given by the 
International Business Innovation Association. This institute was named 
Incubator of the Year among more than 7,500 incubators worldwide. This 
is the second time the Sid Martin Biotechnology Institute has received 
this award, and, additionally, they have also been awarded Technology/
Science Incubator of the Year.
  I would like to congratulate them on their accomplishment and thank 
them for their positive and meaningful contributions to Florida's Third 
Congressional District.

                          ____________________



