

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 85 (Wednesday, May 17, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 85 (Wednesday, May 17, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4233]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  RECOGNITION OF NATIONAL POLICE WEEK

  (Mr. RYAN of Wisconsin asked and was given permission to address the 
House for 1 minute.)
  Mr. RYAN of Wisconsin. Mr. Speaker, I am proud to stand before the 
House today to recognize National Police Week.
  Every year at this time, law enforcement officials from around the 
country gather here to pay tribute to their fallen brethren and to 
stand with their families. It is yet another measure of their 
commitment to protect and serve.
  Over just this last year, four of Wisconsin's finest have lost their 
lives in the line of duty: Trooper Anthony Borostowski of the Wisconsin 
State Patrol; Deputy Dan Glaze of the Rusk County Sheriff's Office; 
Officer Michael Venture of the Town of Salem's Department of Public 
Safety; Detective Jason Weiland of the Everest Metropolitan Police 
Department.
  Earlier this year, Detective Weiland was killed establishing a 
perimeter during a standoff with a shooter who took the lives of three 
people. Jason left behind a wife and two children.
  Anna, his daughter, almost 11 years old, spoke at the funeral: ``Our 
dad was an amazing man that saved lives every day,'' she said. ``We all 
know he is always and will be forever in our hearts. He'll be looking 
down on us, laughing and crying.''
  Looking down that day, Anna's dad saw some remarkable things: He saw 
thousands of people, many of whom he had never met, lined up to pay 
their respects; he saw cops in uniform from all over the country, from 
New York, Chicago, Oregon, and Canada; he saw mourners and even 
pallbearers in green and gold to honor his love of the Green Bay 
Packers; and he saw blue ribbons everywhere.
  In a time when law enforcement is targeted and too often politicized, 
we must never take for granted the dangers that they face. Every day 
and every night, they leave their homes and their families to protect 
ours. They put their lives on the line to protect ours.
  For their loved ones, all they hope for, all they pray for, is to 
hear the car pull into the driveway and see that familiar face come 
through the door.
  And when the unspeakable happens, when their watch is cut short, ours 
is only beginning. The support that we give to their families, the 
respect and the appreciation we show for their fellow officers--it is 
the least we can do as citizens, and must do, this week and every week.
  Today I ask the whole House to join me in expressing our profound 
gratitude to law enforcement officers here in the Capital and across 
the Nation.

                          ____________________



