

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 118 (Thursday, July 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 118 (Thursday, July 13, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3991]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    REMEMBERING KENNETH ENGEBRETSON

 Mr. TESTER. Mr. President, today I wish to honor the life of 
Kenneth Engebretson, a lifelong Montanan--born and raised--and a 
veteran who served in World War II.
  To Kenneth's family, on behalf of myself, my fellow Montanans, and my 
fellow Americans, I would like to extend our deepest gratitude for 
Kenneth's service to this Nation.
  Kenneth was born in 1919 to Oliver and Tena Engebretson in South 
Gildford, MT. He was raised on the family farm that was homesteaded by 
his parents in 1910. Kenneth graduated from Gildford High School in 
1937 and set out from home to explore his country.
  After graduation he went to Dalton, MN, to work on his uncle's farm. 
He enlisted in the Army on October 16, 1941, out of Fergus Falls, MN. 
He was initially stationed at Fort Sill, OK, and then at Fort Leonard 
Wood, MO.
  Kenneth went on to serve in World War II from 1941 to 1944 in the 
Philippines and New Guinea. While deployed, Kenneth contracted malaria 
and was hospitalized. As a result of the illness, Kenneth was 
discharged in November of 1945 and immediately returned to the Havre 
area to help on the family farm in Gildford, MT. He remained on the 
farm to raise a family of his own.
  He was proudly involved in the Veterans of Foreign Wars organization 
and remained an active member until his passing on October 10, 1993. 
Kenneth left behind a deeply appreciative and loving family, and his 
memory is preserved in the living history of the Engebretson family 
farm.
  Let us now take a moment to recognize the life of Kenneth Engebretson 
and the legacy he left behind. We deeply appreciate his service to the 
American people.

                          ____________________



