

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 106 (Wednesday, June 21, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 106 (Wednesday, June 21, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H5001]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




CONGRATULATIONS TO PENNSBURY HIGH SCHOOL BASEBALL TEAM ON WINNING STATE 
                                 TITLE

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Fitzpatrick) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the 
Pennsbury High School baseball team on winning their first State title 
on June 16, 2017.
  After withstanding a rain delay of nearly 3\1/2\ hours, the Pennsbury 
Falcons triumphed over District 3 Dallastown in the PIAA Class 6A final 
at Penn State University. Thanks to Nick Price's single in the bottom 
of the seventh, the Falcons avoided extra innings and emerged on top, 
winning the game 1-0.
  Pennsbury ended the season on 13 straight wins. Their pitching staff 
gave up one run in the playoffs, and zero runs in the last 30 innings. 
Billy Bethel was 4-0 with 0 earned runs in 27 innings in the district 
and State playoffs.
  Mr. Speaker, it was Michael Jordan who said: ``Talent wins games, but 
teamwork and intelligence win championships.'' The Pennsbury Falcons 
are something special, led by 13 seniors and Head Coach Joe Pesci. They 
should be extremely proud--not only for their accomplishments on the 
field, but also the pride that they brought to their families, to their 
school, and to the entire Eighth Congressional District.
  Mr. Speaker, I include in the Congressional Record the individual 
names of the PIAA 6A Championship Pennsbury High School Falcon baseball 
team.

       R.J. Huth, Jake Martell, Christian Buchler, Gary Minnes, 
     Vaughn Ward, Alan Wolf, Josh Tesarck, Max Crawn, Bryan Nagy, 
     Justin Ward, Ryan McCarty, Josh Arruda, Alec Wilson, Nick 
     Price, Tommy Erickson, Shane Ostrowsky, Nate Derry, Ben 
     Spadea, Justin Massielo, Kyle Dear, Dave Murphy, Billy 
     Bethel, Tyrone Hodges Jr, Alex Ritter.

  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, these young men have shown us what 
success can look like on the baseball field, and I am confident that 
they will succeed in all of their future endeavors, continuing to make 
all of us in Bucks County proud.

                          ____________________



