

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 91 (Thursday, May 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 91 (Thursday, May 25, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3160]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              MEMORIAL DAY

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, as we approach the Memorial Day 
weekend, we are reminded of the great sacrifices so many men and women 
in uniform have made on our behalf throughout the years. The 
servicemembers whose memory we honor paid the ultimate price in 
defending our Nation, our families, and our freedom. We are forever 
indebted to them. But as we reflect upon the fallen soldiers, sailors, 
airmen, and marines, we are also reminded of the responsibility we have 
to the heroes who have returned home--our veterans.
  I don't have to tell colleagues how important keeping our commitment 
to our veterans is. We have an All-Volunteer Force. We cannot break 
faith with the Americans who bravely and willingly fight on our behalf. 
One way we can honor them is by working to ensure that they receive the 
quality, timely care they need through the Department of Veterans 
Affairs. That is why, after the State work period, we will be taking up 
a bipartisan bill reported out of committee just yesterday that will 
enhance accountability at the VA, improve the care veterans receive, 
and empower the VA with the tools necessary to remove employees who are 
failing to perform at the high-quality level our Nation's heroes richly 
deserve. Importantly, this bill--the Department of Veterans Affairs 
Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act--will build on progress 
we have already made with the 2014 Veterans Access, Choice, and 
Accountability Act.
  We know that many challenges remain in ensuring that veterans have 
access to the care they need and deserve at the VA, but this 
legislation will further improve our ability to meet our commitment to 
them. I appreciate Chairman Isakson for his continued efficacy on 
behalf of our veterans, as well as Senator Rubio for his leadership on 
this critical legislation. I look forward to the full Senate taking up 
the bill and passing it soon.

                          ____________________



