

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 90 (Wednesday, May 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 90 (Wednesday, May 24, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3137]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              TRIBUTE TO MAJOR GENERAL LAURA J. RICHARDSON



 =========================== NOTE =========================== 

  
  On page S3137, May 24, 2017, near the bottom of the first 
column, the following language appears: TRIBUTE TO MAJOR GENERAL 
LAURA J. RICHARSON
  
  The online Record has been corrected to read: TRIBUTE TO MAJOR 
GENERAL LAURA J. RICHARDSON


 ========================= END NOTE ========================= 

  Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President today I wish pay tribute to a great leader 
and an exceptional Army officer, MG Laura J. Richardson, the Chief 
Legislative Liaison for the Office of the Secretary of the Army, as she 
prepares to leave this position for one of even greater importance.
  Major General Richardson has served our Army and our Nation for more 
than 30 years. She was a true professional--a dedicated soldier, 
leader, officer, spouse, and mother. Throughout her career, she 
commanded our great soldiers at many levels, deployed to combat 
numerous times in defense of our Nation, and was assigned to some of 
the most critical positions in our military. As the Army's Chief 
Legislative Liaison, Major General Richardson continues to provide 
outstanding leadership, advice, and sound professional judgment on 
numerous critical issues of enduring importance to the Army, Congress, 
and this Nation.
  A native of Colorado, Major General Richardson was commissioned a 
second lieutenant of aviation upon graduation from Metropolitan State 
College in Denver. Her first assignment after flight school was in 
Korea with the 17th Aviation Brigade, where she served as a platoon 
leader, company executive officer, brigade staff officer, and company 
commander. She next served at Fort Hood, TX, on the III Corps staff and 
in the 6th Cavalry Brigade as a company commander and brigade adjutant. 
In 1999, General Richardson was selected to serve as the military aide 
to Vice President Al Gore at the White House in Washington, DC. 
Following that assignment, she moved to Fort Campbell, KY, to serve as 
the Division Deputy G-3 of the 101st Airborne Division, Air Assault, 
and later commanded the 5th Battalion, 101st Aviation Regiment, 
including a deployment to Iraq in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom.
  Major General Richardson has served in a variety of joint and Army 
staff positions to include: an assault helicopter battalion operations 
officer and executive officer; deputy director, then director for the 
Army's Transformation Office; and the Army's liaison officer to the 
U.S. Senate. She also served as the garrison commander of Fort McNair 
and Fort Myer, VA.
  Major General Richardson's assignments as a general officer include 
commanding general of the U.S. Army Operational Test Command, deputy 
commanding general of the 1st Cavalry Division at Fort Hood, TX, and 
most recently, deputy chief of staff for communications with 
Headquarters, International Security Assistance Force, ISAF, in support 
of Operation Enduring Freedom, Afghanistan.
  For the past 3 years, Major General Richardson was the Chief of the 
U.S. Army Legislative Liaison. During this period of extraordinary 
change and challenge for the Army, Major General Richardson implemented 
and fostered improved strategic partnership with Congress. Through her 
leadership, the Army significantly enhanced relationships with both 
legislative chambers, improving understanding and broadening 
congressional support for Army priorities. Major General Richardson 
managed some of the most complex issues our Army faced through three 
legislative cycles with unparalleled results, enabling the Army to 
receive the necessary resources to support combat operations in two 
theaters of war, sustain the All-Volunteer Force, and improve the 
quality of life for our soldiers, their families, and our civilians.
  On behalf of Congress and the United States of America, I thank 
Laura, her husband, MG Jim Richardson, and their entire family for 
their continued commitment, sacrifice, and contribution to this great 
nation. I join my colleagues in wishing her future success as she 
continues to serve our great Army and Nation.

                          ____________________



