

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 82 (Thursday, May 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 82 (Thursday, May 11, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2921]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I have 8 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


           committee on agriculture, nutrition, and forestry

  The Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, May 11, 2017 at 
9:30 a.m., in 328A Russell Senate Office Building, in order to conduct 
a hearing entitled ``Pesticide Registration under the Federal 
Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act: Providing Stakeholders 
with Certainty through the Pesticide Registration Improvement Act.''


                      committee on armed services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, May 11, 2017, at 9:30 a.m., in open 
session, to receive testimony on Cyber Policy, Strategy, and 
Organization.


            committee on banking, housing and urban affairs

  The Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, May 11, 2017 at 10 
a.m. to conduct a hearing entitled ``The Status of the Housing Finance 
System After Nine Years of Conservatorship.''


          committee on health, education, labor, and pensions

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is authorized 
to meet in executive session during the session of the Senate on 
Wednesday, May 11, at 9:30 a.m. in SD-106.


                       committee on the judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate, on May 11, 2017, at 10 a.m., in SD-226 of the 
Dirksen Senate Office Building.


                      committee on small business

  The Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate Thursday, May 11, 2017 at 10:30 
a.m. in 428A Russell Senate Office Building to conduct a hearing 
entitled ``Nomination of Althea H. Coetzee to be Deputy Administrator 
of the Small Business Administration.''


                       committee on intelligence

  The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet 
during the session of the 115th Congress of the U.S. Senate on 
Thursday, May 11, 2017 from 10 a.m., in room SH-216 of the Senate Hart 
Office Building to hold an open hearing entitled ``Worldwide Threats.''


                       committee on intelligence

  The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet 
during the session of the 115th Congress of the U.S. Senate on 
Thursday, May 11, 2017 from 1:30 p.m., in room SH-219 of the Senate 
Hart Office Building to hold a closed hearing.

                          ____________________



