

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 102 (Thursday, June 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 102 (Thursday, June 15, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3552]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       TRIBUTE TO JENNIFER SANTOS

  Mr. COCHRAN. Mr. President, I wish to commend Jennifer Santos for her 
service on the Senate Committee on Appropriations.
  She has served for 5 years as a very capable budget analyst for the 
Subcommittee on Defense. Her accomplishments have been very impressive 
and a credit to the Senate.
  After graduating from Wheeling Jesuit University with a degree in 
mathematics, Jennifer joined a defense contractor in support of the Air 
Force's F-22 program. She played an important role in that program and 
can be proud of her contribution to fielding the most capable fighter 
aircraft ever developed.
  Her talent was soon recognized by the Air Force where she served in a 
series of important positions, including those involving special 
programs that are key to protecting our national security. Jennifer 
established a reputation for competence in working with leaders from 
Department of Defense, Congress, and other agencies to ensure the 
responsible allocation of taxpayer dollars.
  Jennifer's detailed knowledge of military budgeting and acquisition 
systems allowed her to make insightful recommendations to the 
subcommittee, which have resulted in the better investment of tens of 
billions of taxpayer dollars over her Senate tenure. In particular, her 
efforts have supported increased Army helicopter procurement, important 
research and development projects funding, and legislation to improve 
the management of the Department of Defense.
  Jennifer Santos has upheld the highest standards of a budget analyst, 
congressional staffer, and defense professional. Although she is soon 
leaving the committee, I wish her all the best on her next steps in her 
distinguished career and thank her for her work in the U.S. Senate.

                          ____________________



