

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 127 (Thursday, July 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 127 (Thursday, July 27, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4419-S4420]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                         TRIBUTE TO KEITH GEIS

 Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, Wyoming has a longstanding 
tradition of recognizing individuals who make invaluable contributions 
to agriculture and communities across our State. Each year, Senator 
Enzi and I have the pleasure of introducing these honorees as they are 
inducted into the Wyoming Agriculture Hall of Fame. This year, Keith 
Geis will be honored as one of

[[Page S4420]]

these outstanding individuals during the 105th Wyoming State Fair.
  In Wyoming, we talk a lot about the code of the West. ``Take pride in 
your work,'' ``Always finish what you start,'' and ``Ride for the 
Brand'' are just a few tenets of the creed that motivates the way we 
live in Wyoming. Growing up on a dairy farm in Wheatland, Keith learned 
these principles early and abides by them today.
  Across the state, Keith is well known for his steadfast commitment to 
strong Wyoming communities. After starting his career in banking and 
spending nearly two decades with the Farm Credit Services of America, 
Keith has served as the president of Platte Valley Bank in Wheatland 
for 15 years. In addition to his work at the bank, Keith is 
exceptionally active in his community. The list of organizations, 
boards, and associations that have benefited from Keith's leadership 
and involvement is long. He has served, among others, as a member of 
the Platte County Economic Development Board of Directors, as chairman 
of the Wyoming Agriculture in the Classroom, and as a member of the 
Wyoming Stock Growers Land Trust Board of Directors. Most notable, 
however, is Keith's focus on the youngest members of our Wyoming 
communities.
  Keith and his wife, Marie, have two children, several grandchildren, 
and have served as foster parents. Keith knows that a community's 
strength is in its future, and he has worked hard to ensure that the 
next generation will be as dedicated to our State as he is. As 
president of the Platte Valley Bank in Wheatland, WY, Keith works with 
agriculture producers every day, including young people whose 4H or FFA 
project may become a lifelong passion. His work to ensure the next 
generation of farmers and ranchers will have the capital and an 
understanding financial officer is renowned across the State.
  Selection as a member of the Wyoming Agriculture Hall of Fame is 
about more than a good calf crop or strong growing season. The people 
who grow crops, raise livestock, and provide the capital to make 
ranching possible are the people who give of their time to school 
boards, economic development groups, and even nursing home boards. 
Keith is one of the people who makes our Wyoming home so special.
  It is with great honor that I recognize this outstanding member of 
our Wyoming community. Keith makes outstanding contributions to 
families across the State and sets an exceptional example for current 
and future generations of farmers and ranchers. My wife, Bobbi, joins 
me in congratulating Keith Geis as one of the 2017 inductees into the 
Wyoming Agriculture Hall of Fame.

                          ____________________



