

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 96 (Tuesday, June 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 96 (Tuesday, June 6, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3286-S3287]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      REMEMBERING JERRY PERENCHIO

 Mr. McCAIN. Madam President, it is with deep sadness that I 
come to the floor to pay tribute to my friend and great supporter, 
Jerry Perenchio. Along with my wife, Cindy, I offer my sincerest 
condolences to Margie and Jerry's three children, five grandchildren, 
and three great-grandchildren as they mourn the loss of a man whose 
brilliant talent and business success were only surpassed by his 
humility and generosity.
  Jerry's incredible life and career epitomize the American dream. The 
grandson of Italian immigrants, Jerry spent time at military school 
before graduating from UCLA and joining the U.S. Air Force as a fighter 
pilot. Jerry pursued his goal of working in show business by taking a 
job in the mailroom at a talent agency. Before long, he was promoted to 
talent agent and later launched his own agency, representing Hollywood 
stars including Marlon Brando, Andy Williams, and Ronald Reagan. He 
would go on to partner with Norman Lear and Bud Yorkin and produce some 
of the most iconic television shows in history, including ``All in the 
Family,'' ``Good Times'' and ``The Jeffersons,'' and financed 
celebrated films such as ``Driving Miss Daisy,'' which won the Oscar 
for best picture in 1989.
  Jerry also played a major role in promoting some of history's most 
iconic sports matchups. In 1971, Jerry agreed to promote the 
heavyweight world championship ``fight of the century'' between 
Muhammed Ali and Joe Frazier at New York's Madison Square Garden. Jerry 
sold the broadcast rights to the fight, which was shown on closed-
circuit TV. He guaranteed a $5 million purse for the matchup, built a 
crowd of celebrities including Frank Sinatra and Burt Lancaster, and 
generated $2 million in profits. He would go on to promote the 
legendary ``Battle of the Sexes'' tennis match between Billie Jean King 
and Bobby Riggs at the Houston Astrodome that attracted a crowd of 
nearly 30,000 people, as well as an additional 30 million viewers who 
watched the match on TV.
  Jerry is perhaps best known for building Univision into the media 
powerhouse it is today. He bought the then-struggling network in 1992 
and, in just 4 years, led Univision to an initial public offering. 
Under his leadership, Univision cultivated a loyal audience among 
Hispanic Americans who had been previously underrepresented in the 
mainstream media. Colleagues of Jerry at Univision have spoken of his 
deep respect and compassion for the Hispanic community in the United 
States and his visionary foresight into the important role they play in 
culture and politics.
  While Jerry had much personal success to celebrate, he carried 
himself with humility, generosity, and integrity. Despite working in 
show business, Jerry preferred a more reclusive life and encouraged his 
subordinates to work hard and avoid the press. ``Stay out of the 
spotlight,'' Jerry would say. ``It fades your suit.'' He gave to 
countless causes and charities, many anonymously, including the Ronald 
Reagan UCLA Medical Center and Walt Disney Concert Hall.

[[Page S3287]]

  I was privileged to work closely with Jerry in 2008 when he served as 
national finance cochair of my Presidential campaign. I will always 
appreciate Jerry and Margie's generosity and support during that effort 
and value the strong friendship we forged in the years since.
  Jerry Perenchio will be missed by his family and friends, but his 
remarkable impact on the entertainment industry and his immense 
patriotism and generosity will be long remembered by his country. I am 
honored to have known him and to call him my friend.
  Thank you.

                          ____________________



