

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 90 (Wednesday, May 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 90 (Wednesday, May 24, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4517]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    CONGRATULATING ANNIE RICHARDSON

  (Mr. WILSON of South Carolina asked and was given permission to 
address the House for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I am grateful to express 
appreciation for Annie Richardson, press assistant of South Carolina's 
Second Congressional District.
  A native of Alexandria, Virginia, Annie has called South Carolina's 
Second Congressional District home since 2004. A distinguished graduate 
of Hammond School and Presbyterian College, Annie has faithfully served 
on the staff of the Second Congressional District. Her expertise in 
photography, graphic design, and videography has made a positive 
difference, and her sunny disposition is always recognized by 
constituents visiting the office.
  It is with mixed blessings, but great happiness, that I bid Annie 
farewell. She is moving on next week to serve as the digital assistant 
for the House Republican Conference; fortunately, to be working with 
conference chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers. I know she will do a 
remarkable job supporting the conference.
  I know her father, Phil, and brother, Emmett, join me in recognizing 
her achievements. She has served with distinction in the tradition of 
her late beloved mother, Holly Richardson, who will always be cherished 
as a devoted staff member of Senate President pro tempore Strom 
Thurmond.
  In conclusion, God bless our troops, and we will never forget 
September the 11th in the global war on terrorism.
  We are grateful for the visit today in Washington of Medal of Honor 
recipient James Livingston, a Marine general from Mount Pleasant, South 
Carolina.

                          ____________________



