

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 125 (Tuesday, July 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 125 (Tuesday, July 25, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S4187]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       MONROE COUNTY BICENTENNIAL

 Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, today I wish to pay special 
tribute to Monroe County, MI, which is celebrating its bicentennial 
this year.
  Located on the shores of Lake Erie, Monroe County was founded on July 
14, 1817. It is named in honor of President James Monroe, who visited 
the Michigan Territory in August 1817, shortly after the county's 
founding. The county has the proud distinction of being the second 
county founded in Michigan.
  The people of Monroe are proud of their history. This history has 
inspired generations of hard-working and fiercely independent people 
who are committed to preserving their history, protecting their natural 
resources, and innovating for their future.
  Monroe County is home to the River Raisin National Battlefield Park, 
which commemorates the January 1813 battles of the War of 1812. The 
battles marked one of the greatest defeats for the United States during 
the war, and the rally cry, ``Remember the Raisin'' inspired support 
for the rest of the war. I was honored to help lead the effort in 
Congress with Congressman Dingell and Senator Levin to pass the 
legislation that made the park part of the National Park System. The 
park has now become an economic driver, attracting economic development 
to the surrounding area.
  Monroe County is also home to La-Z-Boy Furniture, the inventers of 
the world's first reclining chair. The company was founded in 1927 and 
employs more than 6,300 people nationwide. The corporate headquarters 
is still based in Monroe.
  One of the most famous Monroe County residents is General George 
Armstrong Custer, who spent much of his life in Monroe. One of the 
youngest Americans to ever be promoted to brigadier general, Custer is 
known for his successes during the Civil War and his death at the 
Battle of the Little Bighorn, also known as Custer's Last Stand.
  As a leader of the Senate Agriculture Committee, I am especially 
proud of Monroe County's agricultural heritage. The county has over 270 
historic farms--the most of any county in Michigan.
  Numerous events and celebrations have been planned in the county 
throughout the year to mark this special milestone. Congratulations to 
Monroe County on 200 years of impressive history, growth, and 
success.

                          ____________________



