

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 118 (Thursday, July 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 118 (Thursday, July 13, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3965-S3966]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      WELCOMING THE GUEST CHAPLAIN

  Mr. THUNE. Madam President, I wish to express my appreciation for the 
opportunity to welcome to the U.S. Senate Pastor Bill Ewing.
  Pastor Bill Ewing started a ministry called Christian Life Ministries 
in the early 1980s in Rapid City, SD, along with his wife Nancy. It is 
a ministry that has impacted thousands of people across this country, 
my wife Kimberly and I being among those, and our family. We have 
benefited enormously from Pastor Ewing's spiritual mentorship, his 
always wise and godly council, and his example of faithfulness.
  In addition to those in my State of South Dakota and across the 
country, the ministry has been involved through the years in 
ministering to people who have been through very difficult 
circumstances. They were there after 9/11 in New York and after 
Hurricane Katrina. There have been countless examples of things that 
happened not only here at home but also around the world--all the 
things that have gone on in the country of Haiti--Christian Life 
Ministries has been on the scene and has been very ably ministering to 
people who have been impacted by these horrific events.
  Bill Ewing is a lifelong South Dakotan, although he did venture over 
to Wyoming to go to college, where he was a two-time All American 
baseball player and actually was in the California Angels farm system 
for a number of years before an injury ended his career, but that loss 
to the California Angels and Major League Baseball was an enormous win 
for people all over South Dakota and all across this country who have 
benefited from the work he and his team in Christian Life Ministries 
have done.
  So it is my honor to be able to welcome Pastor Bill Ewing to the U.S. 
Senate. I thank Chaplain Black for his hospitality and generosity for 
allowing my friend and pastor, Bill Ewing, to be the visiting Chaplain 
here in the U.S. Senate.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the 
order for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. Without objection, it is so 
ordered.

[[Page S3966]]

  

                          ____________________



