

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 98 (Thursday, June 8, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 98 (Thursday, June 8, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3372]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I have 8 requests for committees to 
meet during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of 
the Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


            committee on banking, housing, and urban affairs

  The Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, June 8, 2017 at 10 
a.m. to conduct a hearing entitled, ``Fostering Economic Growth: The 
Role of Financial Institutions in Local Communities''.


           committee on commerce, science, and transportation

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to hold a meeting during the session of the Senate on Thursday, June 8, 
2017, at 10 a.m. in room 253 of the Russell Senate Office Building.


               committee on energy and natural resources

  The Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate in order to hold a hearing on 
Thursday, June 8, 2017 at 10 a.m. in Room 366 of the Dirksen Senate 
Office Building in Washington, DC.


                          committee on finance

  The Committee on Finance is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Thursday, June 8, 2017, at 9:45 a.m., in 215 Dirksen 
Senate Office Building, to conduct a hearing entitled ``The President's 
Fiscal Year 2018 Budget.''


                     committee on foreign relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, June 8, 2017 at 10 a.m., to hold a 
hearing entitled ``Beyond Iraq and Syria: ISIS' Global Reach.''


                       committee on the judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate, on June 8, 2017, at 9:30 a.m., in SD-226 of the 
Dirksen Senate Office Building, to conduct an executive business 
meeting.


                       committee on intelligence

  The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet 
during the session of the 115th Congress of the U.S. Senate on 
Thursday, June 8, 2017 from 10 a.m., in room SH-216 of the Senate Hart 
Office Building to hold an open hearing entitled ``Open Hearing with 
Former CIA Director James Comey.''


                       committee on intelligence

  The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet 
during the session of the 115th Congress of the U.S. Senate on 
Thursday, June 8, 2017 from 1 p.m., in room SH-219 of the Senate Hart 
Office Building to hold a closed hearing.

                          ____________________



