

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 99 (Monday, June 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 99 (Monday, June 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H4837-H4838]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        TEXAS WOMEN VETERANS DAY

  (Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute.)
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise with great jubilation and 
excitement to recognize and congratulate the Catholic Charities as they 
celebrate this day, June 12, being an historic day in Texas because it 
has been named as Texas Women Veterans Day.
  The Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of Galveston-Houston wants 
to ensure that the Texas legislators who supported this are, in fact, 
congratulated. And we are grateful that it was signed into law.
  Texas has the highest number of women veterans of any State in the 
country--last year, 183,597--and these heroes and sheroes could soon 
have a special day when the State will annually recognize their 
sacrifices.
  June 12 now has historic significance. On June 12, 1948, the Women's 
Armed Services Integration Act was passed nationally, allowing women to 
serve as regular members of the military.
  ``We are delighted that this special population that has bravely 
served our Nation will be honored in this important way,'' says Cynthia 
N. Colbert,

[[Page H4838]]

Catholic Charities president and CEO. ``We serve women veterans through 
several programs, and we love having the opportunity to recognize those 
who have served and sacrificed for all of us.''
  So this is a great day. Thank you Texas and the legislators who 
sponsored it. I look forward to working with legislation to ensure we 
have a national day here in the United States.
  But to the staff of Catholic Charities, those who travel to Austin 
and all of those who recognize that we must honor these veterans as the 
heroes and sheroes of the Nation, congratulations. You have a day, June 
12. Now, forever, we will honor you on this day.
  God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.

                          ____________________



