

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 91 (Thursday, May 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 91 (Thursday, May 25, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3206]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     HONORING TROOPER THOMAS CLARDY

  Ms. WARREN. Mr. President, I would like to take the opportunity to 
honor the memory of Trooper Thomas Clardy, who was killed in the line 
of duty on March 16, 2016.
  Last week, the country observed National Police Week, a week in honor 
of the brave law enforcement officers who lost their lives in the line 
of duty, and on Monday, we will observe Memorial Day, a day we honor 
the heroic men and women who paid the ultimate sacrifice in service to 
their country. Thomas Clardy, an officer and a veteran, is one of those 
brave people to whom our Nation owes a debt of gratitude.
  Born and raised in Park City, UT, Trooper Clardy spent his adult life 
in service to his country, his community, and his family. After 
graduating from high school, Trooper Clardy spent 2 years in the U.S. 
Army before transferring to the U.S. Marine Corps, where he served 11 
years.
  Following his honorable discharge from the Marines, Trooper Clardy 
began a long and esteemed career in service to his community. He 
graduated from the Massachusetts State Trooper Academy in 2005 and was 
a valued member of the Massachusetts State Police until his untimely 
death.
  Trooper Clardy was a dedicated and loving husband to his wife, Reisa, 
and father to his seven children. Thanksgiving was a sacred holiday for 
Trooper Clardy. He spent it, without fail, surrounded by friends and 
loved ones, enjoying football with the kids and spending quality time 
with the family he loved so much.
  Today we honor his service and sacrifice. May his memory continue to 
challenge and inspire us.

                          ____________________



