

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 95 (Monday, June 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 95 (Monday, June 5, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3241]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




        OREGON JEWISH MUSEUM AND CENTER FOR HOLOCAUST EDUCATION

  Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I want to acknowledge an exciting moment in 
Oregon's history: the grand opening of the new Oregon Jewish Museum and 
Center for Holocaust Education in Portland. The 15,000-square-foot 
museum now has a permanent place in our State where anyone can come to 
learn and experience Jewish culture and history.
  Jews have lived in Oregon for more than 165 years. Many immigrated 
here to escape the horrors of the Holocaust; others came with the hope 
of finding a new life in a new land. I am the son of immigrants who 
fled Nazi Germany, so this history is especially personal. As a proud 
American Jew, I know that for each dark chapter in our history, there 
is a story of perseverance, of hope, of triumph. The rich traditions 
and culture within the Jewish community must be preserved and taught 
for generations to come. That is why I am so proud of the work done by 
the community in Oregon and by the Portland museum staff and board to 
bring this museum to an even grander scale.
  The museum has come a long way from its initial beginnings when it 
was known as the museum without walls. From the first exhibition, 
``Jews of Greece,'' at the Multnomah County Central Library in 1990, 
interest grew-and so has the museum's footprint. Now, with this new 
state-of-the-art facility, the museum will continue to educate and open 
the minds of many about the experiences of Oregon's vibrant Jewish 
community. In fact, it continues to be the only community repository 
for displaying that experience in my home State.
  It is my distinct honor to recognize the Oregon Jewish Museum and 
Center for Holocaust Education. It brings incredible exhibitions to our 
State, provides a full-time Holocaust educator to help those who want 
to learn more about this tragic piece of history, and remains the 
steward of the Oregon Holocaust Memorial in Portland's Washington Park. 
I am greatly appreciative for all this museum does and will do for 
Oregon.

                          ____________________



