

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 125 (Tuesday, July 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 125 (Tuesday, July 25, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4186-S4187]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        TRIBUTE TO JAKOB HELLER

 Mr. HELLER. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize my 
nephew, Jakob Heller, on his upcoming achievement of becoming an Eagle 
Scout, one of the highest honors in the Boy Scouts. On August 2, 2017, 
Jakob officially becomes an Eagle Scout, which serves as a symbol of 
his dedication to the Scouts' mission of creating responsible, 
participating citizens and leaders.
  In order to become an Eagle Scout, Jakob completed tests and earned 
merit badges that required mastering specific outdoor skills and 
providing services to his community. He also demonstrated a commitment 
to his team and the Boy Scout mission and oath.
  Jakob comes from a military family, and like many military families, 
they are constantly on the move. Jakob's father served in the U.S. 
Navy, and after retirement, he moved his family to southern West 
Virginia where they have been living for the last 5 years. I am happy 
to note that, following his Eagle Scout ceremony, Jakob and his family 
will be moving to Carson City, NV, where his grandparents and extended 
family anxiously await his arrival.
  Jakob is a talented young man who excels academically and 
participates in a number of extracurricular activities. In addition to 
his academic accomplishments, he is a gifted musician who

[[Page S4187]]

plays the trumpet in the marching band and the French horn in the 
school's concert band. He is also a member of the cross-country team 
and participates in track and field, where he shines in sprint relays, 
hurdle events, and the long jump. His ability to balance school, 
athletics, and Boy Scouts is truly remarkable.
  Furthermore, Jakob is preparing for a future in computer programming. 
Like many kids his age, he loves playing video games and is interested 
in becoming a video game programmer. Additionally, he is part of his 
school's robotics club and programs robots to compete in challenging 
competitions. With such extensive experience at a young age, I am 
confident Jakob will have a bright future as a computer programmer.
  Jakob is responsible and dependable and understands the importance of 
his family, friends, and community. Boy Scouts has had a positive 
impact on his life, and I know that he will serve as an excellent role 
model for other members of his family and friends.
  In closing, I ask my colleagues and all Nevadans to join me in 
congratulating this new Nevada resident, my nephew Jakob Heller. I 
cannot be more proud of this young man, and I look forward to 
witnessing his many contributions to our community in the years 
ahead.

                          ____________________



