

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 98 (Thursday, June 8, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 98 (Thursday, June 8, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4804]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              REMEMBERING THE LIFE OF PAUL W. PAINTER, JR.

  (Mr. CARTER of Georgia asked and was given permission to address the 
House for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I rise today to remember the 
life of the respected Savannah lawyer and gentleman, Paul W. Painter, 
Jr., who passed away on Saturday, May 27, 2017, at the age of 71.
  Mr. Painter comes from a family that has worked tirelessly to serve 
our country both in the Armed Forces as well as our judiciary system. 
His father, Paul Painter, Sr., served during World War II, and then 
created a successful law practice.
  Paul Painter, Jr., followed in his father's footsteps, graduating 
from Georgia Tech, and then serving in the Navy for 4 years. After 
that, Mr. Painter attended law school at the University of Georgia, 
beginning a career that would benefit and serve many Savannahians for 
years to come.
  Mr. Painter started his own firm in Savannah, now known as the Ellis, 
Painter, Ratterree, & Adams Law Firm, with which he practiced for 
nearly 30 years. By the end of his law career, he was known as one of 
the best lawyers in the entire State of Georgia and was named to the 
list of Georgia's Top 10 lawyers in 2014.
  The Paul W. Painter, Jr., Civility and Professional Award was also 
created in his honor to remember his fantastic work and to reward other 
outstanding lawyers in Georgia.
  Mr. Painter was an honorable person who did everything possible to 
improve our judicial system, and he gained respect from lawyers all 
over. He will certainly be missed as an asset to our community and the 
entire legal field.

                          ____________________



