

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 131 (Wednesday, August 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 131 (Wednesday, August 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4759-S4760]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              130TH ANNIVERSARY OF BAR HARBOR BANK & TRUST

  Mr. KING. Mr. President, today I wish to commemorate the 130th 
anniversary of Bar Harbor Bank & Trust. Based in Bar Harbor, ME, Bar 
Harbor Bank & Trust now has 14 branches in Maine and 35 branches in New 
Hampshire and Vermont. Known for supporting and understanding the 
unique people, organizations, and culture of northern New England, Bar 
Harbor Bank & Trust has not only achieved a strong reputation for 
providing quality service, but it has also cultivated employees who are 
dedicated to bettering their communities.
  Since its founding in 1887, Bar Harbor Bank & Trust has fostered the 
personal and professional growth of its employees while serving its 
customers with the highest level of care and concern. Over the years, 
Bar Harbor Bank & Trust has expanded to New Hampshire-based 
subsidiaries: McCrillis & Elredge Insurance, Inc., and Charter Trust 
Company. It recently acquired Lake Sunapee Bank to make it one of the 
largest community banks in New England. It been recognized as a leading 
bank nationwide and ranked among the best places to work in ME.
  Bar Harbor Bank & Trust has demonstrated a commitment to supporting 
the communities it serves. Each year, its employees volunteer thousands 
of hours to local community organizations. This commitment is sustained 
by their volunteer pay program that allows employees to get paid time 
off for volunteering each month to local causes they are passionate 
about. Furthermore, it allows them to contribute money from their 
paychecks to the Bank's Community Commitment program each month, and 
with every donation matched by the bank, the program donates over 
thousands of dollars annually to local nonprofit organizations, 
including Maine Veteran's Project, Girls and Boys State, Knox County 
Homeless Coalition, and dozens more.
  In addition to volunteerism, Bar Harbor bank & Trust employees 
actively

[[Page S4760]]

participate in many community fundraisers, such as the Annual Hancock 
Relay for Life for the American Cancer Society. The bank also hosts an 
annual charity golf tournament that raises money for a local 
organization. This year, the tournament raised money that was donated 
to the Acadia Family Center to sponsor a year's worth of treatment for 
two individuals battling substance abuse. Additionally, Bar Harbor Bank 
& Trust employees teach local children lessons about saving money 
through the ABA's Teach Children to Save Day and explain how to use 
credit wisely to teenagers in the community. In 2016 alone, this bank 
provided over 450 children with lessons in savings education.
  I wish to join the communities all around Maine, New Hampshire, and 
Vermont in congratulating Bar Harbor Bank & Trust for this remarkable 
achievement on its 130th anniversary. I look forward to following its 
continued growth and service, and I applaud the bank for its dedication 
to its employees, customers, and local communities.

                          ____________________



