

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 60 (Thursday, April 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 60 (Thursday, April 6, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2770]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1100
                COMMENDING DEPUTY FIRE CHIEF JOHN SCHOTT

  (Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois asked and was given permission to 
address the House for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize 
the heroic efforts of Deputy Fire Chief John Schott, from the 
Carlinville, Illinois, Fire Department. Deputy Schott has gone above 
and beyond the call of duty in his efforts to assist the neighboring 
Morrisonville, Illinois, Fire Department.
  On October 22, Deputy Schott was one of the first witnesses to a two-
vehicle crash and applied first aid to one of the drivers involved in 
the accident. While on the scene, Schott could not help but notice that 
the emergency services from the Morrisonville-Palmer Fire Protection 
District lacked the proper hydraulic extraction tools, more commonly 
known as the Jaws of Life.
  Deputy Schott's efforts did not end that day. After the crash, he 
began his mission to equip the Morrisonville firefighters with the 
suitable tools they would need for any future emergencies. By making 
several phone calls, Schott was able to locate a set of the Jaws of 
Life and communicate the Morrisonville firefighters' need to a generous 
contact who gladly donated the tool.
  Firefighters from Morrisonville are currently training with the 
equipment as a need for their use, thankfully, has not yet presented 
itself since the donation.
  Deputy Chief Schott's dedication to the betterment of a department 
other than his own is commendable.
  Thank you, Deputy Schott, for your service, and may God bless our 
first responders.

                          ____________________



