

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 109 (Monday, June 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 109 (Monday, June 26, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3764]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     REMEMBERING DAVID COLEMAN, JR.

 Mr. YOUNG. Mr. President, the great State of Indiana is proud 
of and ever thankful to those who defended our Nation's freedom, 
especially through military service. Today I wish to recognize the 
service and life of a member of the Greatest Generation, David Coleman, 
Jr., a veteran of World War II.
  Mr. Coleman, born June 12, 1924, served in both the U.S. Army and the 
U.S. Air Force from 1943 to 1946 and then again from 1953 to 1960. 
During his military career, he earned the National Defense Service 
Medal, the Good Conduct Medal, the World War II Victory Medal, and the 
EAME Theater Ribbon. As a veteran myself, I am proud to know of fellow 
Hoosier veterans such as Mr. Coleman. Mr. Coleman called Indiana home 
for 60 years, 56 of them with his beloved wife, the late Dorothy 
Coleman, by his side. Like many Hoosiers, Mr. Coleman enjoyed America's 
favorite pastime, baseball, and was an avid fan of the Indianapolis 
Indians. Mr. Coleman also had a strong Hoosier work ethic, working at 
both Bryant Heating & Cooling and Goodyear Tire Company until 
retirement.
  Mr. Coleman loved his family, his God, and his country, and for these 
things, he will be remembered. Mr. Coleman passed away on June 18, 
2017, just a few days after his 93rd birthday. My thoughts and prayers 
go out to the family he left behind, including his children, 
grandchildren, and great-grandchildren. They should know that Mr. 
Coleman was an exemplary patriot, and I am proud to call him a fellow 
Hoosier.

                          ____________________



