

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 127 (Thursday, July 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 127 (Thursday, July 27, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4431-S4433]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 167

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the name of the Senator from Connecticut 
(Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 167, a bill to 
designate a National Memorial to Fallen Educators at the National 
Teachers Hall of Fame in Emporia, Kansas.


                                 S. 223

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Ms. Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of S. 223, a bill to provide 
immunity from suit for certain individuals who disclose potential 
examples of financial exploitation of senior citizens, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 540

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott) was added as a cosponsor of S. 540, a bill to 
limit the authority of States to tax certain income of employees for 
employment duties performed in other States.


                                 S. 711

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 711, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for S corporation reform, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 888

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 888, a bill to amend the 
Higher Education Opportunity Act to add disclosure requirements to the 
institution financial aid offer form and to amend the Higher Education 
Act of 1965 to make such form mandatory.


                                S. 1028

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1028, a bill to provide 
for the establishment and maintenance of a National Family Caregiving 
Strategy, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1146

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from 
Washington (Mrs. Murray) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1146, a bill to 
enhance the ability of the Office of the National Ombudsman to assist 
small businesses in meeting regulatory requirements and develop 
outreach initiatives to promote awareness of the services the Office of 
the National Ombudsman provides, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1182

  At the request of Mr. Young, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1182, a bill to 
require the Secretary of the Treasury to mint commemorative coins in 
recognition of the 100th anniversary of The American Legion.


                                S. 1196

  At the request of Mr. Sullivan, the names of the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Mr. Johnson) and the Senator from Kentucky (Mr. Paul) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1196, a bill to expand the capacity and 
capability of the ballistic missile defense system of the United 
States, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1311

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1311, a bill to provide 
assistance in abolishing human trafficking in the United States.


                                S. 1354

  At the request of Mr. Carper, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Ms. Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1354, a bill to establish 
an Individual Market Reinsurance fund to provide funding for State 
individual market stabilization reinsurance programs.


                                S. 1462

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Ms. Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1462, a bill to amend the 
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act to improve cost sharing 
subsidies.


                                S. 1505

  At the request of Mr. Lee, the names of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Risch) and the Senator from Wisconsin (Mr. Johnson) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1505, a bill to provide that silencers be treated the 
same as firearms accessories.


                                S. 1532

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Connecticut 
(Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1532, a bill to 
disqualify from operating a commercial motor vehicle for life an 
individual who uses a commercial motor vehicle in committing a felony 
involving human trafficking.


                                S. 1536

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1536, a 
bill to designate a human trafficking prevention coordinator and to 
expand the scope of activities authorized under the Federal Motor 
Carrier Safety Administration's outreach and education program to 
include human trafficking prevention activities, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1591

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1591, a bill to 
impose sanctions with respect to the Democratic People's Republic of 
Korea, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1598

  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the names of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) and the Senator from South Dakota (Mr. Thune) 
were added

[[Page S4432]]

as cosponsors of S. 1598, a bill to amend title 38, United States Code, 
to make certain improvements in the laws administered by the Secretary 
of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.
  At the request of Mr. Tester, the names of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) and the Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 1598, supra.


                                S. 1601

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1601, a bill to 
amend the Fair Housing Act to establish that certain conduct, in or 
around a dwelling, shall be considered to be severe or pervasive for 
purposes of determining whether a certain type of sexual harassment has 
occurred under that Act, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1608

  At the request of Mr. Flake, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Inhofe) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1608, a bill to authorize 
the Capitol Police Board to make payments from the United States 
Capitol Police Memorial Fund to employees of the United States Capitol 
Police who have sustained serious line-of-duty injuries, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1619

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1619, a bill to 
amend the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act to extend the interest rate 
limitation on debt entered into during military service to debt 
incurred during military service to consolidate or refinance student 
loans incurred before military service.


                                S. 1640

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1640, a bill to reform the 
financing of Senate elections, and for other purposes.


                              S.J. RES. 47

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the names of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Roberts), the Senator from Alaska (Mr. Sullivan), the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Mr. Johnson), and the Senator from Idaho (Mr. Risch) were 
added as cosponsors of S.J. Res. 47, a joint resolution providing for 
congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States 
Code, of the rule submitted by Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection 
relating to ``Arbitration Agreements''.


                              S. RES. 162

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Burr) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 162, a 
resolution reaffirming the commitment of the United States to promoting 
religious freedom, and for other purposes.


                              S. RES. 233

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the names of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Cotton), the Senator from Georgia (Mr. Isakson), the Senator from 
Alaska (Mr. Sullivan), the Senator from West Virginia (Mr. Manchin), 
the Senator from Tennessee (Mr. Corker), and the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue) were added as cosponsors of S. Res. 233, a resolution 
designating August 16, 2017, as ``National Airborne Day''.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 274

  At the request of Mr. Sasse, his name was added as a cosponsor of 
amendment No. 274 intended to be proposed to H.R. 1628, a bill to 
provide for reconciliation pursuant to title II of the concurrent 
resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2017.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 275

  At the request of Mr. Sasse, his name was added as a cosponsor of 
amendment No. 275 intended to be proposed to H.R. 1628, a bill to 
provide for reconciliation pursuant to title II of the concurrent 
resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2017.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 276

  At the request of Mr. Kaine, the name of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. 
Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 276 intended to be 
proposed to H.R. 1628, a bill to provide for reconciliation pursuant to 
title II of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 
2017.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 290

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 290 
intended to be proposed to H.R. 1628, a bill to provide for 
reconciliation pursuant to title II of the concurrent resolution on the 
budget for fiscal year 2017.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 329

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 
329 intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the Department of 
Defense, for military construction, and for defense activities of the 
Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for 
such fiscal year, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 333

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the names of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) and the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Brown) were added as 
cosponsors of amendment No. 333 intended to be proposed to H.R. 1628, a 
bill to provide for reconciliation pursuant to title II of the 
concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2017.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 341

  At the request of Mr. Udall, the name of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Heinrich) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 341 intended 
to be proposed to H.R. 1628, a bill to provide for reconciliation 
pursuant to title II of the concurrent resolution on the budget for 
fiscal year 2017.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 366

  At the request of Mr. Kaine, the names of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) and the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) were 
added as cosponsors of amendment No. 366 intended to be proposed to 
H.R. 1628, a bill to provide for reconciliation pursuant to title II of 
the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2017.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 378

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the names of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Leahy), the Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen), the Senator 
from Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen), and the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. 
Warren) were added as cosponsors of amendment No. 378 intended to be 
proposed to H.R. 1628, a bill to provide for reconciliation pursuant to 
title II of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 
2017.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 383

  At the request of Mr. Franken, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren), the Senator from Illinois (Ms. Duckworth), 
and the Senator from North Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) were added as cosponsors 
of amendment No. 383 intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize 
appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the 
Department of Defense, for military construction, and for defense 
activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel 
strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 391

  At the request of Mr. Graham, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Mr. Heller) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 391 intended to 
be proposed to H.R. 1628, a bill to provide for reconciliation pursuant 
to title II of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 
2017.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 523

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 
523 intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the Department of 
Defense, for military construction, and for defense activities of the 
Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for 
such fiscal year, and for other purposes.

[[Page S4433]]

  

                          ____________________



