

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 61 (Friday, April 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 61 (Friday, April 7, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2446]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]


                         TRIBUTE TO ROBERT HOO

 Mr. HELLER. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize Robert 
Hoo, the founder of Nevadans for the Common Good, an organization 
dedicated to community and making the great State of Nevada a better 
place through public service. Robert was born and raised in China and 
moved to New York with his family after the Communist revolution. For 
the last 5 years, Robert has lived in Las Vegas and committed himself 
to the goals of his impressive organization.
  Nevadans for the Common Good trains everyday citizens for public 
service, such as running for political office or becoming active on an 
issue. The organization is run by 40 generous institutions and is a 
collection of religious congregations, civic associations, professional 
organizations, schools, fraternities, sororities, and other community-
based groups.
  Robert understands the importance of a good and honest government 
that truly works for the people. Having experienced the impact of 
communism on his family in China, he only further appreciated American 
ideals, and these values fuel the work he does to this day.
  Robert Hoo has taken public and community service very seriously. 
Before he moved to Nevada, Robert worked for a nonprofit organization 
in Connecticut and also for an organization that targeted neighborhood 
blight in East Brooklyn. The people of Nevada are very fortunate that 
Robert's journey took him to our State.
  Lastly, Robert's dedication to finding common ground is truly 
admirable. In today's political environment, too often we focus on what 
divides us. Robert, on the other hand, chooses to focus on what unites 
us at the grassroots level and is committed to helping people solve 
real problems for others and themselves. The world needs more public 
servants that have Robert's dedication to helping others and making a 
difference.
  I am both humbled and honored to acknowledge Robert Hoo for his 
outstanding work. His organization is making a difference for so many 
people who want to better our great State through public service. As 
the senior Senator from the great State of Nevada, I am proud to call 
Robert a Nevadan and applaud the work he has done and will continue to 
do for years to come.

                          ____________________



