

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 90 (Wednesday, May 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 90 (Wednesday, May 24, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4519]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                SALUTING FALLEN VETERANS ON MEMORIAL DAY

  (Ms. PLASKETT asked and was given permission to address the House for 
1 minute and to revise and extend her remarks.)
  Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, on behalf of my family and staff, I want 
to salute and commemorate the fallen veterans of the United States 
Virgin Islands and throughout the United States as we prepare to 
celebrate or participate in this Memorial Day observance.
  Memorial Day is the day our Nation gathers to honor the many men and 
women who have selflessly defended this country and have paid the 
ultimate sacrifice in defense of the public and our democratic 
principles.
  The Virgin Islands proudly served and sacrificed its sons and 
daughters to American freedom, even before it was a part of this 
Nation. Our service history is rich and will continue. After becoming a 
part of this country 100 years ago this year, we lobbied, petitioned, 
for the responsibility to be a part of the draft. We shirk not from our 
duty.
  The Virgin Islands, along with the other territories, send more men 
and women per capita to serve in the U.S. military than anywhere in the 
United States, and have more fallen veterans per capita than anywhere 
else.
  I take this opportunity to thank and extend condolences to these men 
and women, their families, for their bravery, strength, sacrifice, and 
courage. We as citizens, and as a community, are forever indebted to 
our servicemen and -women. Our resolve is that their sacrifice is not 
in vain as we continue to fight for liberty and justice for all, both 
home and abroad.
  Mr. Speaker, just as we vow to leave no soldier behind on the 
battlefield, we here in Congress will not forget any veterans when they 
return home.

                          ____________________



