

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 126 (Wednesday, July 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 126 (Wednesday, July 26, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H6335-H6428]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




             DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2018


                             General Leave

  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all 
Members may have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend 
their remarks and include extraneous material in the consideration of 
H.R. 3219, and that I may include tabular material on the same.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms. Ros-Lehtinen). Is there objection to the 
request of the gentleman from New Jersey?
  There was no objection.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to House Resolution 473 and rule 
XVIII, the Chair declares the House in the Committee of the Whole House 
on the state of the Union for the consideration of the bill, H.R. 3219.
  The Chair appoints the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. Bost) to preside 
over the Committee of the Whole.

                              {time}  1511


                     In the Committee of the Whole

  Accordingly, the House resolved itself into the Committee of the 
Whole House on the state of the Union for the consideration of the bill 
(H.R. 3219) making appropriations for the Department of Defense for the 
fiscal year ending September 30, 2018, and for other purposes, with Mr. 
Bost in the chair.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The CHAIR. Pursuant to the rule, the bill is considered read the 
first time. General debate shall be confined to the bill and not exceed 
2 hours equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on Appropriations.
  The gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Frelinghuysen) and the gentlewoman 
from New York (Mrs. Lowey) each will control 60 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from New Jersey.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself 6 minutes.
  Mr. Chairman, I rise today to present an amendment to H.R. 3219, the 
Make America Secure Appropriations Act. This legislative package 
provides critical appropriations for national security, including for 
the Department of Defense, the Department of Veterans Affairs, the 
Department of Energy's nuclear programs, and the Legislative Branch 
bill.
  My colleagues, this is the primary constitutional duty of the 
Congress: to ensure the safety of the homeland and the American people.
  This legislation is carefully crafted to meet that responsibility: 
funding our critical military priorities, supporting veterans, and 
making our borders more secure.
  The core of this package is full-year funding for the Department of 
Defense and the intelligence community. I thank Chairwoman Granger for 
her leadership.
  In total, the Defense portion of the bill provides $658.1 billion for 
these functions, an increase of $68.1 billion in base discretionary 
funding above the fiscal year 2017 enacted levels.
  There is no doubt that this is a significant increase from the 
current spending levels, and certainly from the last 8 years. But this 
increase is vitally important to continue the process we started this 
spring: to rebuild, repair, and re-equip our Armed Forces that we 
started in the 2017 appropriations package.

                              {time}  1515

  Mr. Chairman, Secretary of Defense Mattis has quite correctly made 
readiness and modernization of our forces his top priorities.
  It is a fact today that we have too many aircraft that cannot fly, 
too many ships that cannot sail, and too many troops who cannot deploy 
either because they are not properly trained or there are not enough of 
them.
  So how did we get there? Because in recent years, we have been just 
getting by--reducing investments in our military as the world becomes 
more dangerous, and avoiding tough choices.
  The package before us today will sustain a much-needed rebuilding of 
our military after a half decade of cuts, while our troops remained in 
constant combat, as they do today.
  We provided prioritized funding to necessary but unfunded equipment 
and weapons platforms. We have boosted missile defense, a program that 
has taken on critical importance as North Korea, unabatedly, tries to 
marry its nuclear warheads with new ballistic missiles.
  We increased funding for the vital training that prepares our 
warfighter for any contingency. This legislation also supports our 
military families. After all, they serve, too. We included a 2.4 
percent pay increase for our servicemen and -women, the largest such 
raise in 8 years, and they deserve it.
  Within the Military Construction and Veterans portion of this bill--
and I thank Chairman Dent for his leadership--military infrastructure 
funding has increased by 25 percent above current levels. We continue 
our efforts to rebuild our Armed Forces by ensuring that our 
warfighters have the support they need.
  We cannot forget those who have served. This measure increases 
funding to the Department of Veterans Affairs to 5 percent over current 
levels to provide veterans and their families with access to medical 
care and other benefits they have earned and deserve.
  Within the Energy and Water section of this legislation--I thank 
Chairman Simpson for his leadership--funding is prioritized for 
critical nuclear programs that will help strengthen our security and 
deter threats around the globe.
  We also support the maintenance of our Nation's waterways and support 
the work of the Army Corps to also ensure the resilience and security 
of our electricity infrastructure.
  We recommit to opening Yucca Mountain as a safe and secure location 
to permanently store the Nation's nuclear fuel and high-level 
radioactive wastes, and we promote basic science programs, which lay 
the foundation for new energy technologies.
  Finally, Mr. Chairman, this package also includes funding for 
important legislative branch functions--and I thank Chairman Yoder for 
his leadership--improving security to ensure

[[Page H6336]]

that our Members, our staffs, and visitors to this wonderful Capitol 
complex are always well protected.
  Mr. Chairman, before I close, I offer thanks to members of the 
Appropriations Committee for their hard work and tough decisions over 
the past few months producing two appropriations bills, fiscal year 
2017 and 2018, in less than 3 months.
  As you know, we received the President's budget on May 23, just over 
2 months ago, and since then, we have worked nonstop to put all 12 
bills through the committee in record time. Each and every one of these 
bills deserves to be sent to the President's desk. I look forward to 
completing our work on all of our bills.
  I also would like to extend my personal thanks to the entire 
committee and to our remarkable staff for their hard work on these 
bills and the eight yet to come.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.

[[Page H6337]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH26JY17.001



[[Page H6338]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH26JY17.002



[[Page H6339]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH26JY17.003



[[Page H6340]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH26JY17.004



[[Page H6341]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH26JY17.005



[[Page H6342]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH26JY17.006



[[Page H6343]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH26JY17.007



[[Page H6344]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH26JY17.008



[[Page H6345]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH26JY17.009



[[Page H6346]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH26JY17.010



[[Page H6347]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH26JY17.011



[[Page H6348]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH26JY17.012



[[Page H6349]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH26JY17.013



[[Page H6350]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH26JY17.014



[[Page H6351]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH26JY17.015



[[Page H6352]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH26JY17.016



[[Page H6353]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH26JY17.017



[[Page H6354]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH26JY17.018



[[Page H6355]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH26JY17.019



[[Page H6356]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH26JY17.020



[[Page H6357]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH26JY17.021



[[Page H6358]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH26JY17.022



[[Page H6359]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH26JY17.023



[[Page H6360]]

  

  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chair, I yield myself 4 minutes.
  Typically, the Legislative Branch, Military Construction and Veterans 
Affairs, Energy and Water, and Defense bills would be debated and 
amended by the full House individually. Regrettably, we are debating 
this $790 billion so-called security minibus in only 2 hours for some 
reason other than necessity. Substantive amendments chosen at the 
discretion of the chairman of the Rules Committee will be debated for 
10 minutes. We also expect $1.6 billion in border wall funding to be 
added through a rules gimmick meant to prevent an up-or-down vote on 
the wall.
  The undemocratic maneuver by the Rules Committee to unilaterally 
remove Congresswoman Barbara Lee's amendment to debate a new AUMF, 
which received bipartisan support in the committee, is simply 
outrageous. All the promises of Republican leadership of returning to 
regular order have been broken.
  I do, however, want to thank Chairman Frelinghuysen for conducting 
business in the Appropriations Committee markups fairly and 
collegially, as the minority offered amendments late into the night.
  On top of the many procedural inequities, however, the majority's 
increased defense spending is a mirage. Shattering budget control caps 
would trigger automatic, across-the-board cuts of 13 percent to every 
defense account. Yet, the majority pretends the sequester, which would 
cut $72 billion in defense funding in this bill, isn't real.
  I want to make it very clear that Democrats are ready to work with 
our Republican colleagues to raise the caps on defense, but we must 
also raise the caps on important domestic priorities. Playing politics 
with the bill that funds the troops by inserting the toxic border wall 
into it is really beyond the pale.
  Why not include the FBI, or the entire Homeland Security bill? If the 
intention is to pass security-related bills, securing our homeland goes 
beyond the Department of Defense and our own budgets in the legislative 
branch.
  The Republican approach to funding our government for FY18 all but 
guarantees a short-term, if not a full-year, continuing resolution--
just like every year. Democratic votes will be needed to enact 
appropriation law, and I really do hope we will soon start to work 
together again to invest responsibly in both defense and nondefense 
priorities to grow the economy, create jobs, and secure the country.
  As I conclude, I want to thank our distinguished chairman, Mr. 
Frelinghuysen, and his outstanding staff, as well as my outstanding 
staff.
  The CHAIR. The time of the gentlewoman has expired.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chair, I yield myself an additional 1 minute.
  However, I urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on this bill which would 
waste $1.6 billion on Trump's border wall, use fraudulent defense 
numbers, gut critical investments in clean energy, include poison-pill 
riders, and leave the remaining spending bills with no path forward.
  Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chair, I am pleased to yield 4 minutes to the 
gentleman from Kentucky (Mr. Rogers), the former chairman of the full 
committee and now the chairman of the State, Foreign Operations, and 
Related Programs Subcommittee.
  Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky. Mr. Chairman, thank you for yielding the 
time. Congratulations to you on your maiden voyage in this role that 
you are occupying--very expertly, I might add. During the forced march 
that we undertook in the committee for the last 3 weeks, clearing all 
12 bills through the full committee in a historically record time, we 
had a good drill sergeant, Mr. Frelinghuysen. Thank you for doing a 
great job.
  We held 74 oversight and budget hearings, heard from over 400 
witnesses, with the overarching goal that each of the 12 bills we 
passed out of our committee addressed the needs of our constituents. I 
am proud to say that these bills do just that--advance our national 
defense and secure our borders, take care of our veterans, provide 
critical infrastructure funding, increase resources to combat the 
opioid epidemic, maintain our presence as a leader in global 
diplomacy--all the while maintaining fiscal discipline.
  I am disappointed that we won't consider all 12 of these bills before 
the August recess, but this security package is an important step 
forward. It will ensure that we, as the Congress, uphold our most 
sacred responsibility to provide for our Nation's common defense.
  Under the previous administration, our Department of Defense faced 
needless uncertainty. I am proud that we are now turning the tide, 
providing our troops and their commanders with the necessary resources 
to respond to threats from countries like Russia, China, and Iran, as 
well as crush the violent extremists who wish to do us harm.
  As promised to the American people, we are rebuilding and modernizing 
our military as an international powerhouse by better equipping our 
troops, strengthening counterterrorism efforts, and reestablishing 
confidence with our allies. At a time when our enemies continue to 
advance around the globe, the U.S. must remain at the forefront of 
military readiness and advanced technology to strengthen national 
defense at home and abroad.
  This bill also maintains our commitment to those brave men and women 
after their service has come to a close, providing for greater 
oversight and accountability at the VA and modernizing electronic 
health records to help our veterans receive the high quality of care 
they deserve.
  I am also pleased that this legislation includes the Energy and Water 
Appropriations bill, which funds many of our national security 
interests and builds upon our country's essential infrastructure needs. 
In particular, this bill protects the Appalachian Regional Commission, 
ARC, from proposed elimination, and ensures that its critical programs 
will continue in our hardest hit Appalachian coal communities.
  Since 1965, ARC has led efforts to innovate, partner, and invest in 
the region to build community capacity and strengthen economic growth. 
These investments have led to the creation of thousands of new jobs. It 
has improved local water and sewer systems, improved our schools, 
increased access to healthcare, and provided critical assistance to 
emerging businesses. After 8 years of strangulation by regulation in 
the Obama administration's war on coal, Appalachia needs the ARC now 
more than ever.
  Mr. Chairman, thank you again for allowing me to speak on behalf of 
this bill. Is it everything we wanted? No. It is critical that we 
prioritize our national security, and that is what this bill does.
  Mr. Chairman, the motto of our Appropriations Committee is this: ``A 
vision without funding is a hallucination.'' Now we have got a 
visionary leader in our chairman, but we have got to provide the 
funding to make the dreams that we have come true, and that is what 
Appropriations does.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I am pleased to yield 6 minutes to the 
gentlewoman from Ohio (Ms. Kaptur).
  Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chairman, I thank Ranking Member Lowey for the time, 
and I also thank Chairman Frelinghuysen on his maiden voyage--not his 
first voyage, but his first as chair of the full committee--and the 
members of our fine subcommittee, and especially the staff.
  I want to thank Chairman Simpson for his fine leadership and value 
the hard work that he put into this bill and his congeniality 
throughout the process.
  I also want to thank our staff on both sides of the aisle for the 
many hours of hard work and dedication: Taunja Berquam on our side, 
Donna Shahbaz for the majority, and TJ Lowdermilk on my own staff.
  I appreciate that the chairman has allowed robust funding to the 
Corps of Engineers, which translates into real jobs from coast to 
coast.

                              {time}  1530

  I also am pleased that this bill restores the more than $900 million 
that the administration proposed to cut from the science account and 
provides reasonable funding for energy-saving weatherization in both 
cold and hot climates across our Nation.
  Unfortunately, the artificially low allocation has forced the 
chairman to make deep cuts to some of the most

[[Page H6361]]

important programs in the bill, most notably the Office of Energy 
Efficiency & Renewable Energy.
  Too many here in Washington have been fooled by the rhetoric that 
poses a false choice between the environment and the economy. But, 
today, 288,000 Americans work in auto industry supply chain jobs 
manufacturing the parts that make vehicles cleaner and more fuel 
efficient. In addition, 360,000 people work in the solar industry. The 
single fastest growing job in America is wind turbine technician. An 
investment in clean energy is an investment in American jobs and our 
future.
  The response of this bill?
  An 83 percent cut from the Vehicle Technologies Office--now that is a 
backwards move;
  A 60 percent cut to the Advanced Manufacturing Office--and this 
Member is unwilling to see that turn to the Chinese;
  A 57 percent cut to solar energy--one of the fastest growing job 
sectors in our country;
  A 65 percent cut to wind energy; and
  ARPA-E, the most complex new energy technologies, zero; the program 
is eliminated.
  These cuts cede the future to offshore competitors who are hacking 
into our intellectual property and the bank accounts of firms involved 
in these industries hundreds of times a month trying to coopt their 
energy technology that American taxpayers have helped to develop.
  In an era where Wall Street chases short-term quarterly profits and 
ever-improving earnings reports, we owe it to our constituents and to 
our progeny to play the long game--making investments that may take 
decades to pay off, but they will. The longtime horizon in large 
initial capital investments of the energy sector for America means 
that, more than any other, path-breaking energy research needs Federal 
support until it becomes commercially viable because energy research is 
complex.
  Though energy is an overlooked ingredient in economic supremacy, 
those nations that master its dimensions are leading in economic 
growth.
  For decades, American Presidents have made statements targeting 
energy independence. That makes national security sense. But this year, 
that target is finally in sight. A recent Energy Information 
Administration report expects the United States to be a net energy 
exporter by 2026. The Department of Energy deserves great credit for 
bringing us to this point.
  Beginning back in the old 1970s and eighties when this all got 
started, it took 30 years of Department of Energy support in concert 
with the private sector to unleash the fracking revolution that has 
helped change our world dramatically. Where was that technology 
developed? At the Department of Energy, and it didn't happen in a year 
or 2. It took years. The next revolution will be the clean energy 
revolution. We must not forfeit that game.
  Finally, I would like to raise my concerns over the controversial 
riders that threaten not only the ultimate enactment of this bill, but 
also our most precious resource: water. Exempting the repeal of the 
Clean Water Rule from the Administrative Procedure Act cedes far too 
much authority to the executive branch and is something that I cannot 
support.
  For that reason, and for the draconian cuts to clean energy, I must 
urge my colleagues to oppose the Energy and Water portion of this 
spending package. When those concerns are rolled together with busting 
the spending caps and building an expensive border wall that doesn't 
keep us safe or solve our immigration needs, I believe that there is no 
excuse for any Democrat to support the overall bill before us.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chairman, I am pleased to yield 5 minutes to 
the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. Granger) who is the chair of the 
Defense Subcommittee.
  Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Chairman, today we consider the Make America Secure 
Appropriations Act which includes the Defense Appropriations bill for 
fiscal year 2018. I ask all Members for their support of this very 
important legislation.
  Congress' number one responsibility is to provide for the defense of 
this Nation. It is this bill that fulfills that most fundamental 
constitutional duty. This is urgent because the world is more dangerous 
and unstable than any time in recent history.
  North Korea is increasing the frequency of their missile tests, 
threatening American soil and our allies. On the Fourth of July, they 
launched an intercontinental ballistic missile.
  Russia continues to create instability in Ukraine, the Baltics, and 
the Balkans. They recklessly support and protect President Assad, the 
tyrant who has murdered thousands of Syrian men, women, and children. 
These actions hinder our fight against ISIS.
  China is militarizing the South China Sea and modernizing their 
military at an alarming pace. Just this week, Chinese fighter jets flew 
close to a U.S. reconnaissance aircraft in an aggressive and dangerous 
manner.
  Iran is increasing its influence in Iraq, Syria, and Yemen, and they 
remain hostile. Just yesterday, an Iranian vessel pursued a U.S. Navy 
ship at a high speed in the Persian Gulf, forcing our ship to fire 
warning shots to halt the aggression.
  Meanwhile, ISIS and al-Qaida terrorists continue to spread their 
perverted version of Islam across Europe, Africa, Asia, and the Middle 
East.
  All of our adversaries are acting in an aggressive and emboldened 
manner. We must ensure that the U.S. military is prepared to confront 
anyone who threatens us. This can only be done by reversing the years 
of budget instability, sequestration, and continuous cuts.
  Since becoming chair, I have made it my priority to listen first and 
foremost to our defense and intelligence experts, and this bill before 
you reflects their expert advice. This bill provides Secretary of 
Defense Mattis the resources he needs to rebuild our military and form 
a new national defense strategy.
  It has been an honor to work with my ranking member, Mr. Visclosky, 
who has played a valuable role in this process. I want to thank Mr. 
Frelinghuysen, Ranking Member Lowey, and all the members of the Defense 
Subcommittee for their involvement and their contributions.
  I would also like to thank the staff of the Defense Subcommittee: 
Jennifer Miller, Sherry Young, Walter Hearne, Brooke Boyer, B.G. 
Wright, Adrienne Ramsay, Allison Deters, Cornell Teaugue, Collin Lee, 
and Matt Bower; as well as Rebecca Leggieri, Jennifer Chartrand, and 
Chris Bigelow on the minority staff.
  From the personal staff, I thank Johnnie Kaberle, Jason Schenck, Joe 
DeVooght, and Adam Kahnke.
  In closing, I must remind the House of Joint Chief of Staff Chairman 
Dunford's words when he told us that ``without sustained, sufficient, 
and predictable funding, I assess that within 5 years we will lose our 
ability to project power; the basis of how we defend the homeland, 
advance U.S. interests, and meet our alliance commitments.''
  To ensure this doesn't happen, the bill includes $28.6 billion above 
the President's request for a National Defense Restoration Fund. We 
must keep this funding intact.
  We need to heed Secretary Mattis' warning and give our military what 
it needs--no less. This is not a partisan issue. Again, I ask all my 
colleagues for their support.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I am pleased to yield 6 minutes to the 
distinguished gentlewoman from California (Ms. Roybal-Allard) who is 
the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security.
  Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Mr. Chairman, it is difficult to understand how a 
Make America Secure Appropriations minibus does not include the bill 
for the Department of Homeland Security which is responsible for 
security at our borders, security in the coastal maritime environment, 
security for air and surface transportation, security of cyber networks 
and critical infrastructure, and helping State and local jurisdictions 
prepare for, prevent, and respond to terrorist attacks and natural 
disasters.
  Instead of including the entire DHS funding bill in the minibus, the 
majority is expected to use a second rule to insert just one part of 
that bill--funding for the President's border wall--ignoring much more 
pressing and immediate security needs.
  Furthermore, because the Department has failed to submit to Congress 
a required report laying out the long-term plan and justification for 
border

[[Page H6362]]

infrastructure, Members of Congress are unable to responsibly evaluate 
the long-term border security strategy and comprehensively assess its 
costs, benefits, and trade-offs.
  Given this enormous $1.6 billion initial price tag, Members should, 
at a minimum, have the opportunity to vote on it separately and in the 
context of the entire Homeland Security bill. I submitted an amendment 
to prohibit the use of funds for border wall construction, and I hope 
the Rules Committee will make it in order.
  While I do not support the DHS bill in its current form, I firmly 
believe the House would be in a stronger position to make a more 
informed and responsible decision on how best to invest these $1.6 
billion in the context of debating and amending the entire Department 
of Homeland Security funding bill.
  For example, instead of using $1.6 billion of taxpayer money for just 
74 miles of border wall, we could pay for the first two heavy Coast 
Guard icebreakers which are critically needed to help the United States 
better counter the ever-increasing Russian presence in the Arctic.
  Or we could invest in additional technology and hire thousands of new 
customs officers at every air, land, and sea port of entry in the 
United States, reducing wait times for travelers, better facilitating 
the flow of commerce and contributing to economic growth.
  This would also enhance our ability to intercept more illegal 
narcotics and other contraband because, contrary to what some may 
think, the vast majority of the worst illicit drugs flowing into our 
country arrive through the ports of entry, not between the ports. In 
2016, 86 percent of the heroin and 81 percent of the cocaine and 
methamphetamine came through the ports of entry. In other words, more 
physical barriers at the border--in addition to the 654 miles of 
fencing already in place--is a misguided and ineffective strategy to 
address drug smuggling.
  In addition to the fact that we could be using these $1.6 billion for 
more pressing security needs, I am concerned that, by including only 
border wall funding from the DHS Appropriations bill, we would be 
sending a terrible message to frontline homeland security personnel--
many of whom routinely put their personal safety at risk to serve our 
country--that the President's border wall is more important than all 
the work they do.

  Mr. Chairman, when it comes to the security of our Nation and the 
American people, we in Congress have an obligation to act in their best 
interests and to invest their tax dollars wisely. If the only homeland 
security item in this bill is funding for 74 miles of border wall, we 
will fail to meet that obligation.
  This bill should not include funding for a border wall, and the House 
should have an opportunity to vote on this funding in the context of 
the entire Homeland Security funding bill.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge a ``no'' vote on this bill.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chairman I am pleased to yield 5 minutes to 
the gentleman from Idaho (Mr. Simpson) who is the chair of the Energy 
and Water Development and Related Agencies Subcommittee on 
Appropriations.
  Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Chairman, it is my distinct honor to bring the 
fiscal year 2018 Energy and Water bill before you today.
  Before I go into the details, I would like to recognize Chairman 
Frelinghuysen. It is because of his leadership and unswerving 
commitment to the appropriations process that our committee has managed 
to bring 12 bills through the full committee process and have them 
ready for consideration by the House.
  I would also like to thank Ranking Members Lowey and Kaptur. As 
always, their thoughtful approach to issues has made this a better 
bill.
  The bill totals $37.6 billion, which is $209 million less than last 
year's level and $3.2 billion above the request.

                              {time}  1545

  Increases over last year are targeted to those areas where they are 
needed most: to provide for our Nation's defense and support our 
Nation's infrastructure.
  The bill provides strong support for the Department of Energy's 
national defense programs. Weapons activities is funded at $10.24 
billion, up $921 million from last year's level, to keep our Nation's 
nuclear deterrent reliable and effective.
  This increase will fully fund the ongoing stockpile life extension 
programs and will make substantial progress toward addressing the 
continued deterioration of infrastructure across the enterprise. The 
recommendations for Naval Reactors is $1.49 billion, and includes full 
funding for the Columbia-class ballistic missile submarine, formerly 
referred to as the Ohio-class replacement.
  Additionally, the bill provides funding increases across the 
Department of Energy to defend against cyber attacks and, within 
Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability, to strengthen energy 
sector cybersecurity preparedness, response, and recovery.
  This bill addresses the critical infrastructure work of the Army 
Corps of Engineers, providing a total of $6.2 billion, an increase of 
$120 million more than last year.
  This recommendation makes full use of all annual revenues from the 
Inland Waterways Trust Fund.
  The harbor maintenance trust fund activities are funded at $1.34 
billion, which is $40 million more than fiscal year 2017, an increase 
of $375 million above the budget request, and the same as the WRDA 
target.
  The bill provides $74 million more than last year for flood and storm 
damage reduction activities.
  This is a responsibile bill, one that makes some difficult choices in 
order to prioritize the most critical Federal programs. As a result, as 
has been mentioned already, this bill eliminates the Advanced Research 
Projects Agency-Energy--or ARPA-E, as it is known--and the title 17 
loan guarantee program of the Department of Energy, as proposed by the 
President.
  I realized some people are concerned about that. These are programs 
that I happen to like also. But this is what happens when you are $20 
trillion in debt: you have to make tough choices. And that is what the 
Appropriations Committee is doing: making some of the difficult choices 
that we have to make.
  This bill includes a number of targeted investments above the budget 
request to ensure a secure, independent, and prosperous energy future.
  Mr. Chairman, this is a strong bill that will protect our national 
security interests, address our most pressing infrastructure needs, and 
advance our economy. I urge everyone to support it.
  I would like to thank the staff of the Energy and Water Committee, 
both ranking and minority members, and of the full committee, for the 
work they have done in making sure we can get this bill to the floor.
  Again, I urge Members to support this bill.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield 6 minutes to the gentleman from 
Ohio (Mr. Ryan), the distinguished ranking member of the Subcommittee 
on the Legislative Branch.
  Mr. RYAN of Ohio. Mr. Chairman, while I rise to oppose this 
appropriations package, even though the Legislative Branch division of 
this package is worthy of our support, I commend Chairman Yoder both 
for the product and for the way he reached across the aisle to work 
with me and other members of our committee and the minority in this 
process.
  For all of their hard work, I would also like to thank Liz Dawson, 
who is on their team; Jenny Panone and Tim Monahan from the Legislative 
Branch minority staff; Joe Eannello from Chairman Yoder's office; Adam 
Berg on the minority staff; and Anne Sokolov and Ryan Keating on my 
team.
  This year's Legislative Branch appropriations bill would, among other 
things, allow us to catch up on some deferred maintenance in our 
buildings; invest in information technology to modernize the Library of 
Congress, Congressional Research Service, and Copyright Office; and 
adjust to the new cybersecurity environment faced here in the United 
States Congress.
  I am also pleased to see that this bill provides additional funds for 
the Sergeant at Arms and the Capitol Police to increase congressional 
security in the wake of the tragic shooting at our congressional 
baseball practice several months back.
  Our goal is to give them the resources they need to maintain the 
security on the Capitol campus and increase their coverage of Members 
and

[[Page H6363]]

gatherings of Members that might be targeted. It is the responsibility 
of the House to look out for our safety and the safety of our 
constituents and staff, and the funding included in this bill is a step 
in the right direction.
  There are things I hope we can improve on as the bill moves forward. 
For example, I would like to see more money for personnel at the 
Library and CRS, not just for information technology; and more for the 
Government Accountability Office, which is flat-funded in this budget. 
Because of inflation, GAO will have 200 fewer employees than expected 
at the end of the year.
  GAO's audits and investigations root out waste, fraud, and abuse in 
government, something that we all agree upon here should be done. With 
the Trump administration resisting all of this oversight, GAO is more 
important today than it ever has been.
  While I would support the Legislative Branch bill if it came to the 
floor on its own, unfortunately, we are not considering it on its own.
  I oppose tying $1.6 billion of wasted taxpayer money for President 
Trump's border wall to the Legislative Branch bill. We need bipartisan, 
comprehensive immigration reform, which would include smarter, more 
effective enforcement of our laws.
  A few years ago, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office said 
immigration reform would reduce our deficit by $900 billion and 
increase real GDP growth by over 3 percent. But simply building a 
ridiculous wall that faces opposition from both Democrats and 
Republicans won't do anything for our economy, and it isn't even a 
cost-effective way to strengthen enforcement.
  Besides, we were told repeatedly over the course of the last 18 
months that Mexico would pay for the wall. They would ask the 
President: Who is going to pay for the wall? Mexico is going to pay for 
the wall.
  Why is there a single dime of American taxpayer money for a border 
wall that President Trump promised Mexico would finance?
  I oppose the Republicans' partisan budget strategy. By refusing to 
work with Democrats on a bipartisan budget deal that raises the Budget 
Control Act caps, Republicans are seriously risking some combination of 
sequestration, stopgap funding bills, government shutdown, and a 
catastrophic default on our national debt.
  Nondefense discretionary spending is one-sixth of the Federal budget. 
Having already cut it to the bone, they are now sawing off the limbs.
  The Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations 
bill; the Transportation bill; and the Financial Services bill that 
funds consumer protections and regulation of big banks will all see big 
cuts because of the draconian spending caps.
  Today's package will squeeze out investments in our infrastructure, 
jobs programs, early childhood education, scientific research, and all 
the things that need to be priorities. We are turning our backs on 
working families across the country who depend on these programs every 
day.
  We all believe in the free market system. We all believe in 
capitalism. We all want to reward risk-takers and provide a good 
environment for growth for those men and women who will make the 
investments to hire the workers. But capitalism is not a perfect 
system.
  It is these programs in this bill that we need to fund to make sure 
that we grow the entire economy, that we have sustained growth, we 
invest in education, we invest in research, and we invest in 
transportation infrastructure, in order for us to grow the economy.
  As former Appropriations Chairman David Obey used to say, those 
programs were about ``knocking the rough edges off of capitalism.'' On 
this side of the aisle, we believe making those investments is best for 
the economy. That is what is at stake.
  Yes, we must adequately fund defense, veterans programs, and the 
legislative branch of government. But that can't come at the expense of 
everything else.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chairman, I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. Dent), chairman of the Military Construction, 
Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Subcommittee on Appropriations.
  Mr. DENT. Mr. Chairman, the Appropriations Act before you today 
includes, in division C, appropriations for Military Construction, 
Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies for Fiscal Year 2018. Division C 
is exactly the same as the MILCON-VA bill reported favorably out of the 
full committee on June 15.
  Thanks to the leadership of Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen from New 
Jersey, Ranking Member Nita Lowey from New York, and the partnership of 
Ranking Member Debbie Wasserman Schultz from Florida, this will provide 
necessary funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs and military 
construction projects. We were able to include the vast majority of the 
subcommittee's over 1,000 Member requests.
  This division demonstrates our firm commitment to fully supporting 
our Nation's veterans and servicemembers. The total investment is $89 
billion for Military Construction, VA, and Related Agencies, which is 
$6 billion above last year's level.
  This division provides comprehensive support for servicemembers, 
military families, and veterans. We must make infrastructure 
investments if we value readiness. This bill increases military 
construction by 25 percent over last year's level, delivering on our 
promise to the troops in line with the President's focus on national 
defense.
  It supports our troops with the facilities and services necessary to 
maintain readiness and morale at bases here in the States and overseas. 
It provides for Defense Department schools and health clinics that take 
care of our military families.
  This division funds our veteran healthcare systems to ensure that our 
promise to care for those who have sacrificed in defense of this great 
Nation continues as those men and women return home. We owe this to our 
veterans, and we are committed to sustained oversight so that programs 
deliver what they promise and taxpayers are well-served by the 
investments we make.
  The staff deserves credit for the sustained work and very long hours. 
I would like to recognize Sue Quantius, Sarah Young, Tracey Russell, 
Maureen Holohan, and Matt Washington on the committee staff, and Sean 
Snyder on my personal staff.
  On the military construction piece, this division provides a total of 
$10.2 billion for military construction projects and family housing, 
including base and overseas contingency operations funding, an 
increase over last year's level and $197 million below the President's 
request.

  This funding meets DOD's most critical needs, including priority 
projects for the combatant commanders and funding new mission 
requirements.
  It provide $737 million for military medical facilities. It provides 
$249 million for Department of Defense education facilities for 
construction of renovation of four schools. It supports our Guard and 
Reserves through $575 million for facilities in 22 States.
  It also funds military family housing at $1.4 billion. It provides 
$178 million for the NATO Security Investment Program, which is $24 
million over the President's request, to deal with increasing threats 
and necessary investments overseas. Given all that is happening by 
Russia's very bad behavior in Eastern Europe and elsewhere, this 
investment is absolutely essential.
  We were able to also include an additional $439 million in the 
services' unfunded priorities, which are priority projects that were 
not included in the budget request. It is very important to many 
Members of this body.
  On Veterans Affairs, the legislation includes a total of $78.3 
billion in discretionary funding for the Department of Veterans 
Affairs. That is a $3.9 billion increase, or 5 percent, above fiscal 
year 2017 level. It is the highest level of VA funding ever provided.
  On VA medical care, the bill funds it at $69 billion, the full 
request, including an additional $2.6 billion beyond the advanced 
appropriations to cover unanticipated needs. Many Members expressed 
concerns about medical care issues, and were able to fully fund the 
budget request for mental health services at $8.4 billion; suicide 
prevention outreach at $186 million; homeless veterans treatment, 
services, housing, and job training at $7.3 billion; opioid abuse 
prevention at $50 million--we began that in the omnibus last year--
rural health initiatives at $250 million; and caregiver stipends at 
$604 million.

[[Page H6364]]

  


                              {time}  1600

  We repeat last year's bill language regarding improved standards for 
the suicide prevention hotline. For disability claims processing, again 
another issue very important to so many Members in this body, but 
particularly to our veterans who are seeking services from the VA, or 
benefits, we provide $2.9 billion, which is $50 million over the 
request. As the number of disability applications increases, we need to 
be vigilant to be sure that the claims backlog doesn't reappear.
  The Acting CHAIR (Mr. Smith of Nebraska). The time of the gentleman 
has expired.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chairman, I yield an additional 30 seconds to 
the gentleman.
  Mr. DENT. Mr. Chair, this legislation also contains $65 million, as 
requested, as VA switches gears and moves from modernizing its own 
aging electronic health record to acquiring the record DOD is using. 
The bill continues to include language restricting most of the funding 
until the VA meets milestones and certifies interoperability to meet 
statutory requirements.
  Our bill increases the request for VA research funding by $58 
million, to a total of $698 million, recognizing strong congressional 
interest in the VA's research to combat devastating conditions like 
PTSD and traumatic brain injury.
  In major construction, we continue oversight of those projects, 
holding back funding until it has contracted for outside management.
  In closing, I ask Members to support this important piece of 
legislation. It is very important to our servicemembers, our veterans, 
and their families.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from 
California (Ms. Pelosi), the Democratic leader.
  Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Chair, I thank the gentlewoman from New York, the 
distinguished ranking member of the Appropriations Committee, for 
yielding, and more importantly, for her great leadership to advance the 
values of our country in allocation of resources. And I always admire 
the work of Mr. Frelinghuysen, our distinguished chairman, as well. We 
may have a matter of disagreement here today, though.
  Mr. Chair, all of us, Members of Congress, all elected officials, 
people who serve in any office, take a solemn oath to support and 
defend the Constitution, and that is an oath to protect the American 
people.
  Democrats, indeed all Americans, believe in a strong national 
defense. We believe in strong investments in our defense and in our 
brave men and women in uniform, in particular.
  But far from strengthening our security, the falsely inflated numbers 
in this spending bill will create uncertainty for our military and 
hollow out America's communities at home.
  We face serious threats in the world. We know that. Those threats 
demand serious consideration in Congress. We should be making serious 
decisions about our national security mission. What is our mission? 
What are the resources that we need?
  We don't want to spend more than we need, but we don't want to spend 
less, and we should not be posturing in the Defense bill with false 
numbers and no real answers about the mission that these dollars would 
fund.
  We do not give certainty to our defense or confidence to our troops 
when we legislate with phony numbers when we refuse to make honest 
choices about our Defense budget.
  Instead of giving certainty to our heroes in uniform, this bill would 
breach the sequester spending limit by more than $70 billion, forcing a 
mandatory 13 percent cut to all Defense accounts.
  These phony numbers in this bill not only do violence to our Defense 
budget, they starve the strength of America by ransacking our domestic 
investments.
  In order to be the strongest possible America, we must measure our 
strength not only in our military might, but in the health, education, 
and well-being of the American people.
  And that is what the problem is, that we are stealing from the 
domestic budget with phony numbers for the Defense budget, which will 
be because of the sequester cut to the Defense accounts by 13 percent 
as we starve our domestic investments.
  Besides the direct danger this bill poses to our military, it is 
laden with poison pills. It would squander billions of taxpayer dollars 
on President Trump's immoral, ineffective, and expensive border wall.
  The President said, during the campaign, he said: ``I promise a 
wall.'' No. He promised a wall that Mexico would pay for. He said it 
would cost $4 billion to $6 billion. The fact is it could cost as much 
as $30 billion, $40 billion, and he wants a down payment for that wall 
in this bill--one poison pill.
  It also eliminates ARPA-E, the advanced energy research vital to our 
energy independence and to our national security to keep America the 
innovation superpower of the 21st century.
  Democrats will continue to demand real leadership to strengthen our 
national defense.
  Mr. Chair, on this day, July 26, 1948, President Harry Truman signed 
the executive order desegregating the U.S. military. How great that was 
for America. How great it is for our country to benefit from the 
service of so many people who had been serving all along but now with 
dignity and respect, which was justified.
  So how sad it is on this same day that the President of the United 
States, 69 years ago, recognized the value of respecting our men and 
women in uniform, that the Commander in Chief, the President of the 
United States, fired 15,000 courageous men and women in uniform in a 
vile, hateful tweet. His actions regarding transgenders in the military 
were unworthy of their bravery and unworthy of the American people.
  Let us be thankful for the blessings of all of our men and women in 
uniform, our veterans who have served us, and our military families to 
whom we owe so much. Their courage, their service and leadership, and 
their sacrifice are what truly makes us the land of the free and the 
home of the brave, and it insists that we be serious and real and 
evidence-based as we make decisions about how we invest in the security 
of our country.

  Mr. Chair, I urge a ``no'' vote.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chairman, I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman 
from Kansas (Mr. Yoder), the chairman of the Legislative Branch 
Subcommittee on Appropriations.
  Mr. YODER. Mr. Chairman, I rise today to speak in favor of the bill 
before us, paying particular attention to the work of the Legislative 
Branch Subcommittee.
  I first want to thank my colleagues, Chairman Frelinghuysen and 
Ranking Member Lowey, for their leadership; and Ranking Member Ryan, 
who has been a gentleman and a scholar, for working with me to develop 
this product, a great example of how representatives from opposite 
sides of the line can work together and create a model bipartisanship 
to build great legislation for the American people.
  Our total recommendation for the fiscal year 2018 Legislative Branch 
is $3.58 billion. In this bill, we focused on Capitol improvements, 
better security, more transparency and accountability all in a fiscally 
responsible manner.
  First and foremost, Mr. Chairman, the House continues to lead by 
example in its frugal operations. With this bill, we will be spending 
12 percent below the 2010 levels, showing the American people fiscal 
discipline starts here in our House operations first.
  We also continue the policy of denying pay increases to Members of 
Congress for the eighth fiscal year in a row. This Republican Congress 
has tightened its belt since taking the majority, and we have never 
allowed a pay increase for Members of Congress, and we aren't allowing 
one today, saving taxpayers over $68 million since 2011.
  In light of the recent shooting where Republican Members of Congress 
were targeted for their beliefs and our colleague and majority whip, 
Steve Scalise, was seriously wounded, this bill takes new focus on the 
security related to Congress, and I would like to recognize the United 
States Capitol Police Special Agents Crystal Griner and David Bailey.
  As we all know in this body, the U.S. Capitol Police protect us, our 
staff, and the more than 9 million visitors we get here each year with 
bravery, putting their lives on the line each and every day to keep us 
safe.
  Special Agents Griner and Bailey put that heroism on display for the 
country and the world when they saved numerous Members of Congress from 
an

[[Page H6365]]

attack at practice where some 25 of our colleagues were preparing for 
the Congressional Baseball Game for Charity. Their courage under fire 
saved the lives of countless Members of Congress, staff, and innocent 
bystanders, and both of them were wounded while carrying out their 
duties.
  Steve Scalise, Matt Mika, and Zack Barth, who were also injured that 
day, and everyone else on that baseball field, are alive today because 
of those Capitol Police officers, and we continue to wish a speedy 
recovery to everyone who has been injured.
  We, as a Congress, owe it to the Capitol Police to ensure they have 
the necessary resources to meet their mission in an increasingly 
polarized climate. And after working with Mr. Ryan, we believe we have 
appropriately prioritized those needs, taking a comprehensive approach 
to ensuring the safety and security of not only Members of Congress, 
but our staff, visitors, and the constituents we serve.
  We provide resources and make structural changes that will address 
security concerns both here at the Capitol and in our home districts, 
including $29 million in new resources to the Capitol Police for 
increased security, $5 million to the House Sergeant at Arms for 
district office security, and support for House Administration's 
authorization to increase $25,000 per MRA account to address Members' 
physical security when they are away from the Capitol complex. We also 
invest new resources in cybersecurity measures to protect attacks on 
our digital information.
  After more than 20 hearings, briefings, and tours of various portions 
of the Capitol complex since January, we have included $581 million in 
total for the Architect of the Capitol. We recognize the continuing 
challenge of preserving and maintaining our infrastructure and 
prioritizing critical projects in the current fiscal climate.
  We have included funding to restore and renovate House office 
buildings, upgrade the Capitol Power Plant, and several other projects. 
We fund a Revitalization Fund to finance major repairs and renovations 
to facilities in the House for future years, and we are planning ahead 
to try and save costs.
  Overall, we provided $648 million for the Library of Congress, with 
new funding going to IT improvements library-wide, as well as specific 
copyright modernization initiatives.
  In total, we provided $48.5 million for the CBO. Members of this body 
on both sides of the aisle have their differences in opinion with CBO 
estimates and how it arrives at those conclusions. In some cases, 
frankly, the CBO is wrong, but, at the end of the day, it serves an 
important purpose and needs the appropriate resources to do its job.
  We also increased funding for the Government Accountability Office to 
ensure that they root out fraud, waste, and abuse in government.
  Mr. Chair, in crafting this project, Ranking Member Ryan and I sought 
the thoughtful feedback of Members throughout this committee and this 
body. There are various initiatives we can all be proud of, initiatives 
that serve our constituents and produce efficiencies and transparency 
in the way that Congress operates, including increasing openness and 
transparency and producing efficiencies by publishing nonconfidential 
CRS reports online, expanding the Wounded Warrior Project, which helps 
Members hire veterans. We increased total slots by more than 57 
percent.
  In conclusion, in all, this bill represents a frugal approach at 
funding the basic operations of Congress. We do so in a fiscally 
responsible manner, keeping House budgets historically low and 
prohibiting pay increases in Congress. We are improving transparency 
and accountability at the same time.

  I would like to thank Ranking Member Ryan and his staff, Anne Sokolov 
and Adam Berg, as well as my staff, Tim Monahan, Liz Dawson, Jenny 
Panone, and Joe Eannello, and to all the members of the subcommittee 
for their work and participation in the process this year.
  Mr. Chair, I urge this body support this legislation.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from 
Maryland (Mr. Hoyer), the Democratic whip.
  Mr. HOYER. Mr. Chairman, I served actively on the Appropriations 
Committee for 23 years. I am still a member on leave. Never, in the 36 
years that I have been here, have I seen an omnibus appropriation bill 
or a minibus appropriation bill brought to the floor before the August 
break.
  Regular order is to bring each bill to the floor, debate each bill on 
its merit, have the opportunity to offer amendments, and debate the 
merits of the amendments and of that particular bill. However, the 
majority party has not done its job, and I do not hold accountable the 
members of the Appropriations Committee. I want to make that clear.
  But, for whatever reasons, regular order has not been followed, and 
so each Member of the Congress of the United States is confronted with 
either voting for all of the bill with component parts, the Legislative 
bill, Energy and Water, MILCON-VA, Defense bill, that they may not 
like, but if they vote ``no,'' they will be accused of being against 
the security of the United States. That, my friends, is baloney.
  In their pledge to America, Republicans said: ``We will advance major 
legislation one issue at a time.''
  This belies that representation. The sponsors of this minibus 
package, Mr. Chair, claim it will make America more secure. I reject 
that argument.
  Senior military leaders have said that the greatest long-term threat 
to our national security is the growing national debt and the impact of 
interest payments on the debt as they crowd out our ability to invest 
in defense and domestic priorities.

                              {time}  1615

  It is incumbent upon us, Mr. Chairman, to work together to pass a 
fiscally responsible budget agreement that lifts the sequester caps in 
a way consistent with the principle of parity between defense and 
nondefense spending.
  Mr. Chairman, we were supposed to pass a budget on or before April 
15. It is now July 26. We have passed no budget. There is no plan for 
overall spending. This, therefore, is a pig in a poke, and nobody on 
this House floor or in this country knows the ramifications of the 
passage of this bill on the eight domestic spending bills that remain 
unattended.
  The Acting CHAIR. The time of the gentleman has expired.
  Mrs. LOWEY. I yield an additional 2 minutes to the gentleman.
  Mr. HOYER. It is incumbent upon us, Mr. Chairman, to work together to 
pass a fiscally responsible budget agreement that lifts the sequester 
caps. We cannot simply skip to appropriations without determining what 
our budget priorities are first. It is as critical for our national 
defense as it is for our ability to support economic growth.
  Moreover, this is the earliest, as I have said before, that I can 
ever remember that the House considered either an omnibus or minibus 
appropriations bill. It is an acknowledgement by the majority that the 
House will not be able to move these bills through under regular order, 
given Republicans' internal divisions over spending bills. So instead 
of working with Democrats to craft individual appropriations bills that 
can pass the House, they are resorting to legislative tactics to push 
them through on partisan votes.
  I will remind my friends across the aisle that they have been unable 
to enact a single funding bill in the past 7 years without ultimately 
appealing to Democratic votes. So I urge my colleagues to reject this 
minibus package and make it clear that we first ought to negotiate a 
budget agreement that provides certainty and clarity to the entire 
Federal Government, not just a handful of agencies. And we ought to do 
it through an open and transparent process, with Members permitted to 
offer amendments that can shape a budget and appropriations bills truly 
reflective of the Nation's priority as a whole.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' so that we can get 
on with an appropriations process that is in regular order, that makes 
common sense, that is transparent, and that will give the American 
public the best product that we can produce.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chairman, I am pleased to yield 3 minutes to 
the gentleman from California (Mr. Calvert), the chairman of the 
Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Subcommittee on 
Appropriations.

[[Page H6366]]

  

  Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support of H.R. 3219, the 
Make America Secure Appropriations Act.
  First, I would like to commend Chairman Frelinghuysen for his 
tireless work to report out all 12 appropriations bills in the 
Appropriations Committee. He did it in record time and deserves a great 
deal of credit for getting us to this point today. The four bills 
included in H.R. 3219 reflect hours of hearings, staff work, Member 
input, and bipartisan cooperation.
  I would also like to express my gratitude to the chairs and ranking 
members of the Defense; Energy and Water Development, and Related 
Agencies; Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related 
Agencies; and Legislative Branch Subcommittees.
  In particular, the Energy and Water division provides robust funding 
for water infrastructure--over $67 million--to create needed water 
storage in the West. I want to thank Chairman Simpson and his staff for 
their hard work.
  As a member of the Defense Subcommittee on Appropriations, I thank 
Chairwoman Kay Granger for her leadership and her unwavering support of 
our men and women in uniform.
  I also would be remiss if I did not mention the professional staff of 
the subcommittee, who dedicated countless hours to craft a bill that 
meets the needs of the Department of Defense and reflects the will of 
Congress.
  Our greatest responsibility as Members of Congress is to provide for 
the resources necessary to the men and women of our Armed Forces. This 
bill includes $584.2 billion in base defense funding and $73.9 billion 
for overseas contingency operations. It provides for a 2.4 percent 
military pay raise and additional funding to increase end strength.
  The bill provides robust funding for shipbuilding, aviation, combat 
vehicles, and more. It invests in our greatest assets, the men and 
women who wear the uniform, through increased funds through training, 
equipment, and the best healthcare.
  We are at a crossroads. Right now, our military continues to operate 
at high tempo to carry out the national security interests of the 
United States. However, in order to meet the next challenge, whatever 
that may be, we must invest now. We know the situation we are in.
  National Security Advisor McMaster has stated that the U.S. is 
outranged and outgunned by potential adversaries. Out of the 58 brigade 
combat teams, the Army only has 3 that are combat ready.
  We have the lowest number of ships since World War I. And while 
capability is important, the vast oceans of the world desperately need 
our presence.
  Only 7 out of 10 aircraft in the Air Force are ready to fly, and the 
average age of aircraft across the service is 27 years. Airmen are 
flying the same planes as their grandfathers.
  Only 43 percent of the Marine Corps total aircraft inventory is 
considered flyable. Our marines deserve better.
  Today we have a chance to correct the course we have been on for the 
last 8 years. The U.S. Constitution creates a government of the people 
to ``establish justice, insure domestic tranquility, provide for the 
common defense.'' This bill fulfills the promise enshrined in our 
Constitution to secure the blessings of liberty by providing for the 
defense of our Nation.

  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I am delighted to yield 6 minutes to the 
gentlewoman from Florida (Ms. Wasserman Schultz), the ranking member of 
the Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and 
Related Agencies.
  Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Chairman, I thank the distinguished 
ranking member for yielding me time and for her hard work during this 
arduous process. And I would also like to thank Chairman Frelinghuysen 
and Chairman Dent for their hard work as well.
  As we all know, the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and 
Related Agencies bill has a strong reputation for common ground and 
bipartisanship. Chairman Dent, like always, set a cooperative tone and 
was inclusive throughout this process. He has worked tirelessly to 
address many Members' concerns, and I joined him in that effort, as 
well as critical issues impacting our veterans and Active and Reserve 
servicemembers.
  The Military Construction portion of this minibus provides adequate 
funding for both the Active and Reserve components. In addition, the 
bill funds the NATO Security Investment Program at the FY17 level, 
sending a strong message to our Nation's allies that we stand with them 
as we continue to face evolving international threats.
  For the Department of Veterans Affairs, this bill provides $3.9 
billion, which is a 5.3 percent increase over FY 2017.
  I am also pleased that this bill will address the issue of breast 
cancer awareness and prevention and provides almost $700 million for 
medical research, which will fund essential efforts, such as those to 
address TBI and PTSD, develop state-of-the-art prosthetics, care for 
victims of military sexual trauma, and treat veterans suffering from 
mental illness.
  The bill also continues to fund important programs to combat veteran 
homelessness, provide our vets with effective and timely healthcare, 
and improve the veteran benefits application process and appeals 
process.
  I am also extremely grateful for Chairman Dent's support for in vitro 
fertilization and coverage for assisted reproductive technologies for 
veterans who have sustained a service-connected injury that impacts 
their fertility. This issue is very important to me and to so many 
servicemembers. All veterans deserve to be able to start families. 
Moreover, providing access to IVF is consistent with the VA's goals to 
support veterans and improve their quality of life.
  On a personal note, this bill will also address the issue of breast 
cancer awareness and prevention.
  This past spring, our subcommittee visited the Washington VA Medical 
Center. We learned that the VA was relying on the controversial USPSTF 
guidance for mammography in making coverage decisions.
  Last Congress, we passed a law that barred private insurers from 
making coverage decisions based on these guidelines through 2018. 
However, the moratorium did not apply, we learned in that visit to the 
VA, and so women in their forties who were veterans could be denied 
coverage for mammograms. To its credit, the VA changed its guideline 
regarding screening, and with Chairman Dent's support, language is 
included to hold the VA to this better standard.
  As I stated during my testimony before the Rules Committee, Mr. 
Chairman, it is my sincere belief that if the MILCON-VA bill were being 
considered as a stand-alone, as is tradition, under an open rule, it 
would receive strong bipartisan support. But, unfortunately, that is 
not what we are doing here today.
  Instead of following regular order, we, instead, are taking up four 
bills at once and adding funds to begin construction on President 
Trump's irresponsible border wall that he promised Mexico would pay 
for, and now taxpayers are being stuck with the bill. This fiscally and 
morally irresponsible expenditure leaves the nondefense appropriations 
bills grossly underfunded.
  Furthermore, contrary to popular belief, this bill isn't even great 
for defense. All this talk about making sure that we provide adequate 
resources for our defense and our national security ignores the fact 
that the Budget Control Act provides additional funds that would 
ultimately be sequestered without a cap adjustment. This minibus would 
breach this cap by more than $72 billion, resulting in a mandatory 13.2 
percent sequester of all defense accounts, including the Military 
Construction title.
  And, by the way, I have said this repeatedly each time I have spoken 
on this legislation, and never once has anyone in the majority 
countered what I am suggesting. That is deeply troubling.
  So even if this bill is signed into law, which it will not be, DOD 
would not receive one dollar of this increase.
  Secretary Mattis testified ``sequestration and the continued use of 
continuing resolutions would result in a steady erosion of military 
readiness.'' That is the only outcome this bill guarantees. By taking 
up this minibus today, we are setting ourselves up for failure, and we 
have set ourselves up

[[Page H6367]]

for an early fall with no real progress to be made on the FY 2018 
appropriations bills.
  Mr. Chairman, we cannot continue to govern in this fashion. I believe 
it is time that we stop listening to the most extreme voices and get 
past these unrealistic beliefs that we can cut our way to prosperity. 
We cannot. If this failed philosophy persists, our work will only get 
more difficult.
  It is clear that passing any appropriations bill that will be signed 
into law will require a bipartisan majority of both Houses. As a result 
of this irresponsible posture, I will sadly be voting against the 
minibus, and I look forward to working towards an appropriations 
product that both parties can work on together in true bipartisan 
tradition.
  Mr. Chairman, lastly, before I close, I thank our staff in the 
MILCON-VA bill on both the majority and the minority side: Maureen 
Holohan, Sarah Young, Sue Quantius, Sean Snyder, and Tracey Russell 
with the majority; and Matt Washington, Rosalyn Kumar, and Jonathan 
Steinberg with the minority.

  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chairman, I am pleased to yield 2 minutes to 
the gentleman from Mississippi (Mr. Palazzo), a valuable member of the 
committee.
  Mr. PALAZZO. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support of the Make 
America Secure Appropriations Act.
  As a member of the Appropriations Committee, I have witnessed 
firsthand the hard work that Chairman Frelinghuysen and his 
subcommittee chairmen have put into crafting this bill. They all should 
be congratulated for their work on this legislation, and so should 
their staffs.
  I firmly believe that the number one constitutional responsibility of 
Congress is to provide for the common defense of this Nation against 
all enemies, both domestic and foreign. That commitment, by increasing 
defense funding and restoring the cuts and budget shortfalls that 
threaten our military readiness and our ability to project force around 
the globe, is honored here today.
  Our bill also honors those who serve our country in the Armed Forces 
by giving them a much-deserved 2.4 percent pay raise and making 
critical investments in equipment and training that help them perform 
the missions we give them and, most importantly, help them return home 
safely to their loved ones and their families and communities. This 
includes 11 Navy ships, including two destroyers for our Navy and a new 
LHA for our Marines. And I am proud to say that some of these ships 
will be built in my district by the greatest shipbuilders on Earth.
  The bill also honors the service of our veterans. Our commitment 
doesn't stop when our men and women in uniform stop serving. We must 
continue to support them after they leave service, and this bill does 
just that, funding mental healthcare, care for our homeless veterans, 
and other national priorities.
  In addition, this bill makes critical investments in our Nation's 
border security, including fully funding the President's request for a 
physical barrier construction along our southern border. The President 
has promised this funding, the American people want this funding, and 
today the House is making good on that promise--after all, border 
security is national security.
  Mr. Chairman, this is a solid bill. It honors our commitments, it 
keeps Americans safe and fulfills our obligation to all those who serve 
this great country.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to support the underlying 
legislation.

                              {time}  1630

  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield 6 minutes to the gentleman from 
Indiana (Mr. Visclosky), the ranking member of the Subcommittee on 
Defense.
  (Mr. VISCLOSKY asked and was given permission to revise and extend 
his remarks.)
  Mr. VISCLOSKY. Mr. Chairman, I thank the ranking member for yielding 
to me.
  Mr. Chairman, I, first of all, thank Chairwoman Granger. This is her 
first time leading the Defense Appropriations bill on the floor. She 
has done so under very difficult circumstances, with a steadfast 
commitment to maintaining the tradition of cooperative bipartisanship 
on our subcommittee, maintaining transparency, and taking a thoughtful 
approach to solving problems.
  Mr. Chairman, I would also like to express my immense gratitude to 
Chairman Frelinghuysen, Ranking Member Lowey, the members of our 
subcommittee, and our exceptional staff for all of their hard work.
  Mr. Chairman, we have a duty to provide predictable and timely 
appropriations to the Department of Defense and the rest of the Federal 
Government. This is a consistent request by our senior Defense leaders. 
However, the House bills exceed the cap of fiscal year 2018 defense 
spending established under the Budget Control Act of 2011 by $72.5 
billion.
  If enacted as written and the budget control caps remain in place, 
the Department of Defense would face a sequestration of roughly 13 
percent. The Department has still not recovered from the rash of 
problems caused the last time it was forced to deal with sequestration 
in 2013. In the second half of that fiscal year, the Department savaged 
its operations and maintenance accounts to continue ongoing contingency 
operations and to protect military personnel accounts. This resulted in 
the Navy idling an aircraft carrier at a pier in Norfolk, the Army 
canceling training rotations, and the Air Force reducing flight times 
for its combat aircraft, and widespread civilian furloughs. We simply 
cannot allow that to happen again in fiscal year 2018.
  We have avoided sequestration in the last 4 fiscal years by adjusting 
the budget caps for both defense and nondefense appropriations. Those 
modest adjustments, done in a bipartisan and bicameral fashion, 
provided needed funding for our military, but also for our country's 
economic and physical infrastructure, scientific research, public 
health systems, and veterans' care.
  Besides my frustration with the process, I have concerns about the 
significant increase in funding that this bill will provide to the 
Department: $60 billion more than last year and $29 billion more than 
requested by the administration.
  I support providing additional funds to the Department, as I believe 
we are asking too much of our brave servicemembers and their families, 
but, putting it mildly, the world is also an unsettled place and not 
trending towards stability. But that being said, I believe that the 
Department will have great difficulty spending so many additional 
dollars in a timely and efficient manner.
  Vacancies continue in important leadership positions. Hiring 
restrictions on civilian employees and a handful of ongoing strategic 
reviews will all slow the decisionmaking process. It is also unlikely 
that Congress will complete its work in a timely manner by October 1, 
and that any dollars provided will have to be spent in a compressed 
time period.
  Additionally, I am not convinced that the administration evaluates 
dollars being spent on the military with the same criteria as it does 
with the rest of the Federal Government.
  In the Office of Management and Budget's Major Savings and Reform 
document for fiscal year 2018, it was a page-turner. With 150 proposals 
to allegedly save billions in discretionary programs, there was only 
one recommendation in 150--one--for the Department of Defense, with a 
potential to save only $2 billion by 2027. With a budget of roughly 
$600 billion a year, representing nearly half the discretionary 
spending, it is beyond the pale that OMB could only come up with a 
single savings point for the Department of Defense.
  One final point is that I am highly disappointed that the Republican 
leadership has watered down language during committee markup regarding 
the Authorization for Use of Military Force. Representative Barbara 
Lee's language would have established an eminently reasonable approach 
to updating 2001 legislation in authorization.
  Congress must stop hiding from the debate, and carry out its 
constitutional responsibilities to support our troops in uniform and 
the civilian support staff that helps them out.
  Mr. Chairman, in closing, I would like, again, simply to reiterate my 
thanks to the members of our subcommittee and committee, and for our 
sterling staff who have done a superb job under the most difficult 
circumstances that I could imagine.

[[Page H6368]]

  

  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from New Jersey (Mr. Lance), a strong supporter of national defense.
  Mr. LANCE. Mr. Chairman, I thank Chairman Frelinghuysen for yielding 
to me, and I thank him for his tremendous leadership as chairman of the 
Appropriations Committee. New Jersey and, indeed, the entire Nation are 
fortunate to have Mr. Frelinghuysen as chairman of this critical 
committee.
  Under the chairman's leadership, all spending bills have advanced out 
of the committee, and now, today, we consider a package that affirms 
one of Congress' most important responsibilities: to provide for the 
common defense.
  Included in this legislative package is an important measure that 
opens reports by the Congressional Research Service and opens those 
reports to the public. I have been involved in this issue for some 
time. Mr. Chairman, I thank Chairman Frelinghuysen and subcommittee 
Chairman Yoder for their support of this measure.
  American taxpayers spend more than $100 million a year supporting the 
work of the Congressional Research Service. Their findings, reports, 
and analyses should be public information. It is good public policy to 
allow educators, students, members of the news media, and everyday 
citizens across the Nation to have access to CRS's nonpartisan, 
taxpayer-funded reports.

  By providing public access to CRS reports, we can elevate our 
national discourse and make it easier for citizens to cut through the 
misinformation that is too often involved in the national debate. 
Citizens should have full access to the same neutral, unbiased 
information that many of us in Congress use to help us make important 
decisions.
  CRS is governed by requirements for accuracy, objectivity, balance, 
and nonpartisanship--the very sort of analysis sought and valued by 
engaged constituents.
  Mr. Chairman, I, again, commend the chairman for including this 
measure in the Legislative Branch title. This is one of many victories 
for taxpayers in this important bill.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
Connecticut (Ms. DeLauro), the ranking member of the Subcommittee on 
Labor, HHS.
  Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to this bill.
  What does this bill do?
  It would force the Office of Management and Budget to issue an 
across-the-board budget cut for defense spending come January.
  Why?
  Because the House appropriations bills exceed the defense budget 
spending cap by more than $72 billion. I might add that both Democrats 
and Republicans voted for these spending caps for defense spending and 
for nondefense spending.
  So the defense funding in the bill, their numbers are, in essence, 
fake. These are fake numbers. Republicans have no plan to raise both 
our need to support our national security and military readiness and 
our need to support hardworking middle class families who are 
struggling to get by.
  So if these bills are enacted, the only way to avoid this across-the-
board defense spending cut is if we had another budget deal to revise 
the bipartisan Budget Control Act, which established spending caps for 
defense spending and for nondefense spending.
  Now, add to that, since military pay is usually exempt from budget 
cuts, if this bill and the other House appropriations bills are signed 
into law, the Office of Management and Budget, by law, would be 
required to cut defense spending by more than 13 percent, or $72 
billion. We would need a new budget agreement so that we can increase 
both defense spending and nondefense spending to meet the needs of our 
country.
  My friends, this is not going to happen; hardly likely.
  The biggest economic challenge of our time is that too many people 
are in jobs that do not pay them enough to live on. We must invest in 
programs that provide opportunities for hardworking Americans to be 
able to improve themselves and for our economy to grow. We need a 
country that works for the middle class and for the vulnerable, not 
just the wealthy and those with the most lobbyists.
  This budget process is irresponsible, and our military and our 
hardworking families will all be shortchanged. This is unacceptable.
  Congress needs to negotiate another budget deal that increases both 
the defense and the nondefense spending caps. The spending levels in 
the Defense bill are impossible to achieve unless there is a new budget 
deal and it is reached.
  So, again, the numbers are fake. If you vote ``yes'' on this, you are 
voting for a pig in a poke. I urge my colleagues to vote against this 
bill.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chairman, I yield 4 minutes to the gentleman 
from Idaho (Mr. Simpson) for the purpose of a colloquy.
  Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Chairman, I yield to the gentleman from Alaska (Mr. 
Young) for the purpose of a colloquy.
  Mr. YOUNG of Alaska. Mr. Chairman, I thank both Chairman Simpson and 
Chairman Frelinghuysen for their work on this legislation, but I would 
like to engage in this colloquy about the Denali Commission in Alaska.
  My proposal would have restored funding for the Denali Commission to 
its fiscal year 2017 level to continue the great work that it does to 
support the constituents of the rural areas of Alaska. My proposal 
would also restore the 2017 funding levels for the Appalachian Regional 
Commission, the Delta Regional Authority, and the Northern Border 
Regional Commission.
  The Denali Commission started in 1998 with Senator Stevens as an 
independent Federal agency designed to provide critical utilities, 
infrastructure, and economic support throughout Alaska. With the 
creation of the Denali Commission, Congress acknowledged the need for 
increased interagency cooperation and a focus on Alaska's remote 
communities.
  The Denali Commission operates in the most geographically diverse and 
challenging area in America, twice the size of Texas. In fact, this 
area would encompass both the Delta Regional Authority and the 
Appalachian Regional Commission. I continue to believe the Denali 
Commission is a model of efficient and innovative government. The 
Commission has also improved the living conditions of rural areas of 
Alaska.
  Mr. Chairman, Mr. Simpson has done the best he can, and you cannot 
believe all the programs that the Denali Commission provides for the 
State of Alaska and my constituents. I would appreciate Mr. Simpson 
looking at maybe a future time that we could fund it at the level that 
we were in 2017.
  Mr. Chairman, I do urge Mr. Simpson, as the chairman, to understand 
how important the Denali Commission is to Alaska.
  Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Chairman, reclaiming my time, I appreciate my 
colleague's statement on the Denali Commission. He is a strong advocate 
for Alaska and the important work that the Denali Commission conducts 
in the State.
  The House mark this year supports the Denali Commission and its 
efforts rather than the administration's request to terminate the 
agency.
  The elimination of the Denali Commission would have deprived many 
communities of essential infrastructure and economic development 
projects.
  In a time of economic change, these communities can scarcely afford 
to lose the millions of dollars in private investment leveraged by the 
Commission annually.
  In the event the subcommittee receives additional funding in 
conference, I would be happy to work with my colleague to ensure the 
Denali Commission is provided sufficient funds to support their efforts 
in his State.
  Mr. YOUNG of Alaska. Will the gentleman yield?
  Mr. SIMPSON. I yield to the gentleman.
  Mr. YOUNG of Alaska. Mr. Chairman, I appreciate the fact that Mr. 
Simpson just mentioned it was eliminated by the administration, and he 
did restore some of the money. I am just requesting that, if he gets 
any more money, we would look for it in the Denali Commission so that 
the work it has done is well rewarded.
  Mr. Chairman, I thank both the chairmen for the work they have done 
establishing the Denali Commission in past years, and let's go forth.
  Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Chairman, I look forward to working with the 
gentleman from Alaska.

[[Page H6369]]

  


                              {time}  1645

  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I am delighted to yield 3 minutes to the 
distinguished gentleman from Washington (Mr. Kilmer), the distinguished 
vice ranking member of the committee.
  Mr. KILMER. Mr. Chair, I want to thank the chairman and our ranking 
member. I have great respect for both of them.
  Mr. Chair, the most important responsibility we have is to keep our 
Nation and our citizens safe. In order to fulfill that responsibility, 
we have a commitment to those who serve, that they will have the 
training and equipment and support that they need to be the most 
capable fighting force the world has ever seen.
  We also have a commitment to the men and women who serve that we will 
have their back, not only when they are on duty, but when they come 
home.
  This Congress should support a pay raise for our Nation's troops. 
This Congress should support a cutting-edge Naval fleet. This Congress 
should make sure that we can say that every veteran will get the care 
that he or she has earned.
  But this Congress should also be opposed to a bill that puts the 
Department of Defense right in the path of the across-the-board 
spending cuts known as sequestration.
  Now, I admit, I had not heard of sequestration until I first ran for 
this job. It turns out it is a Latin word for stupid, because when you 
face our military leaders, even in my district, they have implored this 
Congress to do away with the bind that sequestration threatens to put 
them in. They think this is a bad idea.
  But what we are doing this week ignores the advice of our top 
commanders and our military experts. Instead, it would put the 
Department of Defense on a collision course with sequestration. That 
would mean harmful cuts, across-the-board cuts to our military, 
regardless of priority.
  The failure of this Congress to pass a legitimate budget is a 
disservice to our Armed Forces and to every man and woman who serves in 
it. We should be giving those in uniform certainty that their paychecks 
will arrive on time, that their gear will be the best, that they will 
get the training that they need, and that cuts won't hurt their 
readiness.
  So let's get serious about a budget. Let's vote down this bill and do 
better. Pass a responsible bill.
  Listen, a majority of the Members in this Chamber are willing to 
support a plan that not only funds our military, but also makes sure we 
don't approach yet another government shutdown. That is what the 
American people sent us here to do, Mr. Chair. Let's listen to their 
voices.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chairman, I am pleased to yield 4 minutes to 
the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Smith), the distinguished chairman of the 
Science, Space, and Technology Committee.
  Mr. SMITH of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I thank the chairman of the 
Appropriations Committee for yielding me time.
  I am very pleased to support H.R. 3219, the Make America Secure 
Appropriations Act of 2018, especially because it includes H.R. 3266, 
which provides appropriations for the energy programs within the 
Science, Space, and Technology Committee's jurisdiction.
  Chairman Simpson, who is on the floor behind me, has worked closely 
with us on the Science, Space, and Technology Committee to include 
responsible, pro-science funding levels for the Department of Energy.
  Chairman Simpson, your leadership and cooperation have been 
exceptional and are much appreciated. Thank you for your leadership in 
passing this legislation that sets America on a path to remain the 
world's leader in innovation.
  The appropriations included in this legislation are consistent with 
the America COMPETES Reauthorization Act, which passed the House last 
Congress. This bill also funds programs authorized in H.R. 589, the DOE 
Research and Innovation Act, which passed the House earlier this year 
and was the product of over 3 years of work by the Science, Space, and 
Technology Committee to advance basic research and set clear science 
priorities for the Department of Energy.
  American industry relies on Federal support for basic research to 
produce the scientific breakthroughs that fuel technological 
innovation, new industries, economic growth, and good jobs.
  Around the country, scientists at our National Labs and universities 
are conducting groundbreaking, basic science research that provides the 
foundation for next generation technology in energy, medicine, and 
manufacturing.
  This legislation provides strong support for the Department of 
Energy's Office of Science at $5.4 billion for fiscal year 2018. The 
Office of Science will get increased funding for research in basic 
energy sciences, high-performance computing, nuclear physics, high-
energy physics, and fusion energy.
  The strong support for the Office of Science in the appropriations 
bill will prioritize the basic research programs that are the core 
mission of the Department and the National Labs and lead to scientific 
discoveries that can provide benefits across the economy.
  This legislation also includes responsible funding for DOE's applied 
programs, prioritizing early-stage research in electricity, energy 
efficiency, renewables, fossil, and nuclear.
  An example of such critical early-stage energy research involves 
nuclear energy where the bill's funding supports the priorities 
outlined in the Nuclear Energy Innovation Capabilities Act, which 
passed the House as a part of H.R. 589. That legislation, sponsored by 
Energy Subcommittee Chairman Randy Weber of Texas, combines the 
strengths of the National Labs, universities, and the private sector to 
develop advanced nuclear technology. This technology is our best 
opportunity to provide reliable, emission-free electricity.
  The Acting CHAIR. The time of the gentleman has expired.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chairman, I yield the gentleman an additional 
1 minute.

  Mr. SMITH of Texas. I thank the chairman of the committee for 
yielding me an additional minute.
  This appropriations bill also includes funding to begin design and 
construction for the research reactor authorized in H.R. 589, which 
will provide access to the fast neutrons necessary to enable the next 
generation of nuclear energy technology.
  As we shape the future of the Department of Energy, our priority must 
be basic and early-stage research that only the Federal Government has 
the incentives and resources to support and pursue. This will empower 
private sector innovators to develop and demonstrate resulting new 
capabilities that will attract the capital investments needed to take 
energy technology to the marketplace, creating jobs and expanding our 
economy.
  Mr. Chairman, I strongly encourage my colleagues to support this pro-
science bill, pro-energy appropriations bill.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I am very pleased to yield 5 minutes to the 
gentleman from Texas (Mr. Cuellar).
  Mr. CUELLAR. Mr. Chairman, I thank the ranking member for yielding.
  I also want to thank the Appropriations chair from New Jersey and the 
staff, and also the ranking young lady from New York and the staff for 
being a bipartisan committee. The Appropriations Committee has been 
bipartisan.
  While this bill before us is a step toward getting the job done of 
passing the appropriations bill before the end of the fiscal year, we 
know this is only the first step. We still have a lot more work to do.
  I regret that the rule that we will take up tomorrow will likely 
include $1.6 billion for a wall. We who live on the border, we 
understand and we believe in border security, border security that is 
strong, sensible, common sense, and effective for the border. The wall 
is a 14th century solution to a 21st century challenge that we have.
  The border wall is not the right solution for border security. Why?
  Number one, private property rights. We believe in private property 
rights. In fact, there are some people that, for generations, have 
owned land along the border. I have several veterans that own land. In 
fact, there is one veteran in particular that buried his father--his 
father who served in World War II--and his family right along the 
riverbank. So if you put a wall, what is he going to do? Once you put 
the wall, how is he going to go visit the cemetery, the family cemetery 
along the border?

[[Page H6370]]

  What about cattle, livestock? How are they going to have access to 
water along the river?
  Number two, we have natural barriers along the Texas border. We have 
the rivers. You can see how the river snakes around. And what about the 
cliffs? Are you going to put a wall on top of this cliff? It just 
doesn't make sense.
  Number three, what about taxpayers' dollars? Mexico is not going to 
pay for this wall. We know that the American taxpayer is going to pay 
for this, $1.6 billion for 74 miles out of the 1,954 miles that we 
have. That is $21.2 million per mile for this wall, compared to $1 
million of technology we wanted to put, technology cameras, sensors, 
aerostats for border security.
  And, oh, by the way, so $1.6 billion; all I need is $100, buy myself 
a good ladder, and we will take care of that wall. So, again, we have 
got to be smart about border security.
  Number four, environmental concerns, we have concerns with regard to 
wildlife refuges.
  What about the 40 percent out of the 11 million people that we have 
here who did visa overstays?
  So you can put the biggest wall, but people are going to fly, are 
going to drive across the bridge, are going to get a boat into Houston 
and just stay over their time.
  What about a cap analysis so we know what are the real needs that we 
have? That is number six.
  What about number seven, Mexico is an ally? It is not an enemy. Every 
day we have $1.3 billion of trade with our friends to the south--every 
day, 1.3. That is over $1 million of trade every single minute, 6 
million American jobs that we have because of the trade that we have 
with our friends to the south.
  We need strong, commonsense border security, and I know this because 
I live on the border. I drink the water. I breathe the air. I 
understand this very well.
  The border area is very safe. Use FBI stats. The murder rate in my 
hometown of Laredo is three murders per 100,000. Here in Washington, 
D.C., it is 24.5 murders per 100,000. So if you want to talk about 
dangerous, when I leave the border to fly over to Washington, this is 
the most dangerous thing about my job.
  So the wall is a 14th century solution to a 21st century problem. I 
ask you to vote ``no'' on the border wall.
  Again, I want to thank the Appropriations Committee for being 
bipartisan. This is only the first step.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chairman, I am pleased to yield 2 minutes to 
the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Weber).
  Mr. WEBER of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support of the Make 
America Secure Appropriations Act of 2018. I am particularly pleased to 
support language from H.R. 3266, which provides appropriations for 
energy programs within the Science, Space, and Technology Committee's 
jurisdiction.
  For years, the Energy Subcommittee, which I chair, has listened to 
experts and gathered data to determine appropriate priorities for the 
DOE. The bill brought before the House floor reflects the findings of 
the committee. It funds basic and early-stage research, and it does so 
all the while reducing spending.
  Importantly, this bill includes specific appropriations for programs 
authorized in my bill, the Nuclear Energy Innovation Capabilities Act, 
which establishes a clear timeline and parameters for DOE to complete a 
research reactor. This type of research requires access to fast 
neutrons currently only available in Russia.

  The completion of our own research reactor is crucial, Mr. Chairman, 
in ensuring materials and nuclear fuels R&D takes place in these United 
States of America. The versatile neutron source, or fast test reactor, 
authorized in my legislation will provide the United States with this 
vital capability.
  I want to thank Chairman Frelinghuysen for specifically including $35 
million in funding, and Chairman Simpson, to begin the design and 
construction of vital research infrastructure in this appropriations 
bill.
  America must maintain our nuclear capabilities and continue to 
develop cutting-edge technology here at home. This bill provides 
direction and robust funding for early-stage nuclear energy research. 
Without it, we will fall behind.
  It is vital that we ensure this important research and development is 
fully funded. We cannot afford to miss the economic opportunities 
provided by next generation nuclear technology. I encourage my 
colleagues to support this pro-science, fiscally responsible 
legislation.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I am very pleased to yield 2 minutes to the 
gentleman from Texas (Mr. Gene Green).
  Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I want to thank our ranking 
member for yielding to me.
  I rise in opposition to funding for President Trump's border wall. I 
have visited the border of Texas and Mexico many times. Communities all 
along and beyond the border in my home State of Texas are opposed to 
this border wall.
  Texas has deep and historic ties with our neighbor to the south, 
Mexico. The people of Texas and Mexico share a pride. A clear majority 
of our communities believe that the close ties between Texas and 
Mexico--cultural, economic, linguistic--benefit both Texas and Mexico.
  The construction of this ``big, fat, beautiful wall,'' to quote 
President Trump, along a 2,000-mile-long U.S.-Mexico border is not only 
unnecessary, but would be harmful to our border communities and 
wildlife and natural habitats along the border, and become a symbol of 
spite and division toward Mexico and its people.

                              {time}  1700

  Much of the border between the United States and Mexico is already 
separated by the Rio Grande River, a clear natural obstacle between the 
two countries. High traffic areas along our Southern border are further 
separated by over 650 miles of pedestrian and vehicle fencing currently 
on the border.
  Congress has provided the Department of Homeland Security with robust 
funding since the Department's creation to sharply increase the number 
of Border Patrol officers and surveillance tools, including aerial 
drones along the border.
  As a result of these substantial investments by the American people, 
the number of immigrants without authorization has steadily declined, 
while the number of border apprehensions are near a 40-year low.
  The $1.6 billion funded by taxpayer dollars included in this 
legislation for the President's border wall should be directed for 
genuine needs, like expanding education opportunities for our children, 
rebuilding our Nation's aging infrastructure.
  Mr. Chairman, I ask my colleagues, if given the opportunity, to amend 
the legislation before this Chamber to remove the border wall funding. 
Otherwise, I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to join me 
in opposing the minibus appropriations bill.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, in closing, I want to reiterate that this 
bill is a departure from regular order, wastes $1.6 billion on Trump's 
border wall, uses fraudulent defense numbers, guts critical investments 
in clean energy, includes poison-pill riders, leaves the remaining 
spending bills with no path forward.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to vote ``no,'' and I yield back 
the balance of my time.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chairman, before I close, I just want to take 
this opportunity to thank Mrs. Lowey for her work, and all of the staff 
here for the remarkable things they have been doing over the last 3 or 
4 weeks. While we may disagree strongly on some issues, our committee, 
as Mr. Cuellar said a few minutes ago, works in a bipartisan way to get 
our bills across the finish line.
  To all the members of the committee and our staff and to the ranking 
member, I thank them for the amicable way that all of us conduct 
business. It is part of the history and tradition of our committee.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield to the gentlewoman from New York.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I think I closed prematurely without 
thanking you for your leadership. It has been really a pleasure working 
with you. I do hope that as we move the process forward, we will be 
able to have a final product that we can all be very proud of. Thank 
you again. You have been a very delightful person to work with.
  And I thank the chairman, all my staff that has been so hardworking 
and

[[Page H6371]]

so cooperative. We couldn't do this without them on both sides of the 
aisle. I thank the chairman.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentlewoman for her 
comments.
  Mr. Chairman, reclaiming my time, in closing, I would remind the 
House that just yesterday we voted overwhelmingly in a bipartisan way 
to impose tough new sanctions on three aggressor nations: Russia, Iran 
and North Korea. Each pose their unique threats to our vital interests, 
their neighbors, and to global stability.
  But little in history would predict that sanction alone will change 
the maligned behavior of these three regimes.
  That is why we need to get this bill across the finish line, to 
guarantee that our military is always prepared to meet any threat from 
anyone anywhere, whether it be China in the Pacific; international 
terrorist groups like ISIS, al-Qaida, Al-Nusra, al Shabaab, Hezbollah, 
Hamas; and transnational drug smugglers and criminal gangs.
  Mr. Chairman, I repeat: Congress' most important constitutional duty 
is to provide for the common defense. This appropriations package 
before us allows us to meet that solid responsibility.
  I urge support of the bill, and I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. GOWDY. Mr. Chair, the unique circumstances of the Waters of the 
United States (WOTUS) rulemaking warrant an expedited repeal of the 
rule. In November 2016, the Committee released a staff report titled 
``Politicization of the Waters of the United States Rulemaking,'' 
detailing the findings of more than a year-long investigation in to the 
Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rulemaking. The investigation 
revealed widespread procedural violations, excessive unilateral and 
politically driven decision-making, and persistent failures of 
consultation and consideration of public comments.
  The EPA's extraordinary efforts to push through this procedurally 
deficient and roundly disliked rulemaking created an insurmountable 
illegitimacy of the rulemaking that warrants immediate repeal. To 
facilitate this necessary action, Congress is exercising its authority 
to create exemptions to existing law in H.R. 3219, the Make America 
Secure Appropriations Act, 2018. Section 108 of the bill provides a 
single-use exemption from regulatory procedure and legal requirements 
to allow EPA and the Secretary of the Army to immediately withdraw the 
WOTUS rule. The immediate repeal of WOTUS will allow EPA and the Army 
Corps of Engineers to start with a clean slate as they conduct a joint 
rulemaking, between equal partners, with full consideration of the 
comments and concerns raised by the American public.
  In future rulemakings, including any WOTUS replacement, Congress 
expects federal agencies to approach their mandate to consult with 
state, local, and tribal governments and give full consideration to 
public comments with a commitment to administrative procedure and 
effective rulemaking.
  Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Chair, I would like to state 
my strong objection to the Energy and Water Development Appropriations 
portion of H.R. 3219. It would completely eliminate ARPA-E, an agency 
that has already demonstrated incredible success in advancing high-
risk, high-reward energy technology solutions that neither the public 
nor the private sector had been willing or able to support in the past. 
This accomplishment was highlighted in a Congressionally mandated 
National Academies review of the agency released just last month. I 
would also note that ARPA-E recently announced that a group of 74 
project teams has attracted over $1.8 billion in private sector follow-
on funding since the agency's founding in 2009. In addition, the agency 
announced that 56 projects have formed new companies and 68 projects 
have partnered with other government agencies for further development. 
Bipartisan industry leaders like Norm Augustine and Bill Gates have 
repeatedly called for tripling this agency's budget given the unique 
role that it is now playing in our energy innovation pipeline. And I'd 
be remiss if I didn't refer my colleagues to DOE Secretary Perry's 
March 8th tweet, issued just 8 days before the Trump Administration 
proposed to eliminate the agency, which states, and I quote, 
``Innovators like the ones supported by our ARPA-E program are key to 
advancing America's energy economy.'' I couldn't have said it better 
myself.
  In addition, this bill would eliminate DOE's innovation technology 
loan guarantee program. The Committee on Science, Space, and Technology 
held a hearing on this programs a few months ago, and we learned that 
its record of accomplishment more than justifies our continued support. 
The DOE Loan Programs Office has been instrumental in launching the 
utility-scale PV industry, Tesla Motors, and the construction of our 
first new nuclear reactors in 30 years. In addition, it is now 
supporting the commercialization of new carbon capture and reuse 
technologies. Overall the Loan Office's losses are only about 2 percent 
of its entire portfolio--a rate that is lower than many venture 
capitalists achieve. And even after accounting for those losses, the 
interest payments from these loans and loan guarantees have returned 
over $1 billion to the Treasury. If we're aiming to create jobs and 
reduce the deficit, this is exactly the type of program we should be 
supporting.
  Finally, this bill makes substantial cuts to many of the Department's 
other critical energy technology offices for the grid, fossil energy, 
and nuclear energy, as well as a massive 47 percent cut to the Office 
of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy. Our national infrastructure 
for clean energy research would be irreparably harmed if these cuts 
were actually implemented.
  Now, I am not going to tell you that every program the Department 
currently implements is perfect, that reforms should never be 
considered, or that reasonable people can't simply disagree on the best 
way to allocate its resources even after a careful, rigorous review. 
One of my largest concerns now, especially given the incredibly severe 
damage that this bill would impose on our entire energy research 
enterprise, is that such a thoughtful review never actually took place.
  In closing, I hope that we can all take a step back and more 
carefully consider the direction we want to move the Department in. I 
look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle 
and in the Senate to restore federal support for these vital programs.
  Mr. YOUNG of Iowa. Mr. Chair, I wanted to briefly discuss eating 
disorders and how it affects our servicemembers and their families. 
Eating disorders affects over 30 million Americans during their 
lifetimes, and have the highest mortality rate of any psychiatric 
illness. Studies show that eating disorders affect our servicemembers 
and their families at a higher rate than the civilian population, with 
34 percent of female active duty servicemembers and 20 percent of 
children of sevicemembers scoring at risk for an eating disorder.
  Additionally, a Military Medicine study of female military members 
and veterans found significant relationships between eating disorders, 
PTSD and sexual trauma. As we have much to learn on how eating 
disorders affect our military members and their families, I would 
encourage the House to start considering how we can address this issue 
within our military.
  The Acting CHAIR (Mr. Tipton). All time for general debate has 
expired.
  Pursuant to the rule, the bill shall be considered for amendment 
under the 5-minute rule.
  An amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of 
Rules Committee Print 115-30 shall be considered as adopted and the 
bill, as amended, shall be considered as an original bill for the 
purpose of further amendment under the 5-minute rule and shall be 
considered as read.
  The text of the bill, as amended, is as follows:

                               H.R. 3219

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Defense, Military 
     Construction, Veterans Affairs, Legislative Branch, and 
     Energy and Water Development National Security Appropriations 
     Act, 2018''.

     SEC. 2. ADDITIONAL REFERENCE.

       This Act may also be referred to as the ``Make America 
     Secure Appropriations Act, 2018''.

       DIVISION A--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2018

        The following sums are appropriated, out of any money in 
     the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year 
     ending September 30, 2018, for military functions 
     administered by the Department of Defense and for other 
     purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                           MILITARY PERSONNEL

                        Military Personnel, Army

       For pay, allowances, individual clothing, subsistence, 
     interest on deposits, gratuities, permanent change of station 
     travel (including all expenses thereof for organizational 
     movements), and expenses of temporary duty travel between 
     permanent duty stations, for members of the Army on active 
     duty (except members of reserve components provided for 
     elsewhere), cadets, and aviation cadets; for members of the 
     Reserve Officers' Training Corps; and for payments pursuant 
     to section 156 of Public Law 97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C. 
     402 note), and to the Department of Defense Military 
     Retirement Fund, $41,427,054,000.

                        Military Personnel, Navy

       For pay, allowances, individual clothing, subsistence, 
     interest on deposits, gratuities, permanent change of station 
     travel (including all expenses thereof for organizational 
     movements), and expenses of temporary duty travel between 
     permanent duty stations, for members of the

[[Page H6372]]

     Navy on active duty (except members of the Reserve provided 
     for elsewhere), midshipmen, and aviation cadets; for members 
     of the Reserve Officers' Training Corps; and for payments 
     pursuant to section 156 of Public Law 97-377, as amended (42 
     U.S.C. 402 note), and to the Department of Defense Military 
     Retirement Fund, $28,707,918,000.

                    Military Personnel, Marine Corps

       For pay, allowances, individual clothing, subsistence, 
     interest on deposits, gratuities, permanent change of station 
     travel (including all expenses thereof for organizational 
     movements), and expenses of temporary duty travel between 
     permanent duty stations, for members of the Marine Corps on 
     active duty (except members of the Reserve provided for 
     elsewhere); and for payments pursuant to section 156 of 
     Public Law 97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C. 402 note), and to 
     the Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund, 
     $13,165,714,000.

                     Military Personnel, Air Force

       For pay, allowances, individual clothing, subsistence, 
     interest on deposits, gratuities, permanent change of station 
     travel (including all expenses thereof for organizational 
     movements), and expenses of temporary duty travel between 
     permanent duty stations, for members of the Air Force on 
     active duty (except members of reserve components provided 
     for elsewhere), cadets, and aviation cadets; for members of 
     the Reserve Officers' Training Corps; and for payments 
     pursuant to section 156 of Public Law 97-377, as amended (42 
     U.S.C. 402 note), and to the Department of Defense Military 
     Retirement Fund, $28,738,320,000.

                        Reserve Personnel, Army

       For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, 
     travel, and related expenses for personnel of the Army 
     Reserve on active duty under sections 10211, 10302, and 3038 
     of title 10, United States Code, or while serving on active 
     duty under section 12301(d) of title 10, United States Code, 
     in connection with performing duty specified in section 
     12310(a) of title 10, United States Code, or while undergoing 
     reserve training, or while performing drills or equivalent 
     duty or other duty, and expenses authorized by section 16131 
     of title 10, United States Code; and for payments to the 
     Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund, 
     $4,721,128,000.

                        Reserve Personnel, Navy

       For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, 
     travel, and related expenses for personnel of the Navy 
     Reserve on active duty under section 10211 of title 10, 
     United States Code, or while serving on active duty under 
     section 12301(d) of title 10, United States Code, in 
     connection with performing duty specified in section 12310(a) 
     of title 10, United States Code, or while undergoing reserve 
     training, or while performing drills or equivalent duty, and 
     expenses authorized by section 16131 of title 10, United 
     States Code; and for payments to the Department of Defense 
     Military Retirement Fund, $1,987,662,000.

                    Reserve Personnel, Marine Corps

       For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, 
     travel, and related expenses for personnel of the Marine 
     Corps Reserve on active duty under section 10211 of title 10, 
     United States Code, or while serving on active duty under 
     section 12301(d) of title 10, United States Code, in 
     connection with performing duty specified in section 12310(a) 
     of title 10, United States Code, or while undergoing reserve 
     training, or while performing drills or equivalent duty, and 
     for members of the Marine Corps platoon leaders class, and 
     expenses authorized by section 16131 of title 10, United 
     States Code; and for payments to the Department of Defense 
     Military Retirement Fund, $762,793,000.

                      Reserve Personnel, Air Force

       For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, 
     travel, and related expenses for personnel of the Air Force 
     Reserve on active duty under sections 10211, 10305, and 8038 
     of title 10, United States Code, or while serving on active 
     duty under section 12301(d) of title 10, United States Code, 
     in connection with performing duty specified in section 
     12310(a) of title 10, United States Code, or while undergoing 
     reserve training, or while performing drills or equivalent 
     duty or other duty, and expenses authorized by section 16131 
     of title 10, United States Code; and for payments to the 
     Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund, 
     $1,808,434,000.

                     National Guard Personnel, Army

       For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, 
     travel, and related expenses for personnel of the Army 
     National Guard while on duty under sections 10211, 10302, or 
     12402 of title 10 or section 708 of title 32, United States 
     Code, or while serving on duty under section 12301(d) of 
     title 10 or section 502(f) of title 32, United States Code, 
     in connection with performing duty specified in section 
     12310(a) of title 10, United States Code, or while undergoing 
     training, or while performing drills or equivalent duty or 
     other duty, and expenses authorized by section 16131 of title 
     10, United States Code; and for payments to the Department of 
     Defense Military Retirement Fund, $8,252,426,000.

                  National Guard Personnel, Air Force

       For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, 
     travel, and related expenses for personnel of the Air 
     National Guard on duty under sections 10211, 10305, or 12402 
     of title 10 or section 708 of title 32, United States Code, 
     or while serving on duty under section 12301(d) of title 10 
     or section 502(f) of title 32, United States Code, in 
     connection with performing duty specified in section 12310(a) 
     of title 10, United States Code, or while undergoing 
     training, or while performing drills or equivalent duty or 
     other duty, and expenses authorized by section 16131 of title 
     10, United States Code; and for payments to the Department of 
     Defense Military Retirement Fund, $3,406,137,000.

                                TITLE II

                       OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                    Operation and Maintenance, Army

       For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
     operation and maintenance of the Army, as authorized by law, 
     $38,483,846,000:  Provided, That not to exceed $12,478,000 
     can be used for emergencies and extraordinary expenses, to be 
     expended on the approval or authority of the Secretary of the 
     Army, and payments may be made on his certificate of 
     necessity for confidential military purposes.

                    Operation and Maintenance, Navy

       For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
     operation and maintenance of the Navy and the Marine Corps, 
     as authorized by law, $45,980,133,000:  Provided, That not to 
     exceed $15,055,000 can be used for emergencies and 
     extraordinary expenses, to be expended on the approval or 
     authority of the Secretary of the Navy, and payments may be 
     made on his certificate of necessity for confidential 
     military purposes.

                Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps

       For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
     operation and maintenance of the Marine Corps, as authorized 
     by law, $6,885,884,000.

                  Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

       For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
     operation and maintenance of the Air Force, as authorized by 
     law, $38,592,745,000:  Provided, That not to exceed 
     $7,699,000 can be used for emergencies and extraordinary 
     expenses, to be expended on the approval or authority of the 
     Secretary of the Air Force, and payments may be made on his 
     certificate of necessity for confidential military purposes.

                Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
     operation and maintenance of activities and agencies of the 
     Department of Defense (other than the military departments), 
     as authorized by law, $33,771,769,000:  Provided, That not 
     more than $15,000,000 may be used for the Combatant Commander 
     Initiative Fund authorized under section 166a of title 10, 
     United States Code:  Provided further, That not to exceed 
     $36,000,000 can be used for emergencies and extraordinary 
     expenses, to be expended on the approval or authority of the 
     Secretary of Defense, and payments may be made on his 
     certificate of necessity for confidential military purposes:  
     Provided further, That of the funds provided under this 
     heading, not less than $38,458,000 shall be made available 
     for the Procurement Technical Assistance Cooperative 
     Agreement Program, of which not less than $3,600,000 shall be 
     available for centers defined in 10 U.S.C. 2411(1)(D):  
     Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated or 
     otherwise made available by this Act may be used to plan or 
     implement the consolidation of a budget or appropriations 
     liaison office of the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the 
     office of the Secretary of a military department, or the 
     service headquarters of one of the Armed Forces into a 
     legislative affairs or legislative liaison office:  Provided 
     further, That $9,385,000, to remain available until expended, 
     is available only for expenses relating to certain classified 
     activities, and may be transferred as necessary by the 
     Secretary of Defense to operation and maintenance 
     appropriations or research, development, test and evaluation 
     appropriations, to be merged with and to be available for the 
     same time period as the appropriations to which transferred:  
     Provided further, That any ceiling on the investment item 
     unit cost of items that may be purchased with operation and 
     maintenance funds shall not apply to the funds described in 
     the preceding proviso:  Provided further, That of the funds 
     provided under this heading, $415,000,000, of which 
     $100,000,000 to remain available until September 30, 2019, 
     shall be available to provide support and assistance to 
     foreign security forces or other groups or individuals to 
     conduct, support or facilitate counterterrorism, crisis 
     response, or other Department of Defense security cooperation 
     programs:  Provided further, That the transfer authority 
     provided under this heading is in addition to any other 
     transfer authority provided elsewhere in this Act.

                Operation and Maintenance, Army Reserve

       For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
     operation and maintenance, including training, organization, 
     and administration, of the Army Reserve; repair of facilities 
     and equipment; hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and 
     transportation; care of the dead; recruiting; procurement of 
     services, supplies, and equipment; and communications, 
     $2,870,163,000.

                Operation and Maintenance, Navy Reserve

       For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
     operation and maintenance, including training, organization, 
     and administration, of the Navy Reserve; repair of facilities 
     and equipment; hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and 
     transportation; care of the dead; recruiting; procurement of 
     services, supplies, and equipment; and communications, 
     $1,038,507,000.

            Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps Reserve

       For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
     operation and maintenance, including training, organization, 
     and administration, of the Marine Corps Reserve; repair of 
     facilities and equipment; hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
     travel and transportation; care of the dead; recruiting; 
     procurement of services, supplies, and equipment; and 
     communications, $282,337,000.

[[Page H6373]]

  


              Operation and Maintenance, Air Force Reserve

       For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
     operation and maintenance, including training, organization, 
     and administration, of the Air Force Reserve; repair of 
     facilities and equipment; hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
     travel and transportation; care of the dead; recruiting; 
     procurement of services, supplies, and equipment; and 
     communications, $3,233,745,000.

             Operation and Maintenance, Army National Guard

       For expenses of training, organizing, and administering the 
     Army National Guard, including medical and hospital treatment 
     and related expenses in non-Federal hospitals; maintenance, 
     operation, and repairs to structures and facilities; hire of 
     passenger motor vehicles; personnel services in the National 
     Guard Bureau; travel expenses (other than mileage), as 
     authorized by law for Army personnel on active duty, for Army 
     National Guard division, regimental, and battalion commanders 
     while inspecting units in compliance with National Guard 
     Bureau regulations when specifically authorized by the Chief, 
     National Guard Bureau; supplying and equipping the Army 
     National Guard as authorized by law; and expenses of repair, 
     modification, maintenance, and issue of supplies and 
     equipment (including aircraft), $7,275,820,000.

             Operation and Maintenance, Air National Guard

       For expenses of training, organizing, and administering the 
     Air National Guard, including medical and hospital treatment 
     and related expenses in non-Federal hospitals; maintenance, 
     operation, and repairs to structures and facilities; 
     transportation of things, hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
     supplying and equipping the Air National Guard, as authorized 
     by law; expenses for repair, modification, maintenance, and 
     issue of supplies and equipment, including those furnished 
     from stocks under the control of agencies of the Department 
     of Defense; travel expenses (other than mileage) on the same 
     basis as authorized by law for Air National Guard personnel 
     on active Federal duty, for Air National Guard commanders 
     while inspecting units in compliance with National Guard 
     Bureau regulations when specifically authorized by the Chief, 
     National Guard Bureau, $6,735,930,000.

          United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces

       For salaries and expenses necessary for the United States 
     Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces, $14,538,000, of which 
     not to exceed $5,000 may be used for official representation 
     purposes.

                    Environmental Restoration, Army

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For the Department of the Army, $215,809,000, to remain 
     available until transferred:  Provided, That the Secretary of 
     the Army shall, upon determining that such funds are required 
     for environmental restoration, reduction and recycling of 
     hazardous waste, removal of unsafe buildings and debris of 
     the Department of the Army, or for similar purposes, transfer 
     the funds made available by this appropriation to other 
     appropriations made available to the Department of the Army, 
     to be merged with and to be available for the same purposes 
     and for the same time period as the appropriations to which 
     transferred:  Provided further, That upon a determination 
     that all or part of the funds transferred from this 
     appropriation are not necessary for the purposes provided 
     herein, such amounts may be transferred back to this 
     appropriation:  Provided further, That the transfer authority 
     provided under this heading is in addition to any other 
     transfer authority provided elsewhere in this Act.

                    Environmental Restoration, Navy

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For the Department of the Navy, $288,915,000, to remain 
     available until transferred:  Provided, That the Secretary of 
     the Navy shall, upon determining that such funds are required 
     for environmental restoration, reduction and recycling of 
     hazardous waste, removal of unsafe buildings and debris of 
     the Department of the Navy, or for similar purposes, transfer 
     the funds made available by this appropriation to other 
     appropriations made available to the Department of the Navy, 
     to be merged with and to be available for the same purposes 
     and for the same time period as the appropriations to which 
     transferred:  Provided further, That upon a determination 
     that all or part of the funds transferred from this 
     appropriation are not necessary for the purposes provided 
     herein, such amounts may be transferred back to this 
     appropriation:  Provided further, That the transfer authority 
     provided under this heading is in addition to any other 
     transfer authority provided elsewhere in this Act.

                  Environmental Restoration, Air Force

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For the Department of the Air Force, $308,749,000, to 
     remain available until transferred:  Provided, That the 
     Secretary of the Air Force shall, upon determining that such 
     funds are required for environmental restoration, reduction 
     and recycling of hazardous waste, removal of unsafe buildings 
     and debris of the Department of the Air Force, or for similar 
     purposes, transfer the funds made available by this 
     appropriation to other appropriations made available to the 
     Department of the Air Force, to be merged with and to be 
     available for the same purposes and for the same time period 
     as the appropriations to which transferred:  Provided 
     further, That upon a determination that all or part of the 
     funds transferred from this appropriation are not necessary 
     for the purposes provided herein, such amounts may be 
     transferred back to this appropriation:  Provided further, 
     That the transfer authority provided under this heading is in 
     addition to any other transfer authority provided elsewhere 
     in this Act.

                Environmental Restoration, Defense-Wide

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For the Department of Defense, $9,002,000, to remain 
     available until transferred:  Provided, That the Secretary of 
     Defense shall, upon determining that such funds are required 
     for environmental restoration, reduction and recycling of 
     hazardous waste, removal of unsafe buildings and debris of 
     the Department of Defense, or for similar purposes, transfer 
     the funds made available by this appropriation to other 
     appropriations made available to the Department of Defense, 
     to be merged with and to be available for the same purposes 
     and for the same time period as the appropriations to which 
     transferred:  Provided further, That upon a determination 
     that all or part of the funds transferred from this 
     appropriation are not necessary for the purposes provided 
     herein, such amounts may be transferred back to this 
     appropriation:  Provided further, That the transfer authority 
     provided under this heading is in addition to any other 
     transfer authority provided elsewhere in this Act.

         Environmental Restoration, Formerly Used Defense Sites

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For the Department of the Army, $233,673,000, to remain 
     available until transferred:  Provided, That the Secretary of 
     the Army shall, upon determining that such funds are required 
     for environmental restoration, reduction and recycling of 
     hazardous waste, removal of unsafe buildings and debris at 
     sites formerly used by the Department of Defense, transfer 
     the funds made available by this appropriation to other 
     appropriations made available to the Department of the Army, 
     to be merged with and to be available for the same purposes 
     and for the same time period as the appropriations to which 
     transferred:  Provided further, That upon a determination 
     that all or part of the funds transferred from this 
     appropriation are not necessary for the purposes provided 
     herein, such amounts may be transferred back to this 
     appropriation:  Provided further, That the transfer authority 
     provided under this heading is in addition to any other 
     transfer authority provided elsewhere in this Act.

             Overseas Humanitarian, Disaster, and Civic Aid

       For expenses relating to the Overseas Humanitarian, 
     Disaster, and Civic Aid programs of the Department of Defense 
     (consisting of the programs provided under sections 401, 402, 
     404, 407, 2557, and 2561 of title 10, United States Code), 
     $107,900,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018.

                  Cooperative Threat Reduction Account

       For assistance, including assistance provided by contract 
     or by grants, under programs and activities of the Department 
     of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Program authorized 
     under the Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction 
     Act, $324,600,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2019.

      Operation and Maintenance, National Defense Restoration Fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

       In addition to amounts provided elsewhere in this Act, 
     there is appropriated $5,000,000,000, for the ``Operation and 
     Maintenance, National Defense Restoration Fund'': Provided, 
     That such funds provided under this heading shall only be 
     available for programs, projects and activities necessary to 
     implement the 2018 National Defense Strategy: Provided 
     further, That such funds shall not be available for transfer 
     until 30 days after the Secretary has submitted, and the 
     congressional defense committees have approved, the proposed 
     allocation plan for the use of such funds to implement such 
     strategy: Provided further, That such allocation plan shall 
     include a detailed justification for the use of such funds 
     and a description of how such investments are necessary to 
     implement the strategy: Provided further, That the Secretary 
     of Defense may transfer these funds only to operation and 
     maintenance accounts: Provided further, That the funds 
     transferred shall be merged with and shall be available for 
     the same purposes and for the same time period, as the 
     appropriation to which transferred: Provided further, That 
     none of the funds made available under this heading may be 
     transferred to any program, project, or activity specifically 
     limited or denied by this Act: Provided further, That the 
     transfer authority provided under this heading is in addition 
     to any other transfer authority available to the Department 
     of Defense.

                               TITLE III

                              PROCUREMENT

                       Aircraft Procurement, Army

       For construction, procurement, production, modification, 
     and modernization of aircraft, equipment, including ordnance, 
     ground handling equipment, spare parts, and accessories 
     therefor; specialized equipment and training devices; 
     expansion of public and private plants, including the land 
     necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and such 
     lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and 
     construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; 
     and procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, 
     and machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant 
     and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; and 
     other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes, 
     $4,456,533,000, to remain available for obligation until 
     September 30, 2020.

                       Missile Procurement, Army

       For construction, procurement, production, modification, 
     and modernization of missiles, equipment, including ordnance, 
     ground handling equipment, spare parts, and accessories

[[Page H6374]]

     therefor; specialized equipment and training devices; 
     expansion of public and private plants, including the land 
     necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and such 
     lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and 
     construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; 
     and procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, 
     and machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant 
     and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; and 
     other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes, 
     $2,581,600,000, to remain available for obligation until 
     September 30, 2020.

        Procurement of Weapons and Tracked Combat Vehicles, Army

       For construction, procurement, production, and modification 
     of weapons and tracked combat vehicles, equipment, including 
     ordnance, spare parts, and accessories therefor; specialized 
     equipment and training devices; expansion of public and 
     private plants, including the land necessary therefor, for 
     the foregoing purposes, and such lands and interests therein, 
     may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to 
     approval of title; and procurement and installation of 
     equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and 
     private plants; reserve plant and Government and contractor-
     owned equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for the 
     foregoing purposes, $3,556,175,000, to remain available for 
     obligation until September 30, 2020.

                    Procurement of Ammunition, Army

       For construction, procurement, production, and modification 
     of ammunition, and accessories therefor; specialized 
     equipment and training devices; expansion of public and 
     private plants, including ammunition facilities, authorized 
     by section 2854 of title 10, United States Code, and the land 
     necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and such 
     lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and 
     construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; 
     and procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, 
     and machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant 
     and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; and 
     other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes, 
     $1,811,808,000, to remain available for obligation until 
     September 30, 2020.

                        Other Procurement, Army

       For construction, procurement, production, and modification 
     of vehicles, including tactical, support, and non-tracked 
     combat vehicles; the purchase of passenger motor vehicles for 
     replacement only; communications and electronic equipment; 
     other support equipment; spare parts, ordnance, and 
     accessories therefor; specialized equipment and training 
     devices; expansion of public and private plants, including 
     the land necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and 
     such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and 
     construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; 
     and procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, 
     and machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant 
     and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; and 
     other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes, 
     $6,356,044,000, to remain available for obligation until 
     September 30, 2020.

                       Aircraft Procurement, Navy

       For construction, procurement, production, modification, 
     and modernization of aircraft, equipment, including ordnance, 
     spare parts, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment; 
     expansion of public and private plants, including the land 
     necessary therefor, and such lands and interests therein, may 
     be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to 
     approval of title; and procurement and installation of 
     equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and 
     private plants; reserve plant and Government and contractor-
     owned equipment layaway, $17,908,270,000, to remain available 
     for obligation until September 30, 2020.

                       Weapons Procurement, Navy

       For construction, procurement, production, modification, 
     and modernization of missiles, torpedoes, other weapons, and 
     related support equipment including spare parts, and 
     accessories therefor; expansion of public and private plants, 
     including the land necessary therefor, and such lands and 
     interests therein, may be acquired, and construction 
     prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and 
     procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, and 
     machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant and 
     Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway, 
     $3,387,826,000, to remain available for obligation until 
     September 30, 2020.

            Procurement of Ammunition, Navy and Marine Corps

       For construction, procurement, production, and modification 
     of ammunition, and accessories therefor; specialized 
     equipment and training devices; expansion of public and 
     private plants, including ammunition facilities, authorized 
     by section 2854 of title 10, United States Code, and the land 
     necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and such 
     lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and 
     construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; 
     and procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, 
     and machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant 
     and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; and 
     other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes, 
     $735,651,000, to remain available for obligation until 
     September 30, 2020.

                   Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy

       For expenses necessary for the construction, acquisition, 
     or conversion of vessels as authorized by law, including 
     armor and armament thereof, plant equipment, appliances, and 
     machine tools and installation thereof in public and private 
     plants; reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned 
     equipment layaway; procurement of critical, long lead time 
     components and designs for vessels to be constructed or 
     converted in the future; and expansion of public and private 
     plants, including land necessary therefor, and such lands and 
     interests therein, may be acquired, and construction 
     prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title, as follows:
       Ohio Replacement Submarine (AP), $842,853,000;
       Carrier Replacement Program, $1,869,646,000;
       Carrier Replacement Program (AP), $2,561,058,000;
       Virginia Class Submarine, $3,305,315,000;
       Virginia Class Submarine (AP), $1,920,596,000;
       CVN Refueling Overhauls, $1,569,669,000;
       CVN Refueling Overhauls (AP), $75,897,000;
       DDG-1000 Program, $164,976,000;
       DDG-51 Destroyer, $3,499,079,000;
       DDG-51 Destroyer (AP), $90,336,000;
       Littoral Combat Ship, $1,566,971,000;
       Expeditionary Sea Base, $635,000,000;
       LHA Replacement, $1,695,077,000;
       TAO Fleet Oiler, $449,415,000;
       TAO Fleet Oiler (AP), $75,068,000;
       Ship to Shore Connector, $390,554,000;
       Service Craft, $23,994,000;
       Towing, Salvage, and Rescue Ship, $76,204,000;
       LCU 1700, $31,850,000;
       For outfitting, post delivery, conversions, and first 
     destination transportation, $542,626,000; and
       Completion of Prior Year Shipbuilding Programs, 
     $117,542,000.
       In all: $21,503,726,000, to remain available for obligation 
     until September 30, 2022:  Provided, That additional 
     obligations may be incurred after September 30, 2022, for 
     engineering services, tests, evaluations, and other such 
     budgeted work that must be performed in the final stage of 
     ship construction:  Provided further, That none of the funds 
     provided under this heading for the construction or 
     conversion of any naval vessel to be constructed in shipyards 
     in the United States shall be expended in foreign facilities 
     for the construction of major components of such vessel:  
     Provided further, That none of the funds provided under this 
     heading shall be used for the construction of any naval 
     vessel in foreign shipyards:  Provided further, That funds 
     appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act for 
     production of the common missile compartment of nuclear-
     powered vessels may be available for multiyear procurement of 
     critical components to support continuous production of such 
     compartments only in accordance with the provisions of 
     subsection (i) of section 2218a of title 10, United States 
     Code (as added by section 1023 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328)).

                        Other Procurement, Navy

       For procurement, production, and modernization of support 
     equipment and materials not otherwise provided for, Navy 
     ordnance (except ordnance for new aircraft, new ships, and 
     ships authorized for conversion); the purchase of passenger 
     motor vehicles for replacement only; expansion of public and 
     private plants, including the land necessary therefor, and 
     such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and 
     construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; 
     and procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, 
     and machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant 
     and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway, 
     $7,852,952,000, to remain available for obligation until 
     September 30, 2020.

                       Procurement, Marine Corps

       For expenses necessary for the procurement, manufacture, 
     and modification of missiles, armament, military equipment, 
     spare parts, and accessories therefor; plant equipment, 
     appliances, and machine tools, and installation thereof in 
     public and private plants; reserve plant and Government and 
     contractor-owned equipment layaway; vehicles for the Marine 
     Corps, including the purchase of passenger motor vehicles for 
     replacement only; and expansion of public and private plants, 
     including land necessary therefor, and such lands and 
     interests therein, may be acquired, and construction 
     prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title, 
     $1,818,846,000, to remain available for obligation until 
     September 30, 2020.

                    Aircraft Procurement, Air Force

       For construction, procurement, and modification of aircraft 
     and equipment, including armor and armament, specialized 
     ground handling equipment, and training devices, spare parts, 
     and accessories therefor; specialized equipment; expansion of 
     public and private plants, Government-owned equipment and 
     installation thereof in such plants, erection of structures, 
     and acquisition of land, for the foregoing purposes, and such 
     lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and 
     construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; 
     reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment 
     layaway; and other expenses necessary for the foregoing 
     purposes including rents and transportation of things, 
     $16,553,196,000, to remain available for obligation until 
     September 30, 2020.

                     Missile Procurement, Air Force

       For construction, procurement, and modification of 
     missiles, rockets, and related equipment, including spare 
     parts and accessories therefor; ground handling equipment, 
     and training devices; expansion of public and private plants, 
     Government-owned equipment and installation thereof in such 
     plants, erection of structures, and acquisition of land, for 
     the foregoing purposes, and such lands and interests therein, 
     may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to 
     approval of title; reserve plant and Government and 
     contractor-owned equipment layaway; and other expenses 
     necessary for the foregoing purposes including rents and 
     transportation of things, $2,203,101,000, to remain available 
     for obligation until September 30, 2020.

[[Page H6375]]

  


                      Space Procurement, Air Force

       For construction, procurement, and modification of 
     spacecraft, rockets, and related equipment, including spare 
     parts and accessories therefor; ground handling equipment, 
     and training devices; expansion of public and private plants, 
     Government-owned equipment and installation thereof in such 
     plants, erection of structures, and acquisition of land, for 
     the foregoing purposes, and such lands and interests therein, 
     may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to 
     approval of title; reserve plant and Government and 
     contractor-owned equipment layaway; and other expenses 
     necessary for the foregoing purposes including rents and 
     transportation of things, $3,210,355,000, to remain available 
     for obligation until September 30, 2020.

                  Procurement of Ammunition, Air Force

       For construction, procurement, production, and modification 
     of ammunition, and accessories therefor; specialized 
     equipment and training devices; expansion of public and 
     private plants, including ammunition facilities, authorized 
     by section 2854 of title 10, United States Code, and the land 
     necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and such 
     lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and 
     construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; 
     and procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, 
     and machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant 
     and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; and 
     other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes, 
     $1,316,977,000, to remain available for obligation until 
     September 30, 2020.

                      Other Procurement, Air Force

       For procurement and modification of equipment (including 
     ground guidance and electronic control equipment, and ground 
     electronic and communication equipment), and supplies, 
     materials, and spare parts therefor, not otherwise provided 
     for; the purchase of passenger motor vehicles for replacement 
     only; lease of passenger motor vehicles; and expansion of 
     public and private plants, Government-owned equipment and 
     installation thereof in such plants, erection of structures, 
     and acquisition of land, for the foregoing purposes, and such 
     lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and 
     construction prosecuted thereon, prior to approval of title; 
     reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment 
     layaway, $19,318,814,000, to remain available for obligation 
     until September 30, 2020.

                       Procurement, Defense-Wide

       For expenses of activities and agencies of the Department 
     of Defense (other than the military departments) necessary 
     for procurement, production, and modification of equipment, 
     supplies, materials, and spare parts therefor, not otherwise 
     provided for; the purchase of passenger motor vehicles for 
     replacement only; expansion of public and private plants, 
     equipment, and installation thereof in such plants, erection 
     of structures, and acquisition of land for the foregoing 
     purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be 
     acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to 
     approval of title; reserve plant and Government and 
     contractor-owned equipment layaway, $5,239,239,000, to remain 
     available for obligation until September 30, 2020.

                    Defense Production Act Purchases

       For activities by the Department of Defense pursuant to 
     sections 108, 301, 302, and 303 of the Defense Production Act 
     of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 4518, 4531, 4532, and 4533), $67,401,000, 
     to remain available until expended.

             Procurement, National Defense Restoration Fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

       In addition to amounts provided elsewhere in this Act, 
     there is appropriated $12,622,931,000, for the ``Procurement, 
     National Defense Restoration Fund'': Provided, That such 
     funds provided under this heading shall only be available for 
     programs, projects and activities necessary to implement the 
     2018 National Defense Strategy: Provided further, That such 
     funds shall not be available for transfer until 30 days after 
     the Secretary has submitted, and the congressional defense 
     committees have approved, the proposed allocation plan for 
     the use of such funds to implement such strategy: Provided 
     further, That such allocation plan shall include a detailed 
     justification for the use of such funds and a description of 
     how such investments are necessary to implement the strategy: 
     Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense may transfer 
     these funds only to procurement accounts: Provided further, 
     That the funds transferred shall be merged with and shall be 
     available for the same purposes and for the same time period, 
     as the appropriation to which transferred: Provided further, 
     That none of the funds made available under this heading may 
     be transferred to any program, project, or activity 
     specifically limited or denied by this Act: Provided further, 
     That the transfer authority provided under this heading is in 
     addition to any other transfer authority available to the 
     Department of Defense.

                                TITLE IV

               RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army

       For expenses necessary for basic and applied scientific 
     research, development, test and evaluation, including 
     maintenance, rehabilitation, lease, and operation of 
     facilities and equipment, $9,674,222,000, to remain available 
     for obligation until September 30, 2019.

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy

       For expenses necessary for basic and applied scientific 
     research, development, test and evaluation, including 
     maintenance, rehabilitation, lease, and operation of 
     facilities and equipment, $17,196,521,000, to remain 
     available for obligation until September 30, 2019:  Provided, 
     That funds appropriated in this paragraph which are available 
     for the V-22 may be used to meet unique operational 
     requirements of the Special Operations Forces.

         Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force

       For expenses necessary for basic and applied scientific 
     research, development, test and evaluation, including 
     maintenance, rehabilitation, lease, and operation of 
     facilities and equipment, $33,874,980,000, to remain 
     available for obligation until September 30, 2019.

        Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For expenses of activities and agencies of the Department 
     of Defense (other than the military departments), necessary 
     for basic and applied scientific research, development, test 
     and evaluation; advanced research projects as may be 
     designated and determined by the Secretary of Defense, 
     pursuant to law; maintenance, rehabilitation, lease, and 
     operation of facilities and equipment, $20,698,353,000, to 
     remain available for obligation until September 30, 2019:  
     Provided, That, of the funds made available in this 
     paragraph, $250,000,000 for the Defense Rapid Innovation 
     Program shall only be available for expenses, not otherwise 
     provided for, to include program management and oversight, to 
     conduct research, development, test and evaluation to include 
     proof of concept demonstration; engineering, testing, and 
     validation; and transition to full-scale production:  
     Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense may transfer 
     funds provided herein for the Defense Rapid Innovation 
     Program to appropriations for research, development, test and 
     evaluation to accomplish the purpose provided herein:  
     Provided further, That this transfer authority is in addition 
     to any other transfer authority available to the Department 
     of Defense:  Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense 
     shall, not fewer than 30 days prior to making transfers from 
     this appropriation, notify the congressional defense 
     committees in writing of the details of any such transfer.

                Operational Test and Evaluation, Defense

       For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
     independent activities of the Director, Operational Test and 
     Evaluation, in the direction and supervision of operational 
     test and evaluation, including initial operational test and 
     evaluation which is conducted prior to, and in support of, 
     production decisions; joint operational testing and 
     evaluation; and administrative expenses in connection 
     therewith, $210,900,000, to remain available for obligation 
     until September 30, 2019.

     Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, National Defense 
                            Restoration Fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

       In addition to amounts provided elsewhere in this Act, 
     there is appropriated $1,000,000,000, for the ``Research, 
     Development, Test and Evaluation, National Defense 
     Restoration Fund'': Provided, That such funds provided under 
     this heading shall only be available for programs, projects 
     and activities necessary to implement the 2018 National 
     Defense Strategy: Provided further, That such funds shall not 
     be available for transfer until 30 days after the Secretary 
     has submitted, and the congressional defense committees have 
     approved, the proposed allocation plan for the use of such 
     funds to implement such strategy: Provided further, That such 
     allocation plan shall include a detailed justification for 
     the use of such funds and a description of how such 
     investments are necessary to implement the strategy: Provided 
     further, That the Secretary of Defense may transfer these 
     funds only to research, development, test and evaluation 
     accounts: Provided further, That the funds transferred shall 
     be merged with and shall be available for the same purposes 
     and for the same time period, as the appropriation to which 
     transferred: Provided further, That none of the funds made 
     available under this heading may be transferred to any 
     program, project, or activity specifically limited or denied 
     by this Act; Provided further, That the transfer authority 
     provided under this heading is in addition to any other 
     transfer authority available to the Department of Defense.

                                TITLE V

                     REVOLVING AND MANAGEMENT FUNDS

                     Defense Working Capital Funds

       For the Defense Working Capital Funds, $1,586,596,000.

                                TITLE VI

                  OTHER DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROGRAMS

                         Defense Health Program

       For expenses, not otherwise provided for, for medical and 
     health care programs of the Department of Defense as 
     authorized by law, $33,931,566,000; of which $31,735,923,000 
     shall be for operation and maintenance, of which not to 
     exceed one percent shall remain available for obligation 
     until September 30, 2019, and of which up to $15,349,700,000 
     may be available for contracts entered into under the TRICARE 
     program; of which $895,328,000, to remain available for 
     obligation until September 30, 2020, shall be for 
     procurement; and of which $1,300,315,000, to remain available 
     for obligation until September 30, 2019, shall be for 
     research, development, test and evaluation:  Provided, That, 
     notwithstanding any other provision of law, of the amount 
     made available under this heading for research, development, 
     test and evaluation, not less than $8,000,000 shall be 
     available for HIV

[[Page H6376]]

     prevention educational activities undertaken in connection 
     with United States military training, exercises, and 
     humanitarian assistance activities conducted primarily in 
     African nations:  Provided further, That of the funds 
     provided under this heading for research, development, test 
     and evaluation, not less than $627,100,000 shall be made 
     available to the United States Army Medical Research and 
     Materiel Command to carry out the congressionally directed 
     medical research programs.

           Chemical Agents and Munitions Destruction, Defense

       For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
     destruction of the United States stockpile of lethal chemical 
     agents and munitions in accordance with the provisions of 
     section 1412 of the Department of Defense Authorization Act, 
     1986 (50 U.S.C. 1521), and for the destruction of other 
     chemical warfare materials that are not in the chemical 
     weapon stockpile, $961,732,000, of which $104,237,000 shall 
     be for operation and maintenance, of which no less than 
     $49,401,000 shall be for the Chemical Stockpile Emergency 
     Preparedness Program, consisting of $21,045,000 for 
     activities on military installations and $28,356,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2019, to assist State 
     and local governments; $18,081,000 shall be for procurement, 
     to remain available until September 30, 2020, of which 
     $18,081,000 shall be for the Chemical Stockpile Emergency 
     Preparedness Program to assist State and local governments; 
     and $839,414,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2019, shall be for research, development, test and 
     evaluation, of which $750,700,000 shall only be for the 
     Assembled Chemical Weapons Alternatives program.

         Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For drug interdiction and counter-drug activities of the 
     Department of Defense, for transfer to appropriations 
     available to the Department of Defense for military personnel 
     of the reserve components serving under the provisions of 
     title 10 and title 32, United States Code; for operation and 
     maintenance; for procurement; and for research, development, 
     test and evaluation, $854,814,000, of which $532,648,000 
     shall be for counter-narcotics support; $120,813,000 shall be 
     for the drug demand reduction program; and $201,353,000 shall 
     be for the National Guard counter-drug program:  Provided, 
     That the funds appropriated under this heading shall be 
     available for obligation for the same time period and for the 
     same purpose as the appropriation to which transferred:  
     Provided further, That upon a determination that all or part 
     of the funds transferred from this appropriation are not 
     necessary for the purposes provided herein, such amounts may 
     be transferred back to this appropriation:  Provided further, 
     That the transfer authority provided under this heading is in 
     addition to any other transfer authority contained elsewhere 
     in this Act.

                    Office of the Inspector General

       For expenses and activities of the Office of the Inspector 
     General in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector 
     General Act of 1978, as amended, $336,887,000, of which 
     $334,087,000 shall be for operation and maintenance, of which 
     not to exceed $700,000 is available for emergencies and 
     extraordinary expenses to be expended on the approval or 
     authority of the Inspector General, and payments may be made 
     on the Inspector General's certificate of necessity for 
     confidential military purposes; and of which $2,800,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2019, shall be for 
     research, development, test and evaluation.

                               TITLE VII

                            RELATED AGENCIES

   Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability System Fund

       For payment to the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement 
     and Disability System Fund, to maintain the proper funding 
     level for continuing the operation of the Central 
     Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability System, 
     $514,000,000.

               Intelligence Community Management Account

       For necessary expenses of the Intelligence Community 
     Management Account, $522,100,000.

                               TITLE VIII

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

       Sec. 8001.  No part of any appropriation contained in this 
     Act shall be used for publicity or propaganda purposes not 
     authorized by the Congress.
       Sec. 8002.  During the current fiscal year, provisions of 
     law prohibiting the payment of compensation to, or employment 
     of, any person not a citizen of the United States shall not 
     apply to personnel of the Department of Defense:  Provided, 
     That salary increases granted to direct and indirect hire 
     foreign national employees of the Department of Defense 
     funded by this Act shall not be at a rate in excess of the 
     percentage increase authorized by law for civilian employees 
     of the Department of Defense whose pay is computed under the 
     provisions of section 5332 of title 5, United States Code, or 
     at a rate in excess of the percentage increase provided by 
     the appropriate host nation to its own employees, whichever 
     is higher:  Provided further, That this section shall not 
     apply to Department of Defense foreign service national 
     employees serving at United States diplomatic missions whose 
     pay is set by the Department of State under the Foreign 
     Service Act of 1980:  Provided further, That the limitations 
     of this provision shall not apply to foreign national 
     employees of the Department of Defense in the Republic of 
     Turkey.
       Sec. 8003.  No part of any appropriation contained in this 
     Act shall remain available for obligation beyond the current 
     fiscal year, unless expressly so provided herein.
       Sec. 8004.  No more than 20 percent of the appropriations 
     in this Act which are limited for obligation during the 
     current fiscal year shall be obligated during the last 2 
     months of the fiscal year:  Provided, That this section shall 
     not apply to obligations for support of active duty training 
     of reserve components or summer camp training of the Reserve 
     Officers' Training Corps.

                          (transfer of funds)

       Sec. 8005.  Upon determination by the Secretary of Defense 
     that such action is necessary in the national interest, he 
     may, with the approval of the Office of Management and 
     Budget, transfer not to exceed $4,500,000,000 of working 
     capital funds of the Department of Defense or funds made 
     available in this Act to the Department of Defense for 
     military functions (except military construction) between 
     such appropriations or funds or any subdivision thereof, to 
     be merged with and to be available for the same purposes, and 
     for the same time period, as the appropriation or fund to 
     which transferred:  Provided, That such authority to transfer 
     may not be used unless for higher priority items, based on 
     unforeseen military requirements, than those for which 
     originally appropriated and in no case where the item for 
     which funds are requested has been denied by the Congress:  
     Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense shall notify 
     the Congress promptly of all transfers made pursuant to this 
     authority or any other authority in this Act:  Provided 
     further, That no part of the funds in this Act shall be 
     available to prepare or present a request to the Committees 
     on Appropriations for reprogramming of funds, unless for 
     higher priority items, based on unforeseen military 
     requirements, than those for which originally appropriated 
     and in no case where the item for which reprogramming is 
     requested has been denied by the Congress:  Provided further, 
     That a request for multiple reprogrammings of funds using 
     authority provided in this section shall be made prior to 
     June 30, 2017:  Provided further, That transfers among 
     military personnel appropriations shall not be taken into 
     account for purposes of the limitation on the amount of funds 
     that may be transferred under this section.
       Sec. 8006. (a) With regard to the list of specific 
     programs, projects, and activities (and the dollar amounts 
     and adjustments to budget activities corresponding to such 
     programs, projects, and activities) contained in the tables 
     titled Explanation of Project Level Adjustments in the 
     explanatory statement regarding this Act, the obligation and 
     expenditure of amounts appropriated or otherwise made 
     available in this Act for those programs, projects, and 
     activities for which the amounts appropriated exceed the 
     amounts requested are hereby required by law to be carried 
     out in the manner provided by such tables to the same extent 
     as if the tables were included in the text of this Act.
       (b) Amounts specified in the referenced tables described in 
     subsection (a) shall not be treated as subdivisions of 
     appropriations for purposes of section 8005 of this Act:  
     Provided, That section 8005 shall apply when transfers of the 
     amounts described in subsection (a) occur between 
     appropriation accounts.
       Sec. 8007. (a) Not later than 60 days after enactment of 
     this Act, the Department of Defense shall submit a report to 
     the congressional defense committees to establish the 
     baseline for application of reprogramming and transfer 
     authorities for fiscal year 2018:  Provided, That the report 
     shall include--
       (1) a table for each appropriation with a separate column 
     to display the President's budget request, adjustments made 
     by Congress, adjustments due to enacted rescissions, if 
     appropriate, and the fiscal year enacted level;
       (2) a delineation in the table for each appropriation both 
     by budget activity and program, project, and activity as 
     detailed in the Budget Appendix; and
       (3) an identification of items of special congressional 
     interest.
       (b) Notwithstanding section 8005 of this Act, none of the 
     funds provided in this Act shall be available for 
     reprogramming or transfer until the report identified in 
     subsection (a) is submitted to the congressional defense 
     committees, unless the Secretary of Defense certifies in 
     writing to the congressional defense committees that such 
     reprogramming or transfer is necessary as an emergency 
     requirement:  Provided, That this subsection shall not apply 
     to transfers from the following appropriations accounts:
       (1) ``Environmental Restoration, Army'';
       (2) ``Environmental Restoration, Navy'' ;
       (3) ``Environmental Restoration, Air Force'';
       (4) ``Environmental Restoration, Defense-Wide''
       (5) ``Environmental Restoration, Formerly Used Defense 
     Sites''; and
       (6) ``Drug Interdiction and Counter-drug Activities, 
     Defense''.

                          (transfer of funds)

       Sec. 8008.  During the current fiscal year, cash balances 
     in working capital funds of the Department of Defense 
     established pursuant to section 2208 of title 10, United 
     States Code, may be maintained in only such amounts as are 
     necessary at any time for cash disbursements to be made from 
     such funds:  Provided, That transfers may be made between 
     such funds:  Provided further, That transfers may be made 
     between working capital funds and the ``Foreign Currency 
     Fluctuations, Defense'' appropriation and the ``Operation and 
     Maintenance'' appropriation accounts in such amounts as may 
     be determined by the Secretary of Defense, with the approval 
     of the Office of Management and Budget, except that such 
     transfers may not be made unless the Secretary of Defense has 
     notified the Congress of the proposed transfer:  Provided 
     further, That except in amounts equal to the amounts 
     appropriated to working capital funds in this Act, no 
     obligations may be made against a working capital fund to 
     procure or increase the value of war

[[Page H6377]]

     reserve material inventory, unless the Secretary of Defense 
     has notified the Congress prior to any such obligation.
       Sec. 8009.  Funds appropriated by this Act may not be used 
     to initiate a special access program without prior 
     notification 30 calendar days in advance to the congressional 
     defense committees.
       Sec. 8010.  None of the funds provided in this Act shall be 
     available to initiate: (1) a multiyear contract that employs 
     economic order quantity procurement in excess of $20,000,000 
     in any one year of the contract or that includes an unfunded 
     contingent liability in excess of $20,000,000; or (2) a 
     contract for advance procurement leading to a multiyear 
     contract that employs economic order quantity procurement in 
     excess of $20,000,000 in any one year, unless the 
     congressional defense committees have been notified at least 
     30 days in advance of the proposed contract award:  Provided, 
     That no part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
     be available to initiate a multiyear contract for which the 
     economic order quantity advance procurement is not funded at 
     least to the limits of the Government's liability:  Provided 
     further, That no part of any appropriation contained in this 
     Act shall be available to initiate multiyear procurement 
     contracts for any systems or component thereof if the value 
     of the multiyear contract would exceed $500,000,000 unless 
     specifically provided in this Act:  Provided further, That no 
     multiyear procurement contract can be terminated without 30-
     day prior notification to the congressional defense 
     committees:  Provided further, That the execution of 
     multiyear authority shall require the use of a present value 
     analysis to determine lowest cost compared to an annual 
     procurement:  Provided further, That none of the funds 
     provided in this Act may be used for a multiyear contract 
     executed after the date of the enactment of this Act unless 
     in the case of any such contract--
       (1) the Secretary of Defense has submitted to Congress a 
     budget request for full funding of units to be procured 
     through the contract and, in the case of a contract for 
     procurement of aircraft, that includes, for any aircraft unit 
     to be procured through the contract for which procurement 
     funds are requested in that budget request for production 
     beyond advance procurement activities in the fiscal year 
     covered by the budget, full funding of procurement of such 
     unit in that fiscal year;
       (2) cancellation provisions in the contract do not include 
     consideration of recurring manufacturing costs of the 
     contractor associated with the production of unfunded units 
     to be delivered under the contract;
       (3) the contract provides that payments to the contractor 
     under the contract shall not be made in advance of incurred 
     costs on funded units; and
       (4) the contract does not provide for a price adjustment 
     based on a failure to award a follow-on contract.
     Funds appropriated in title III of this Act may be used, 
     subject to section 2306b of title 10 , United States Code, 
     for multiyear procurement contracts as follows: V-22 Osprey 
     aircraft variants; SSN Virginia Class Submarine and 
     Government-furnished equipment; and up to 10 DDG-51 Arleigh 
     Burke class Flight III guided missile destroyers, the MK 41 
     Vertical Launching Systems, and associated Government-
     furnished systems and subsystems.
       Sec. 8011.  Within the funds appropriated for the operation 
     and maintenance of the Armed Forces, funds are hereby 
     appropriated pursuant to section 401 of title 10, United 
     States Code, for humanitarian and civic assistance costs 
     under chapter 20 of title 10, United States Code. Such funds 
     may also be obligated for humanitarian and civic assistance 
     costs incidental to authorized operations and pursuant to 
     authority granted in section 401 of chapter 20 of title 10, 
     United States Code, and these obligations shall be reported 
     as required by section 401(d) of title 10, United States 
     Code:  Provided, That funds available for operation and 
     maintenance shall be available for providing humanitarian and 
     similar assistance by using Civic Action Teams in the Trust 
     Territories of the Pacific Islands and freely associated 
     states of Micronesia, pursuant to the Compact of Free 
     Association as authorized by Public Law 99-239:  Provided 
     further, That upon a determination by the Secretary of the 
     Army that such action is beneficial for graduate medical 
     education programs conducted at Army medical facilities 
     located in Hawaii, the Secretary of the Army may authorize 
     the provision of medical services at such facilities and 
     transportation to such facilities, on a nonreimbursable 
     basis, for civilian patients from American Samoa, the 
     Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Marshall 
     Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, Palau, and Guam.
       Sec. 8012. (a) During the current fiscal year, the civilian 
     personnel of the Department of Defense may not be managed on 
     the basis of any end-strength, and the management of such 
     personnel during that fiscal year shall not be subject to any 
     constraint or limitation (known as an end-strength) on the 
     number of such personnel who may be employed on the last day 
     of such fiscal year.
       (b) The fiscal year 2019 budget request for the Department 
     of Defense as well as all justification material and other 
     documentation supporting the fiscal year 2019 Department of 
     Defense budget request shall be prepared and submitted to the 
     Congress as if subsections (a) and (b) of this provision were 
     effective with regard to fiscal year 2019.
       (c) As required by section 1107 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 10 
     U.S.C. 2358 note) civilian personnel at the Department of 
     Army Science and Technology Reinvention Laboratories may not 
     be managed on the basis of the Table of Distribution and 
     Allowances, and the management of the workforce strength 
     shall be done in a manner consistent with the budget 
     available with respect to such Laboratories.
       (d) Nothing in this section shall be construed to apply to 
     military (civilian) technicians.
       Sec. 8013.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     shall be used in any way, directly or indirectly, to 
     influence congressional action on any legislation or 
     appropriation matters pending before the Congress.
       Sec. 8014.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
     shall be available for the basic pay and allowances of any 
     member of the Army participating as a full-time student and 
     receiving benefits paid by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
     from the Department of Defense Education Benefits Fund when 
     time spent as a full-time student is credited toward 
     completion of a service commitment:  Provided, That this 
     section shall not apply to those members who have reenlisted 
     with this option prior to October 1, 1987:  Provided further, 
     That this section applies only to active components of the 
     Army.

                          (transfer of funds)

       Sec. 8015.  Funds appropriated in title III of this Act for 
     the Department of Defense Pilot Mentor-Protege Program may be 
     transferred to any other appropriation contained in this Act 
     solely for the purpose of implementing a Mentor-Protege 
     Program developmental assistance agreement pursuant to 
     section 831 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 1991 (Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note), 
     as amended, under the authority of this provision or any 
     other transfer authority contained in this Act.
       Sec. 8016.  None of the funds in this Act may be available 
     for the purchase by the Department of Defense (and its 
     departments and agencies) of welded shipboard anchor and 
     mooring chain 4 inches in diameter and under unless the 
     anchor and mooring chain are manufactured in the United 
     States from components which are substantially manufactured 
     in the United States:  Provided, That for the purpose of this 
     section, the term ``manufactured'' shall include cutting, 
     heat treating, quality control, testing of chain and welding 
     (including the forging and shot blasting process):  Provided 
     further, That for the purpose of this section substantially 
     all of the components of anchor and mooring chain shall be 
     considered to be produced or manufactured in the United 
     States if the aggregate cost of the components produced or 
     manufactured in the United States exceeds the aggregate cost 
     of the components produced or manufactured outside the United 
     States:  Provided further, That when adequate domestic 
     supplies are not available to meet Department of Defense 
     requirements on a timely basis, the Secretary of the service 
     responsible for the procurement may waive this restriction on 
     a case-by-case basis by certifying in writing to the 
     Committees on Appropriations that such an acquisition must be 
     made in order to acquire capability for national security 
     purposes.
       Sec. 8017.  None of the funds available to the Department 
     of Defense may be used to demilitarize or dispose of M-1 
     Carbines, M-1 Garand rifles, M-14 rifles, .22 caliber rifles, 
     .30 caliber rifles, or M-1911 pistols, or to demilitarize or 
     destroy small arms ammunition or ammunition components that 
     are not otherwise prohibited from commercial sale under 
     Federal law, unless the small arms ammunition or ammunition 
     components are certified by the Secretary of the Army or 
     designee as unserviceable or unsafe for further use.
       Sec. 8018.  No more than $500,000 of the funds appropriated 
     or made available in this Act shall be used during a single 
     fiscal year for any single relocation of an organization, 
     unit, activity or function of the Department of Defense into 
     or within the National Capital Region:  Provided, That the 
     Secretary of Defense may waive this restriction on a case-by-
     case basis by certifying in writing to the congressional 
     defense committees that such a relocation is required in the 
     best interest of the Government.
       Sec. 8019.  Of the funds made available in this Act, 
     $20,000,000 shall be available for incentive payments 
     authorized by section 504 of the Indian Financing Act of 1974 
     (25 U.S.C. 1544):  Provided, That a prime contractor or a 
     subcontractor at any tier that makes a subcontract award to 
     any subcontractor or supplier as defined in section 1544 of 
     title 25, United States Code, or a small business owned and 
     controlled by an individual or individuals defined under 
     section 4221(9) of title 25, United States Code, shall be 
     considered a contractor for the purposes of being allowed 
     additional compensation under section 504 of the Indian 
     Financing Act of 1974 (25 U.S.C. 1544) whenever the prime 
     contract or subcontract amount is over $500,000 and involves 
     the expenditure of funds appropriated by an Act making 
     appropriations for the Department of Defense with respect to 
     any fiscal year:  Provided further, That notwithstanding 
     section 1906 of title 41, United States Code, this section 
     shall be applicable to any Department of Defense acquisition 
     of supplies or services, including any contract and any 
     subcontract at any tier for acquisition of commercial items 
     produced or manufactured, in whole or in part, by any 
     subcontractor or supplier defined in section 1544 of title 
     25, United States Code, or a small business owned and 
     controlled by an individual or individuals defined under 
     section 4221(9) of title 25, United States Code.
       Sec. 8020.  Funds appropriated by this Act for the Defense 
     Media Activity shall not be used for any national or 
     international political or psychological activities.
       Sec. 8021.  During the current fiscal year, the Department 
     of Defense is authorized to incur obligations of not to 
     exceed $350,000,000 for purposes specified in section 
     2350j(c) of title 10, United States Code, in anticipation of 
     receipt of contributions, only from the Government of Kuwait, 
     under that section:  Provided, That, upon

[[Page H6378]]

     receipt, such contributions from the Government of Kuwait 
     shall be credited to the appropriations or fund which 
     incurred such obligations.
       Sec. 8022. (a) Of the funds made available in this Act, not 
     less than $43,100,000 shall be available for the Civil Air 
     Patrol Corporation, of which--
       (1) $30,800,000 shall be available from ``Operation and 
     Maintenance, Air Force'' to support Civil Air Patrol 
     Corporation operation and maintenance, readiness, counter-
     drug activities, and drug demand reduction activities 
     involving youth programs;
       (2) $10,600,000 shall be available from ``Aircraft 
     Procurement, Air Force''; and
       (3) $1,700,000 shall be available from ``Other Procurement, 
     Air Force'' for vehicle procurement.
       (b) The Secretary of the Air Force should waive 
     reimbursement for any funds used by the Civil Air Patrol for 
     counter-drug activities in support of Federal, State, and 
     local government agencies.
       Sec. 8023. (a) None of the funds appropriated in this Act 
     are available to establish a new Department of Defense 
     (department) federally funded research and development center 
     (FFRDC), either as a new entity, or as a separate entity 
     administrated by an organization managing another FFRDC, or 
     as a nonprofit membership corporation consisting of a 
     consortium of other FFRDCs and other nonprofit entities.
       (b) No member of a Board of Directors, Trustees, Overseers, 
     Advisory Group, Special Issues Panel, Visiting Committee, or 
     any similar entity of a defense FFRDC, and no paid consultant 
     to any defense FFRDC, except when acting in a technical 
     advisory capacity, may be compensated for his or her services 
     as a member of such entity, or as a paid consultant by more 
     than one FFRDC in a fiscal year:  Provided, That a member of 
     any such entity referred to previously in this subsection 
     shall be allowed travel expenses and per diem as authorized 
     under the Federal Joint Travel Regulations, when engaged in 
     the performance of membership duties.
       (c) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
     funds available to the department from any source during the 
     current fiscal year may be used by a defense FFRDC, through a 
     fee or other payment mechanism, for construction of new 
     buildings not located on a military installation, for payment 
     of cost sharing for projects funded by Government grants, for 
     absorption of contract overruns, or for certain charitable 
     contributions, not to include employee participation in 
     community service and/or development.
       (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, of the 
     funds available to the department during fiscal year 2018, 
     not more than 6,000 staff years of technical effort (staff 
     years) may be funded for defense FFRDCs:  Provided, That, of 
     the specific amount referred to previously in this 
     subsection, not more than 1,180 staff years may be funded for 
     the defense studies and analysis FFRDCs:  Provided further, 
     That this subsection shall not apply to staff years funded in 
     the National Intelligence Program (NIP) and the Military 
     Intelligence Program (MIP).
       (e) The Secretary of Defense shall, with the submission of 
     the department's fiscal year 2019 budget request, submit a 
     report presenting the specific amounts of staff years of 
     technical effort to be allocated for each defense FFRDC 
     during that fiscal year and the associated budget estimates.
       (f) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the 
     total amount appropriated in this Act for FFRDCs is hereby 
     reduced by $210,000,000.
       Sec. 8024.  None of the funds appropriated or made 
     available in this Act shall be used to procure carbon, alloy, 
     or armor steel plate for use in any Government-owned facility 
     or property under the control of the Department of Defense 
     which were not melted and rolled in the United States or 
     Canada:  Provided, That these procurement restrictions shall 
     apply to any and all Federal Supply Class 9515, American 
     Society of Testing and Materials (ASTM) or American Iron and 
     Steel Institute (AISI) specifications of carbon, alloy or 
     armor steel plate:  Provided further, That the Secretary of 
     the military department responsible for the procurement may 
     waive this restriction on a case-by-case basis by certifying 
     in writing to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
     of Representatives and the Senate that adequate domestic 
     supplies are not available to meet Department of Defense 
     requirements on a timely basis and that such an acquisition 
     must be made in order to acquire capability for national 
     security purposes:  Provided further, That these restrictions 
     shall not apply to contracts which are in being as of the 
     date of the enactment of this Act.
       Sec. 8025.  For the purposes of this Act, the term 
     ``congressional defense committees'' means the Armed Services 
     Committee of the House of Representatives, the Armed Services 
     Committee of the Senate, the Subcommittee on Defense of the 
     Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, and the 
     Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on Appropriations of 
     the House of Representatives.
       Sec. 8026.  During the current fiscal year, the Department 
     of Defense may acquire the modification, depot maintenance 
     and repair of aircraft, vehicles and vessels as well as the 
     production of components and other Defense-related articles, 
     through competition between Department of Defense depot 
     maintenance activities and private firms:  Provided, That the 
     Senior Acquisition Executive of the military department or 
     Defense Agency concerned, with power of delegation, shall 
     certify that successful bids include comparable estimates of 
     all direct and indirect costs for both public and private 
     bids:  Provided further, That Office of Management and Budget 
     Circular A-76 shall not apply to competitions conducted under 
     this section.
       Sec. 8027. (a)(1) If the Secretary of Defense, after 
     consultation with the United States Trade Representative, 
     determines that a foreign country which is party to an 
     agreement described in paragraph (2) has violated the terms 
     of the agreement by discriminating against certain types of 
     products produced in the United States that are covered by 
     the agreement, the Secretary of Defense shall rescind the 
     Secretary's blanket waiver of the Buy American Act with 
     respect to such types of products produced in that foreign 
     country.
       (2) An agreement referred to in paragraph (1) is any 
     reciprocal defense procurement memorandum of understanding, 
     between the United States and a foreign country pursuant to 
     which the Secretary of Defense has prospectively waived the 
     Buy American Act for certain products in that country.
       (b) The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Congress a 
     report on the amount of Department of Defense purchases from 
     foreign entities in fiscal year 2018. Such report shall 
     separately indicate the dollar value of items for which the 
     Buy American Act was waived pursuant to any agreement 
     described in subsection (a)(2), the Trade Agreement Act of 
     1979 (19 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.), or any international agreement 
     to which the United States is a party.
       (c) For purposes of this section, the term Buy American Act 
     means chapter 83 of title 41, United States Code.
       Sec. 8028.  During the current fiscal year, amounts 
     contained in the Department of Defense Overseas Military 
     Facility Investment Recovery Account established by section 
     2921(c)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act of 1991 
     (Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note) shall be available 
     until expended for the payments specified by section 
     2921(c)(2) of that Act.
       Sec. 8029. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     the Secretary of the Air Force may convey at no cost to the 
     Air Force, without consideration, to Indian tribes located in 
     the States of Nevada, Idaho, North Dakota, South Dakota, 
     Montana, Oregon, Minnesota, and Washington relocatable 
     military housing units located at Grand Forks Air Force Base, 
     Malmstrom Air Force Base, Mountain Home Air Force Base, 
     Ellsworth Air Force Base, and Minot Air Force Base that are 
     excess to the needs of the Air Force.
       (b) The Secretary of the Air Force shall convey, at no cost 
     to the Air Force, military housing units under subsection (a) 
     in accordance with the request for such units that are 
     submitted to the Secretary by the Operation Walking Shield 
     Program on behalf of Indian tribes located in the States of 
     Nevada, Idaho, North Dakota, South Dakota, Montana, Oregon, 
     Minnesota, and Washington. Any such conveyance shall be 
     subject to the condition that the housing units shall be 
     removed within a reasonable period of time, as determined by 
     the Secretary.
       (c) The Operation Walking Shield Program shall resolve any 
     conflicts among requests of Indian tribes for housing units 
     under subsection (a) before submitting requests to the 
     Secretary of the Air Force under subsection (b).
       (d) In this section, the term Indian tribe means any 
     recognized Indian tribe included on the current list 
     published by the Secretary of the Interior under section 104 
     of the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe Act of 1994 (Public 
     Law 103-454; 108 Stat. 4792; 25 U.S.C. 479a-1).
       Sec. 8030.  During the current fiscal year, appropriations 
     which are available to the Department of Defense for 
     operation and maintenance may be used to purchase items 
     having an investment item unit cost of not more than 
     $250,000.
       Sec. 8031.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     may be used to--
       (1) disestablish, or prepare to disestablish, a Senior 
     Reserve Officers' Training Corps program in accordance with 
     Department of Defense Instruction Number 1215.08, dated June 
     26, 2006; or
       (2) close, downgrade from host to extension center, or 
     place on probation a Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps 
     program in accordance with the information paper of the 
     Department of the Army titled ``Army Senior Reserve Officers' 
     Training Corps (SROTC) Program Review and Criteria'', dated 
     January 27, 2014.
       Sec. 8032.  The Secretary of Defense shall issue 
     regulations to prohibit the sale of any tobacco or tobacco-
     related products in military resale outlets in the United 
     States, its territories and possessions at a price below the 
     most competitive price in the local community:  Provided, 
     That such regulations shall direct that the prices of tobacco 
     or tobacco-related products in overseas military retail 
     outlets shall be within the range of prices established for 
     military retail system stores located in the United States.
       Sec. 8033. (a) During the current fiscal year, none of the 
     appropriations or funds available to the Department of 
     Defense Working Capital Funds shall be used for the purchase 
     of an investment item for the purpose of acquiring a new 
     inventory item for sale or anticipated sale during the 
     current fiscal year or a subsequent fiscal year to customers 
     of the Department of Defense Working Capital Funds if such an 
     item would not have been chargeable to the Department of 
     Defense Business Operations Fund during fiscal year 1994 and 
     if the purchase of such an investment item would be 
     chargeable during the current fiscal year to appropriations 
     made to the Department of Defense for procurement.
       (b) The fiscal year 2019 budget request for the Department 
     of Defense as well as all justification material and other 
     documentation supporting the fiscal year 2019 Department of 
     Defense budget shall be prepared and submitted to the 
     Congress on the basis that any equipment which was classified 
     as an end item and funded in a procurement appropriation 
     contained in this Act shall be budgeted for in a proposed 
     fiscal year 2019 procurement appropriation and not in the 
     supply management business area or any other area or category 
     of the Department of Defense Working Capital Funds.

[[Page H6379]]

       Sec. 8034.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act for 
     programs of the Central Intelligence Agency shall remain 
     available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, 
     except for funds appropriated for the Reserve for 
     Contingencies, which shall remain available until September 
     30, 2019:  Provided, That funds appropriated, transferred, or 
     otherwise credited to the Central Intelligence Agency Central 
     Services Working Capital Fund during this or any prior or 
     subsequent fiscal year shall remain available until expended: 
      Provided further, That any funds appropriated or transferred 
     to the Central Intelligence Agency for advanced research and 
     development acquisition, for agent operations, and for covert 
     action programs authorized by the President under section 503 
     of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3093) shall 
     remain available until September 30, 2019.
       Sec. 8035.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     funds made available in this Act and hereafter for the 
     Defense Intelligence Agency may be used for the design, 
     development, and deployment of General Defense Intelligence 
     Program intelligence communications and intelligence 
     information systems for the Services, the Unified and 
     Specified Commands, and the component commands.
       Sec. 8036.  Of the funds appropriated to the Department of 
     Defense under the heading ``Operation and Maintenance, 
     Defense-Wide'', not less than $12,000,000 shall be made 
     available only for the mitigation of environmental impacts, 
     including training and technical assistance to tribes, 
     related administrative support, the gathering of information, 
     documenting of environmental damage, and developing a system 
     for prioritization of mitigation and cost to complete 
     estimates for mitigation, on Indian lands resulting from 
     Department of Defense activities.
       Sec. 8037. (a) None of the funds appropriated in this Act 
     may be expended by an entity of the Department of Defense 
     unless the entity, in expending the funds, complies with the 
     Buy American Act. For purposes of this subsection, the term 
     Buy American Act means chapter 83 of title 41, United States 
     Code.
       (b) If the Secretary of Defense determines that a person 
     has been convicted of intentionally affixing a label bearing 
     a ``Made in America'' inscription to any product sold in or 
     shipped to the United States that is not made in America, the 
     Secretary shall determine, in accordance with section 2410f 
     of title 10, United States Code, whether the person should be 
     debarred from contracting with the Department of Defense.
       (c) In the case of any equipment or products purchased with 
     appropriations provided under this Act, it is the sense of 
     the Congress that any entity of the Department of Defense, in 
     expending the appropriation, purchase only American-made 
     equipment and products, provided that American-made equipment 
     and products are cost-competitive, quality competitive, and 
     available in a timely fashion.
       Sec. 8038. (a) Except as provided in subsections (b) and 
     (c), none of the funds made available by this Act may be 
     used--
       (1) to establish a field operating agency; or
       (2) to pay the basic pay of a member of the Armed Forces or 
     civilian employee of the department who is transferred or 
     reassigned from a headquarters activity if the member or 
     employee's place of duty remains at the location of that 
     headquarters.
       (b) The Secretary of Defense or Secretary of a military 
     department may waive the limitations in subsection (a), on a 
     case-by-case basis, if the Secretary determines, and 
     certifies to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate that the granting of the 
     waiver will reduce the personnel requirements or the 
     financial requirements of the department.
       (c) This section does not apply to--
       (1) field operating agencies funded within the National 
     Intelligence Program;
       (2) an Army field operating agency established to 
     eliminate, mitigate, or counter the effects of improvised 
     explosive devices, and, as determined by the Secretary of the 
     Army, other similar threats;
       (3) an Army field operating agency established to improve 
     the effectiveness and efficiencies of biometric activities 
     and to integrate common biometric technologies throughout the 
     Department of Defense; or
       (4) an Air Force field operating agency established to 
     administer the Air Force Mortuary Affairs Program and 
     Mortuary Operations for the Department of Defense and 
     authorized Federal entities.
       Sec. 8039. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
     shall be available to convert to contractor performance an 
     activity or function of the Department of Defense that, on or 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act, is performed by 
     Department of Defense civilian employees unless--
       (1) the conversion is based on the result of a public-
     private competition that includes a most efficient and cost 
     effective organization plan developed by such activity or 
     function;
       (2) the Competitive Sourcing Official determines that, over 
     all performance periods stated in the solicitation of offers 
     for performance of the activity or function, the cost of 
     performance of the activity or function by a contractor would 
     be less costly to the Department of Defense by an amount that 
     equals or exceeds the lesser of--
       (A) 10 percent of the most efficient organization's 
     personnel-related costs for performance of that activity or 
     function by Federal employees; or
       (B) $10,000,000; and
       (3) the contractor does not receive an advantage for a 
     proposal that would reduce costs for the Department of 
     Defense by--
       (A) not making an employer-sponsored health insurance plan 
     available to the workers who are to be employed in the 
     performance of that activity or function under the contract; 
     or
       (B) offering to such workers an employer-sponsored health 
     benefits plan that requires the employer to contribute less 
     towards the premium or subscription share than the amount 
     that is paid by the Department of Defense for health benefits 
     for civilian employees under chapter 89 of title 5, United 
     States Code.
       (b)(1) The Department of Defense, without regard to 
     subsection (a) of this section or subsection (a), (b), or (c) 
     of section 2461 of title 10, United States Code, and 
     notwithstanding any administrative regulation, requirement, 
     or policy to the contrary shall have full authority to enter 
     into a contract for the performance of any commercial or 
     industrial type function of the Department of Defense that--
       (A) is included on the procurement list established 
     pursuant to section 2 of the Javits-Wagner-O'Day Act (section 
     8503 of title 41, United States Code);
       (B) is planned to be converted to performance by a 
     qualified nonprofit agency for the blind or by a qualified 
     nonprofit agency for other severely handicapped individuals 
     in accordance with that Act; or
       (C) is planned to be converted to performance by a 
     qualified firm under at least 51 percent ownership by an 
     Indian tribe, as defined in section 4(e) of the Indian Self-
     Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 
     450b(e)), or a Native Hawaiian Organization, as defined in 
     section 8(a)(15) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
     637(a)(15)).
       (2) This section shall not apply to depot contracts or 
     contracts for depot maintenance as provided in sections 2469 
     and 2474 of title 10, United States Code.
       (c) The conversion of any activity or function of the 
     Department of Defense under the authority provided by this 
     section shall be credited toward any competitive or 
     outsourcing goal, target, or measurement that may be 
     established by statute, regulation, or policy and is deemed 
     to be awarded under the authority of, and in compliance with, 
     subsection (h) of section 2304 of title 10, United States 
     Code, for the competition or outsourcing of commercial 
     activities.

                             (rescissions)

       Sec. 8040.  Of the funds appropriated in Department of 
     Defense Appropriations Acts, the following funds are hereby 
     rescinded from the following accounts and programs in the 
     specified amounts:  Provided, That no amounts may be 
     rescinded from amounts that were designated by the Congress 
     for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
     or as an emergency requirement pursuant to the Concurrent 
     Resolution on the Budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended:
       ``Aircraft Procurement, Navy'', 2016/2018, $274,000,000;
       ``Aircraft Procurement, Air Force'', 2016/2018, 
     $82,700,000;
       ``Missile Procurement, Army'', 2017/2019, $19,319,000;
       ``Procurement of Weapons and Tracked Combat Vehicles, 
     Army'', 2017/2019, $9,764,000;
       ``Other Procurement, Army'', 2017/2019, $10,000,000;
       ``Aircraft Procurement, Navy'', 2017/2019, $105,600,000;
       ``Weapons Procurement, Navy'', 2017/2019, $54,122,000;
       ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy'', 2017/2021, 
     $45,116,000;
       ``Aircraft Procurement, Air Force'', 2017/2019, 
     $63,293,000;
       ``Missile Procurement, Air Force'', 2017/2019, $31,639,000;
       ``Space Procurement, Air Force'', 2017/2019, $15,000,000;
       ``Other Procurement, Air Force'', 2017/2019, $105,000,000;
       ``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy'', 2017/
     2018, $34,128,000;
       ``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force'', 
     2017/2018, $41,700,000;
       Sec. 8041.  None of the funds available in this Act may be 
     used to reduce the authorized positions for military 
     technicians (dual status) of the Army National Guard, Air 
     National Guard, Army Reserve and Air Force Reserve for the 
     purpose of applying any administratively imposed civilian 
     personnel ceiling, freeze, or reduction on military 
     technicians (dual status), unless such reductions are a 
     direct result of a reduction in military force structure.
       Sec. 8042.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available in this Act may be obligated or expended for 
     assistance to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea 
     unless specifically appropriated for that purpose.
       Sec. 8043.  Funds appropriated in this Act for operation 
     and maintenance of the Military Departments, Combatant 
     Commands and Defense Agencies shall be available for 
     reimbursement of pay, allowances and other expenses which 
     would otherwise be incurred against appropriations for the 
     National Guard and Reserve when members of the National Guard 
     and Reserve provide intelligence or counterintelligence 
     support to Combatant Commands, Defense Agencies and Joint 
     Intelligence Activities, including the activities and 
     programs included within the National Intelligence Program 
     and the Military Intelligence Program:  Provided, That 
     nothing in this section authorizes deviation from established 
     Reserve and National Guard personnel and training procedures.
       Sec. 8044. (a) None of the funds available to the 
     Department of Defense for any fiscal year for drug 
     interdiction or counter-drug activities may be transferred to 
     any other department or agency of the United States except as 
     specifically provided in an appropriations law.
       (b) None of the funds available to the Central Intelligence 
     Agency for any fiscal year for drug interdiction or counter-
     drug activities may be transferred to any other department or 
     agency of the United States except as specifically provided 
     in an appropriations law.

[[Page H6380]]

       Sec. 8045.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may 
     be used for the procurement of ball and roller bearings other 
     than those produced by a domestic source and of domestic 
     origin:  Provided, That the Secretary of the military 
     department responsible for such procurement may waive this 
     restriction on a case-by-case basis by certifying in writing 
     to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate, that adequate domestic 
     supplies are not available to meet Department of Defense 
     requirements on a timely basis and that such an acquisition 
     must be made in order to acquire capability for national 
     security purposes:  Provided further, That this restriction 
     shall not apply to the purchase of ``commercial items'', as 
     defined by section 103 of title 41, United States Code, 
     except that the restriction shall apply to ball or roller 
     bearings purchased as end items.
       Sec. 8046.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     for Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle service competitive 
     procurements may be used unless the competitive procurements 
     are open for award to all certified providers of Evolved 
     Expendable Launch Vehicle-class systems:  Provided, That the 
     award shall be made to the provider that offers the best 
     value to the government.
       Sec. 8047.  In addition to the amounts appropriated or 
     otherwise made available elsewhere in this Act, $44,000,000 
     is hereby appropriated to the Department of Defense:  
     Provided, That upon the determination of the Secretary of 
     Defense that it shall serve the national interest, the 
     Secretary shall make grants in the amounts specified as 
     follows: $20,000,000 to the United Service Organizations and 
     $24,000,000 to the Red Cross.
       Sec. 8048.  None of the funds in this Act may be used to 
     purchase any supercomputer which is not manufactured in the 
     United States, unless the Secretary of Defense certifies to 
     the congressional defense committees that such an acquisition 
     must be made in order to acquire capability for national 
     security purposes that is not available from United States 
     manufacturers.
       Sec. 8049.  Notwithstanding any other provision in this 
     Act, the Small Business Innovation Research program and the 
     Small Business Technology Transfer program set-asides shall 
     be taken proportionally from all programs, projects, or 
     activities to the extent they contribute to the extramural 
     budget.
       Sec. 8050.  None of the funds available to the Department 
     of Defense under this Act shall be obligated or expended to 
     pay a contractor under a contract with the Department of 
     Defense for costs of any amount paid by the contractor to an 
     employee when--
       (1) such costs are for a bonus or otherwise in excess of 
     the normal salary paid by the contractor to the employee; and
       (2) such bonus is part of restructuring costs associated 
     with a business combination.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 8051.  During the current fiscal year, no more than 
     $30,000,000 of appropriations made in this Act under the 
     heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'' may be 
     transferred to appropriations available for the pay of 
     military personnel, to be merged with, and to be available 
     for the same time period as the appropriations to which 
     transferred, to be used in support of such personnel in 
     connection with support and services for eligible 
     organizations and activities outside the Department of 
     Defense pursuant to section 2012 of title 10, United States 
     Code.
       Sec. 8052.  During the current fiscal year, in the case of 
     an appropriation account of the Department of Defense for 
     which the period of availability for obligation has expired 
     or which has closed under the provisions of section 1552 of 
     title 31, United States Code, and which has a negative 
     unliquidated or unexpended balance, an obligation or an 
     adjustment of an obligation may be charged to any current 
     appropriation account for the same purpose as the expired or 
     closed account if--
       (1) the obligation would have been properly chargeable 
     (except as to amount) to the expired or closed account before 
     the end of the period of availability or closing of that 
     account;
       (2) the obligation is not otherwise properly chargeable to 
     any current appropriation account of the Department of 
     Defense; and
       (3) in the case of an expired account, the obligation is 
     not chargeable to a current appropriation of the Department 
     of Defense under the provisions of section 1405(b)(8) of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991, 
     Public Law 101-510, as amended (31 U.S.C. 1551 note):  
     Provided, That in the case of an expired account, if 
     subsequent review or investigation discloses that there was 
     not in fact a negative unliquidated or unexpended balance in 
     the account, any charge to a current account under the 
     authority of this section shall be reversed and recorded 
     against the expired account:  Provided further, That the 
     total amount charged to a current appropriation under this 
     section may not exceed an amount equal to 1 percent of the 
     total appropriation for that account.
       Sec. 8053. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     the Chief of the National Guard Bureau may permit the use of 
     equipment of the National Guard Distance Learning Project by 
     any person or entity on a space-available, reimbursable 
     basis. The Chief of the National Guard Bureau shall establish 
     the amount of reimbursement for such use on a case-by-case 
     basis.
       (b) Amounts collected under subsection (a) shall be 
     credited to funds available for the National Guard Distance 
     Learning Project and be available to defray the costs 
     associated with the use of equipment of the project under 
     that subsection. Such funds shall be available for such 
     purposes without fiscal year limitation.
       Sec. 8054.  None of the funds available to the Department 
     of Defense may be obligated to modify command and control 
     relationships to give Fleet Forces Command operational and 
     administrative control of United States Navy forces assigned 
     to the Pacific fleet:  Provided, That the command and control 
     relationships which existed on October 1, 2004, shall remain 
     in force until a written modification has been proposed to 
     the House and Senate Appropriations Committees:  Provided 
     further, That the proposed modification may be implemented 30 
     days after the notification unless an objection is received 
     from either the House or Senate Appropriations Committees:  
     Provided further, That any proposed modification shall not 
     preclude the ability of the commander of United States 
     Pacific Command to meet operational requirements.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 8055.  Of the funds appropriated in this Act under the 
     heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'', 
     $25,000,000 shall be for continued implementation and 
     expansion of the Sexual Assault Special Victims' Counsel 
     Program:  Provided, That the funds are made available for 
     transfer to the Department of the Army, the Department of the 
     Navy, and the Department of the Air Force:  Provided further, 
     That funds transferred shall be merged with and available for 
     the same purposes and for the same time period as the 
     appropriations to which the funds are transferred:  Provided 
     further, That this transfer authority is in addition to any 
     other transfer authority provided in this Act.
       Sec. 8056.  None of the funds appropriated in title IV of 
     this Act may be used to procure end-items for delivery to 
     military forces for operational training, operational use or 
     inventory requirements:  Provided, That this restriction does 
     not apply to end-items used in development, prototyping, and 
     test activities preceding and leading to acceptance for 
     operational use:  Provided further, That this restriction 
     does not apply to programs funded within the National 
     Intelligence Program:  Provided further, That the Secretary 
     of Defense may waive this restriction on a case-by-case basis 
     by certifying in writing to the Committees on Appropriations 
     of the House of Representatives and the Senate that it is in 
     the national security interest to do so.
       Sec. 8057. (a) The Secretary of Defense may, on a case-by-
     case basis, waive with respect to a foreign country each 
     limitation on the procurement of defense items from foreign 
     sources provided in law if the Secretary determines that the 
     application of the limitation with respect to that country 
     would invalidate cooperative programs entered into between 
     the Department of Defense and the foreign country, or would 
     invalidate reciprocal trade agreements for the procurement of 
     defense items entered into under section 2531 of title 10, 
     United States Code, and the country does not discriminate 
     against the same or similar defense items produced in the 
     United States for that country.
       (b) Subsection (a) applies with respect to--
       (1) contracts and subcontracts entered into on or after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act; and
       (2) options for the procurement of items that are exercised 
     after such date under contracts that are entered into before 
     such date if the option prices are adjusted for any reason 
     other than the application of a waiver granted under 
     subsection (a).
       (c) Subsection (a) does not apply to a limitation regarding 
     construction of public vessels, ball and roller bearings, 
     food, and clothing or textile materials as defined by section 
     XI (chapters 50-65) of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the 
     United States and products classified under headings 4010, 
     4202, 4203, 6401 through 6406, 6505, 7019, 7218 through 7229, 
     7304.41 through 7304.49, 7306.40, 7502 through 7508, 8105, 
     8108, 8109, 8211, 8215, and 9404.
       Sec. 8058.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available by this or other Department of Defense 
     Appropriations Acts may be obligated or expended for the 
     purpose of performing repairs or maintenance to military 
     family housing units of the Department of Defense, including 
     areas in such military family housing units that may be used 
     for the purpose of conducting official Department of Defense 
     business.
       Sec. 8059.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     funds appropriated in this Act under the heading ``Research, 
     Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide'' for any new 
     start advanced concept technology demonstration project or 
     joint capability demonstration project may only be obligated 
     45 days after a report, including a description of the 
     project, the planned acquisition and transition strategy and 
     its estimated annual and total cost, has been provided in 
     writing to the congressional defense committees:  Provided, 
     That the Secretary of Defense may waive this restriction on a 
     case-by-case basis by certifying to the congressional defense 
     committees that it is in the national interest to do so.
       Sec. 8060.  The Secretary of Defense shall continue to 
     provide a classified quarterly report to the House and Senate 
     Appropriations Committees, Subcommittees on Defense on 
     certain matters as directed in the classified annex 
     accompanying this Act.
       Sec. 8061.  Notwithstanding section 12310(b) of title 10, 
     United States Code, a Reserve who is a member of the National 
     Guard serving on full-time National Guard duty under section 
     502(f) of title 32, United States Code, may perform duties in 
     support of the ground-based elements of the National 
     Ballistic Missile Defense System.
       Sec. 8062.  None of the funds provided in this Act may be 
     used to transfer to any nongovernmental entity ammunition 
     held by the Department of Defense that has a center-fire 
     cartridge and a United States military nomenclature 
     designation of ``armor penetrator'', ``armor piercing (AP)'', 
     ``armor piercing incendiary (API)'', or ``armor-piercing 
     incendiary tracer (API-T)'', except to an entity performing 
     demilitarization

[[Page H6381]]

     services for the Department of Defense under a contract that 
     requires the entity to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the 
     Department of Defense that armor piercing projectiles are 
     either:
       (1) rendered incapable of reuse by the demilitarization 
     process; or
       (2) used to manufacture ammunition pursuant to a contract 
     with the Department of Defense or the manufacture of 
     ammunition for export pursuant to a License for Permanent 
     Export of Unclassified Military Articles issued by the 
     Department of State.
       Sec. 8063.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
     Chief of the National Guard Bureau, or his designee, may 
     waive payment of all or part of the consideration that 
     otherwise would be required under section 2667 of title 10, 
     United States Code, in the case of a lease of personal 
     property for a period not in excess of 1 year to any 
     organization specified in section 508(d) of title 32, United 
     States Code, or any other youth, social, or fraternal 
     nonprofit organization as may be approved by the Chief of the 
     National Guard Bureau, or his designee, on a case-by-case 
     basis.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 8064.  Of the amounts appropriated in this Act under 
     the heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', $66,881,780 
     shall remain available until expended:  Provided, That, 
     notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of 
     Defense is authorized to transfer such funds to other 
     activities of the Federal Government:  Provided further, That 
     the Secretary of Defense is authorized to enter into and 
     carry out contracts for the acquisition of real property, 
     construction, personal services, and operations related to 
     projects carrying out the purposes of this section:  Provided 
     further, That contracts entered into under the authority of 
     this section may provide for such indemnification as the 
     Secretary determines to be necessary:  Provided further, That 
     projects authorized by this section shall comply with 
     applicable Federal, State, and local law to the maximum 
     extent consistent with the national security, as determined 
     by the Secretary of Defense.
       Sec. 8065. (a) None of the funds appropriated in this or 
     any other Act may be used to take any action to modify--
       (1) the appropriations account structure for the National 
     Intelligence Program budget, including through the creation 
     of a new appropriation or new appropriation account;
       (2) how the National Intelligence Program budget request is 
     presented in the unclassified P-1, R-1, and O-1 documents 
     supporting the Department of Defense budget request;
       (3) the process by which the National Intelligence Program 
     appropriations are apportioned to the executing agencies; or
       (4) the process by which the National Intelligence Program 
     appropriations are allotted, obligated and disbursed.
       (b) Nothing in section (a) shall be construed to prohibit 
     the merger of programs or changes to the National 
     Intelligence Program budget at or below the Expenditure 
     Center level, provided such change is otherwise in accordance 
     with paragraphs (a)(1)-(3).
       (c) The Director of National Intelligence and the Secretary 
     of Defense may jointly, only for the purposes of achieving 
     auditable financial statements and improving fiscal 
     reporting, study and develop detailed proposals for 
     alternative financial management processes. Such study shall 
     include a comprehensive counterintelligence risk assessment 
     to ensure that none of the alternative processes will 
     adversely affect counterintelligence.
       (d) Upon development of the detailed proposals defined 
     under subsection (c), the Director of National Intelligence 
     and the Secretary of Defense shall--
       (1) provide the proposed alternatives to all affected 
     agencies;
       (2) receive certification from all affected agencies 
     attesting that the proposed alternatives will help achieve 
     auditability, improve fiscal reporting, and will not 
     adversely affect counterintelligence; and
       (3) not later than 30 days after receiving all necessary 
     certifications under paragraph (2), present the proposed 
     alternatives and certifications to the congressional defense 
     and intelligence committees.
       Sec. 8066.  In addition to amounts provided elsewhere in 
     this Act, $5,000,000 is hereby appropriated to the Department 
     of Defense, to remain available for obligation until 
     expended:  Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision 
     of law, that upon the determination of the Secretary of 
     Defense that it shall serve the national interest, these 
     funds shall be available only for a grant to the Fisher House 
     Foundation, Inc., only for the construction and furnishing of 
     additional Fisher Houses to meet the needs of military family 
     members when confronted with the illness or hospitalization 
     of an eligible military beneficiary.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 8067.  Of the amounts appropriated in this Act under 
     the headings ``Procurement, Defense-Wide'' and ``Research, 
     Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide'', 
     $705,800,000 shall be for the Israeli Cooperative Programs:  
     Provided, That of this amount, $92,000,000 shall be for the 
     Secretary of Defense to provide to the Government of Israel 
     for the procurement of the Iron Dome defense system to 
     counter short-range rocket threats, subject to the U.S.-
     Israel Iron Dome Procurement Agreement, as amended; 
     $221,500,000 shall be for the Short Range Ballistic Missile 
     Defense (SRBMD) program, including cruise missile defense 
     research and development under the SRBMD program, of which 
     $120,000,000 shall be for co-production activities of SRBMD 
     missiles in the United States and in Israel to meet Israel's 
     defense requirements consistent with each nation's laws, 
     regulations, and procedures, subject to the U.S.-Israeli co-
     production agreement for SRBMD, as amended; $205,000,000 
     shall be for an upper-tier component to the Israeli Missile 
     Defense Architecture, of which $120,000,000 shall be for co-
     production activities of Arrow 3 Upper Tier missiles in the 
     United States and in Israel to meet Israel's defense 
     requirements consistent with each nation's laws, regulations, 
     and procedures, subject to the U.S.-Israeli co-production 
     agreement for Arrow 3 Upper Tier, as amended; $105,000,000 
     shall be for testing of the upper-tier component to the 
     Israeli Missile Defense Architecture in the United States; 
     and $82,300,000 shall be for the Arrow System Improvement 
     Program including development of a long range, ground and 
     airborne, detection suite:  Provided further, That the 
     transfer authority provided under this provision is in 
     addition to any other transfer authority contained in this 
     Act.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 8068.  Of the amounts appropriated in this Act under 
     the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy'', 
     $117,542,000 shall be available until September 30, 2018, to 
     fund prior year shipbuilding cost increases:  Provided, That 
     upon enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy shall 
     transfer funds to the following appropriations in the amounts 
     specified:  Provided further, That the amounts transferred 
     shall be merged with and be available for the same purposes 
     as the appropriations to which transferred to:
       (1) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
     Navy'', 2012/2018: Carrier Replacement Program $20,000,000;
       (2) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
     Navy'', 2008/2018: DDG-51 Destroyer $19,436,000;
       (3) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
     Navy'', 2012/2018: Littoral Combat Ship $6,394,000;
       (4) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
     Navy'', 2012/2018: LHA Replacement $14,200,000;
       (5) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
     Navy'', 2013/2018: DDG-51 Destroyer $31,941,000;
       (6) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
     Navy'', 2014/2018: Litoral Combat Ship $20,471,000; and
       (7) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
     Navy'', 2015/2018: LCAC $5,100,000.
       Sec. 8069.  Funds appropriated by this Act, or made 
     available by the transfer of funds in this Act, for 
     intelligence activities are deemed to be specifically 
     authorized by the Congress for purposes of section 504 of the 
     National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3094) during fiscal 
     year 2018 until the enactment of the Intelligence 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018.
       Sec. 8070.  None of the funds provided in this Act shall be 
     available for obligation or expenditure through a 
     reprogramming of funds that creates or initiates a new 
     program, project, or activity unless such program, project, 
     or activity must be undertaken immediately in the interest of 
     national security and only after written prior notification 
     to the congressional defense committees.
       Sec. 8071.  The budget of the President for fiscal year 
     2018 submitted to the Congress pursuant to section 1105 of 
     title 31, United States Code, shall include separate budget 
     justification documents for costs of United States Armed 
     Forces' participation in contingency operations for the 
     Military Personnel accounts, the Operation and Maintenance 
     accounts, the Procurement accounts, and the Research, 
     Development, Test and Evaluation accounts:  Provided, That 
     these documents shall include a description of the funding 
     requested for each contingency operation, for each military 
     service, to include all Active and Reserve components, and 
     for each appropriations account:  Provided further, That 
     these documents shall include estimated costs for each 
     element of expense or object class, a reconciliation of 
     increases and decreases for each contingency operation, and 
     programmatic data including, but not limited to, troop 
     strength for each Active and Reserve component, and estimates 
     of the major weapons systems deployed in support of each 
     contingency:  Provided further, That these documents shall 
     include budget exhibits OP-5 and OP-32 (as defined in the 
     Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation) for 
     all contingency operations for the budget year and the two 
     preceding fiscal years.
       Sec. 8072.  None of the funds in this Act may be used for 
     research, development, test, evaluation, procurement or 
     deployment of nuclear armed interceptors of a missile defense 
     system.
       Sec. 8073.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this 
     Act, to reflect savings due to favorable foreign exchange 
     rates, the total amount appropriated in this Act is hereby 
     reduced by $289,000,000.
       Sec. 8074.  None of the funds appropriated or made 
     available in this Act shall be used to reduce or disestablish 
     the operation of the 53rd Weather Reconnaissance Squadron of 
     the Air Force Reserve, if such action would reduce the WC-130 
     Weather Reconnaissance mission below the levels funded in 
     this Act:  Provided, That the Air Force shall allow the 53rd 
     Weather Reconnaissance Squadron to perform other missions in 
     support of national defense requirements during the non-
     hurricane season.
       Sec. 8075.  None of the funds provided in this Act shall be 
     available for integration of foreign intelligence information 
     unless the information has been lawfully collected and 
     processed during the conduct of authorized foreign 
     intelligence activities:  Provided, That information 
     pertaining to United States persons shall only be handled in 
     accordance with protections provided in the Fourth Amendment 
     of the United States Constitution as implemented through 
     Executive Order No. 12333.
       Sec. 8076. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
     may be used to transfer research and

[[Page H6382]]

     development, acquisition, or other program authority relating 
     to current tactical unmanned aerial vehicles (TUAVs) from the 
     Army.
       (b) The Army shall retain responsibility for and 
     operational control of the MQ-1C Gray Eagle Unmanned Aerial 
     Vehicle (UAV) in order to support the Secretary of Defense in 
     matters relating to the employment of unmanned aerial 
     vehicles.
       Sec. 8077.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act for 
     programs of the Office of the Director of National 
     Intelligence shall remain available for obligation beyond the 
     current fiscal year, except for funds appropriated for 
     research and technology, which shall remain available until 
     September 30, 2019.
       Sec. 8078.  For purposes of section 1553(b) of title 31, 
     United States Code, any subdivision of appropriations made in 
     this Act under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
     Navy'' shall be considered to be for the same purpose as any 
     subdivision under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
     Navy'' appropriations in any prior fiscal year, and the 1 
     percent limitation shall apply to the total amount of the 
     appropriation.
       Sec. 8079. (a) Not later than 60 days after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence 
     shall submit a report to the congressional intelligence 
     committees to establish the baseline for application of 
     reprogramming and transfer authorities for fiscal year 2018:  
     Provided, That the report shall include--
       (1) a table for each appropriation with a separate column 
     to display the President's budget request, adjustments made 
     by Congress, adjustments due to enacted rescissions, if 
     appropriate, and the fiscal year enacted level;
       (2) a delineation in the table for each appropriation by 
     Expenditure Center and project; and
       (3) an identification of items of special congressional 
     interest.
       (b) None of the funds provided for the National 
     Intelligence Program in this Act shall be available for 
     reprogramming or transfer until the report identified in 
     subsection (a) is submitted to the congressional intelligence 
     committees, unless the Director of National Intelligence 
     certifies in writing to the congressional intelligence 
     committees that such reprogramming or transfer is necessary 
     as an emergency requirement.
       Sec. 8080.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     may be used to eliminate, restructure, or realign Army 
     Contracting Command--New Jersey or make disproportionate 
     personnel reductions at any Army Contracting Command--New 
     Jersey sites without 30-day prior notification to the 
     congressional defense committees.

                              (rescission)

       Sec. 8081.  Of the unobligated balances available to the 
     Department of Defense, the following funds are permanently 
     rescinded from the following accounts and programs in the 
     specified amounts to reflect excess cash balances in the 
     Department of Defense Acquisition Workforce Development Fund:
       From ``Department of Defense Acquisition Workforce 
     Development Fund, Defense'', $10,000,000.
       Sec. 8082.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     for excess defense articles, assistance under section 333 of 
     title 10, United States Code, or peacekeeping operations for 
     the countries designated annually to be in violation of the 
     standards of the Child Soldiers Prevention Act of 2008 
     (Public Law 110-457; 22 U.S.C. 2370c-1) may be used to 
     support any military training or operation that includes 
     child soldiers, as defined by the Child Soldiers Prevention 
     Act of 2008, unless such assistance is otherwise permitted 
     under section 404 of the Child Soldiers Prevention Act of 
     2008.
       Sec. 8083. (a) None of the funds provided for the National 
     Intelligence Program in this or any prior appropriations Act 
     shall be available for obligation or expenditure through a 
     reprogramming or transfer of funds in accordance with section 
     102A(d) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
     3024(d)) that--
       (1) creates a new start effort;
       (2) terminates a program with appropriated funding of 
     $10,000,000 or more;
       (3) transfers funding into or out of the National 
     Intelligence Program; or
       (4) transfers funding between appropriations, unless the 
     congressional intelligence committees are notified 30 days in 
     advance of such reprogramming of funds; this notification 
     period may be reduced for urgent national security 
     requirements.
       (b) None of the funds provided for the National 
     Intelligence Program in this or any prior appropriations Act 
     shall be available for obligation or expenditure through a 
     reprogramming or transfer of funds in accordance with section 
     102A(d) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
     3024(d)) that results in a cumulative increase or decrease of 
     the levels specified in the classified annex accompanying the 
     Act unless the congressional intelligence committees are 
     notified 30 days in advance of such reprogramming of funds; 
     this notification period may be reduced for urgent national 
     security requirements.
       Sec. 8084.  The Director of National Intelligence shall 
     submit to Congress each year, at or about the time that the 
     President's budget is submitted to Congress that year under 
     section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, a future-
     years intelligence program (including associated annexes) 
     reflecting the estimated expenditures and proposed 
     appropriations included in that budget. Any such future-years 
     intelligence program shall cover the fiscal year with respect 
     to which the budget is submitted and at least the four 
     succeeding fiscal years.
       Sec. 8085.  For the purposes of this Act, the term 
     ``congressional intelligence committees'' means the Permanent 
     Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
     Representatives, the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
     Senate, the Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives, and the 
     Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on Appropriations of 
     the Senate.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 8086.  During the current fiscal year, not to exceed 
     $11,000,000 from each of the appropriations made in title II 
     of this Act for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', 
     ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', and ``Operation and 
     Maintenance, Air Force'' may be transferred by the military 
     department concerned to its central fund established for 
     Fisher Houses and Suites pursuant to section 2493(d) of title 
     10, United States Code.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 8087.  Not to exceed $500,000,000 appropriated by this 
     Act for operation and maintenance may be available for the 
     purpose of making remittances and transfer to the Defense 
     Acquisition Workforce Development Fund in accordance with 
     section 1705 of title 10, United States Code.
       Sec. 8088. (a) Any agency receiving funds made available in 
     this Act, shall, subject to subsections (b) and (c), post on 
     the public website of that agency any report required to be 
     submitted by the Congress in this or any other Act, upon the 
     determination by the head of the agency that it shall serve 
     the national interest.
       (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to a report if--
       (1) the public posting of the report compromises national 
     security; or
       (2) the report contains proprietary information.
       (c) The head of the agency posting such report shall do so 
     only after such report has been made available to the 
     requesting Committee or Committees of Congress for no less 
     than 45 days.
       Sec. 8089. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available by this Act may be expended for any Federal 
     contract for an amount in excess of $1,000,000, unless the 
     contractor agrees not to--
       (1) enter into any agreement with any of its employees or 
     independent contractors that requires, as a condition of 
     employment, that the employee or independent contractor agree 
     to resolve through arbitration any claim under title VII of 
     the Civil Rights Act of 1964 or any tort related to or 
     arising out of sexual assault or harassment, including 
     assault and battery, intentional infliction of emotional 
     distress, false imprisonment, or negligent hiring, 
     supervision, or retention; or
       (2) take any action to enforce any provision of an existing 
     agreement with an employee or independent contractor that 
     mandates that the employee or independent contractor resolve 
     through arbitration any claim under title VII of the Civil 
     Rights Act of 1964 or any tort related to or arising out of 
     sexual assault or harassment, including assault and battery, 
     intentional infliction of emotional distress, false 
     imprisonment, or negligent hiring, supervision, or retention.
       (b) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available by this Act may be expended for any Federal 
     contract unless the contractor certifies that it requires 
     each covered subcontractor to agree not to enter into, and 
     not to take any action to enforce any provision of, any 
     agreement as described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of 
     subsection (a), with respect to any employee or independent 
     contractor performing work related to such subcontract. For 
     purposes of this subsection, a ``covered subcontractor'' is 
     an entity that has a subcontract in excess of $1,000,000 on a 
     contract subject to subsection (a).
       (c) The prohibitions in this section do not apply with 
     respect to a contractor's or subcontractor's agreements with 
     employees or independent contractors that may not be enforced 
     in a court of the United States.
       (d) The Secretary of Defense may waive the application of 
     subsection (a) or (b) to a particular contractor or 
     subcontractor for the purposes of a particular contract or 
     subcontract if the Secretary or the Deputy Secretary 
     personally determines that the waiver is necessary to avoid 
     harm to national security interests of the United States, and 
     that the term of the contract or subcontract is not longer 
     than necessary to avoid such harm. The determination shall 
     set forth with specificity the grounds for the waiver and for 
     the contract or subcontract term selected, and shall state 
     any alternatives considered in lieu of a waiver and the 
     reasons each such alternative would not avoid harm to 
     national security interests of the United States. The 
     Secretary of Defense shall transmit to Congress, and 
     simultaneously make public, any determination under this 
     subsection not less than 15 business days before the contract 
     or subcontract addressed in the determination may be awarded.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 8090.  From within the funds appropriated for 
     operation and maintenance for the Defense Health Program in 
     this Act, up to $115,519,000, shall be available for transfer 
     to the Joint Department of Defense-Department of Veterans 
     Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund in accordance 
     with the provisions of section 1704 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010, Public Law 111-84:  
     Provided, That for purposes of section 1704(b), the facility 
     operations funded are operations of the integrated Captain 
     James A. Lovell Federal Health Care Center, consisting of the 
     North Chicago Veterans Affairs Medical Center, the Navy 
     Ambulatory Care Center, and supporting facilities designated 
     as a combined Federal medical facility as described by 
     section 706 of Public Law 110-417:  Provided further, That 
     additional funds may be transferred from funds appropriated 
     for operation and maintenance for the Defense

[[Page H6383]]

     Health Program to the Joint Department of Defense-Department 
     of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund upon 
     written notification by the Secretary of Defense to the 
     Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
     and the Senate.
       Sec. 8091.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available by this Act may be used by the Department of 
     Defense or a component thereof in contravention of the 
     provisions of section 130h of title 10, United States Code.
       Sec. 8092.  Appropriations available to the Department of 
     Defense may be used for the purchase of heavy and light 
     armored vehicles for the physical security of personnel or 
     for force protection purposes up to a limit of $450,000 per 
     vehicle, notwithstanding price or other limitations 
     applicable to the purchase of passenger carrying vehicles.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 8093.  Upon a determination by the Director of 
     National Intelligence that such action is necessary and in 
     the national interest, the Director may, with the approval of 
     the Office of Management and Budget, transfer not to exceed 
     $1,500,000,000 of the funds made available in this Act for 
     the National Intelligence Program:  Provided, That such 
     authority to transfer may not be used unless for higher 
     priority items, based on unforeseen intelligence 
     requirements, than those for which originally appropriated 
     and in no case where the item for which funds are requested 
     has been denied by the Congress:  Provided further, That a 
     request for multiple reprogrammings of funds using authority 
     provided in this section shall be made prior to June 30, 
     2017.
       Sec. 8094.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available in this or any other Act may be used to 
     transfer, release, or assist in the transfer or release to or 
     within the United States, its territories, or possessions 
     Khalid Sheikh Mohammed or any other detainee who--
       (1) is not a United States citizen or a member of the Armed 
     Forces of the United States; and
       (2) is or was held on or after June 24, 2009, at United 
     States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, by the Department 
     of Defense.
       Sec. 8095. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available in this or any other Act may be used to 
     construct, acquire, or modify any facility in the United 
     States, its territories, or possessions to house any 
     individual described in subsection (c) for the purposes of 
     detention or imprisonment in the custody or under the 
     effective control of the Department of Defense.
       (b) The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply to 
     any modification of facilities at United States Naval 
     Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
       (c) An individual described in this subsection is any 
     individual who, as of June 24, 2009, is located at United 
     States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and who--
       (1) is not a citizen of the United States or a member of 
     the Armed Forces of the United States; and
       (2) is--
       (A) in the custody or under the effective control of the 
     Department of Defense; or
       (B) otherwise under detention at United States Naval 
     Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
       Sec. 8096.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available in this Act may be used to transfer any 
     individual detained at United States Naval Station Guantanamo 
     Bay, Cuba, to the custody or control of the individual's 
     country of origin, any other foreign country, or any other 
     foreign entity except in accordance with section 1034 of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 
     (Public Law 114-92) and section 1034 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328).
       Sec. 8097.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     may be used in contravention of the War Powers Resolution (50 
     U.S.C. 1541 et seq.).
       Sec. 8098. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available by this or any other Act may be used by the 
     Secretary of Defense, or any other official or officer of the 
     Department of Defense, to enter into a contract, memorandum 
     of understanding, or cooperative agreement with, or make a 
     grant to, or provide a loan or loan guarantee to 
     Rosoboronexport or any subsidiary of Rosoboronexport.
       (b) The Secretary of Defense may waive the limitation in 
     subsection (a) if the Secretary, in consultation with the 
     Secretary of State and the Director of National Intelligence, 
     determines that it is in the vital national security interest 
     of the United States to do so, and certifies in writing to 
     the congressional defense committees that, to the best of the 
     Secretary's knowledge:
       (1) Rosoboronexport has ceased the transfer of lethal 
     military equipment to, and the maintenance of existing lethal 
     military equipment for, the Government of the Syrian Arab 
     Republic;
       (2) The armed forces of the Russian Federation have 
     withdrawn from Crimea, other than armed forces present on 
     military bases subject to agreements in force between the 
     Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of 
     Ukraine; and
       (3) Agents of the Russian Federation have ceased taking 
     active measures to destabilize the control of the Government 
     of Ukraine over eastern Ukraine.
       (c) The Inspector General of the Department of Defense 
     shall conduct a review of any action involving 
     Rosoboronexport with respect to a waiver issued by the 
     Secretary of Defense pursuant to subsection (b), and not 
     later than 90 days after the date on which such a waiver is 
     issued by the Secretary of Defense, the Inspector General 
     shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
     containing the results of the review conducted with respect 
     to such waiver.
       Sec. 8099.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
     may be used for the purchase or manufacture of a flag of the 
     United States unless such flags are treated as covered items 
     under section 2533a(b) of title 10, United States Code.
       Sec. 8100. (a) Of the funds appropriated in this Act for 
     the Department of Defense, amounts may be made available, 
     under such regulations as the Secretary of Defense may 
     prescribe, to local military commanders appointed by the 
     Secretary, or by an officer or employee designated by the 
     Secretary, to provide at their discretion ex gratia payments 
     in amounts consistent with subsection (d) of this section for 
     damage, personal injury, or death that is incident to combat 
     operations of the Armed Forces in a foreign country.
       (b) An ex gratia payment under this section may be provided 
     only if--
       (1) the prospective foreign civilian recipient is 
     determined by the local military commander to be friendly to 
     the United States;
       (2) a claim for damages would not be compensable under 
     chapter 163 of title 10, United States Code (commonly known 
     as the ``Foreign Claims Act''); and
       (3) the property damage, personal injury, or death was not 
     caused by action by an enemy.
       (c) Nature of Payments.--Any payments provided under a 
     program under subsection (a) shall not be considered an 
     admission or acknowledgement of any legal obligation to 
     compensate for any damage, personal injury, or death.
       (d) Amount of Payments.--If the Secretary of Defense 
     determines a program under subsection (a) to be appropriate 
     in a particular setting, the amounts of payments, if any, to 
     be provided to civilians determined to have suffered harm 
     incident to combat operations of the Armed Forces under the 
     program should be determined pursuant to regulations 
     prescribed by the Secretary and based on an assessment, which 
     should include such factors as cultural appropriateness and 
     prevailing economic conditions.
       (e) Legal Advice.--Local military commanders shall receive 
     legal advice before making ex gratia payments under this 
     subsection. The legal advisor, under regulations of the 
     Department of Defense, shall advise on whether an ex gratia 
     payment is proper under this section and applicable 
     Department of Defense regulations.
       (f) Written Record.--A written record of any ex gratia 
     payment offered or denied shall be kept by the local 
     commander and on a timely basis submitted to the appropriate 
     office in the Department of Defense as determined by the 
     Secretary of Defense.
       (g) Report.--The Secretary of Defense shall report to the 
     congressional defense committees on an annual basis the 
     efficacy of the ex gratia payment program including the 
     number of types of cases considered, amounts offered, the 
     response from ex gratia payment recipients, and any 
     recommended modifications to the program.
       Sec. 8101.  None of the funds available in this Act to the 
     Department of Defense, other than appropriations made for 
     necessary or routine refurbishments, upgrades or maintenance 
     activities, shall be used to reduce or to prepare to reduce 
     the number of deployed and non-deployed strategic delivery 
     vehicles and launchers below the levels set forth in the 
     report submitted to Congress in accordance with section 1042 
     of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2012.
       Sec. 8102.  The Secretary of Defense shall post grant 
     awards on a public Website in a searchable format.
       Sec. 8103.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     may be used to fund the performance of a flight demonstration 
     team at a location outside of the United States:  Provided, 
     That this prohibition applies only if a performance of a 
     flight demonstration team at a location within the United 
     States was canceled during the current fiscal year due to 
     insufficient funding.
       Sec. 8104.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     may be used by the National Security Agency to--
       (1) conduct an acquisition pursuant to section 702 of the 
     Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 for the purpose 
     of targeting a United States person; or
       (2) acquire, monitor, or store the contents (as such term 
     is defined in section 2510(8) of title 18, United States 
     Code) of any electronic communication of a United States 
     person from a provider of electronic communication services 
     to the public pursuant to section 501 of the Foreign 
     Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978.
       Sec. 8105.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     may be obligated or expended to implement the Arms Trade 
     Treaty until the Senate approves a resolution of ratification 
     for the Treaty.
       Sec. 8106.  None of the funds made available in this or any 
     other Act may be used to pay the salary of any officer or 
     employee of any agency funded by this Act who approves or 
     implements the transfer of administrative responsibilities or 
     budgetary resources of any program, project, or activity 
     financed by this Act to the jurisdiction of another Federal 
     agency not financed by this Act unless explicity provided for 
     in a Defense Appropriations Act:  Provided, That this 
     limitation shall not apply to transfers of funds expressly 
     provided for in Defense Appropriations Acts, or provisions of 
     Acts providing supplemental appropriations for the Department 
     of Defense.
       Sec. 8107.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
     may be obligated for activities authorized under section 1208 
     of the Ronald W. Reagan National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2005 (Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1621) to 
     initiate support for, or expand support to, foreign forces, 
     irregular forces, groups, or individuals unless the 
     congressional defense committees are notified in accordance 
     with the direction contained in the classified annex 
     accompanying this Act, not less than 15 days before 
     initiating such support:  Provided, That none of the funds 
     made available in this Act may be used under section 1208 for 
     any activity that is

[[Page H6384]]

     not in support of an ongoing military operation being 
     conducted by United States Special Operations Forces to 
     combat terrorism:  Provided further, That the Secretary of 
     Defense may waive the prohibitions in this section if the 
     Secretary determines that such waiver is required by 
     extraordinary circumstances and, by not later than 72 hours 
     after making such waiver, notifies the congressional defense 
     committees of such waiver.
       Sec. 8108.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     may be used with respect to Iraq in contravention of the War 
     Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1541 et seq.), including for the 
     introduction of United States armed forces into hostilities 
     in Iraq, into situations in Iraq where imminent involvement 
     in hostilities is clearly indicated by the circumstances, or 
     into Iraqi territory, airspace, or waters while equipped for 
     combat, in contravention of the congressional consultation 
     and reporting requirements of sections 3 and 4 of such 
     Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1542 and 1543).
       Sec. 8109.  None of the funds provided in this Act for the 
     T-AO Fleet Oiler or the Towing, Salvage, and Rescue Ship 
     programs shall be used to award a new contract that provides 
     for the acquisition of the following components unless those 
     components are manufactured in the United States: Auxiliary 
     equipment (including pumps) for shipboard services; 
     propulsion equipment (including engines, reduction gears, and 
     propellers); shipboard cranes; and spreaders for shipboard 
     cranes.
       Sec. 8110.  The amount appropriated in title II of this Act 
     for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'' is hereby reduced by 
     $75,000,000 to reflect excess cash balances in Department of 
     Defense Working Capital Funds.
       Sec. 8111.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this 
     Act, to reflect savings due to lower than anticipated fuel 
     costs, the total amount appropriated in title II of this Act 
     is hereby reduced by $1,007,267,000.
       Sec. 8112.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     may be used for Government Travel Charge Card expenses by 
     military or civilian personnel of the Department of Defense 
     for gaming, or for entertainment that includes topless or 
     nude entertainers or participants, as prohibited by 
     Department of Defense FMR, Volume 9, Chapter 3 and Department 
     of Defense Instruction 1015.10 (enclosure 3, 14a and 14b).
       Sec. 8113.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     may be used to propose, plan for, or execute a new or 
     additional Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) round.
       Sec. 8114.  Of the amounts appropriated in this Act for 
     ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', $289,255,000, to remain 
     available until expended, may be used for any purposes 
     related to the National Defense Reserve Fleet established 
     under section 11 of the Merchant Ship Sales Act of 1946 (50 
     U.S.C. 4405):  Provided, That such amounts are available for 
     reimbursements to the Ready Reserve Force, Maritime 
     Administration account of the United States Department of 
     Transportation for programs, projects, activities, and 
     expenses related to the National Defense Reserve Fleet.
       Sec. 8115.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     for the Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System 
     recapitalization program may be obligated or expended for 
     pre-milestone B activities after March 31, 2018, except for 
     source selection and other activities necessary to enter the 
     engineering and manufacturing development phase.
       Sec. 8116.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     may be used to carry out the closure or realignment of the 
     United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 8117.  Additional readiness funds made available in 
     title II of this Act for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', 
     ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', ``Operation and 
     Maintenance, Marine Corps'', and ``Operation and Maintenance, 
     Air Force'' may be transferred to and merged with any 
     appropriation of the Department of Defense for activities 
     related to the Zika virus in order to provide health support 
     for the full range of military operations and sustain the 
     health of the members of the Armed Forces, civilian employees 
     of the Department of Defense, and their families, to include: 
     research and development, disease surveillance, vaccine 
     development, rapid detection, vector controls and 
     surveillance, training, and outbreak response:  Provided, 
     That the authority provided in this section is subject to the 
     same terms and conditions as the authority provided in 
     section 8005 of this Act.
       Sec. 8118. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act 
     may be used to maintain or establish a computer network 
     unless such network is designed to block access to 
     pornography websites.
       (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
     necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law 
     enforcement agency or any other entity carrying out criminal 
     investigations, prosecution, or adjudication activities, or 
     for any activity necessary for the national defense, 
     including intelligence activities.
       Sec. 8119.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any 
     transfer of funds appropriated or otherwise made available by 
     this Act to the Global Engagement Center pursuant to section 
     1287 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328) shall be made in accordance 
     with section 8005 or 9002 of this Act, as applicable.
       Sec. 8120.  No amounts credited or otherwise made available 
     in this or any other Act to the Department of Defense 
     Acquisition Workforce Development Fund may be transferred to:
       (1) the Rapid Prototyping Fund established under section 
     804(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2016 (10 U.S.C. 2302 note); or
       (2) credited to a military-department specific fund 
     established under section 804(d)(2) of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (as amended by section 
     897 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2017).

                       (including transfer fund)

       Sec. 8121.  In addition to amounts provided elsewhere in 
     this Act for military personnel pay, including active duty, 
     reserve and National Guard personnel, $206,400,000 is hereby 
     appropriated to the Department of Defense and made available 
     for transfer only to military personnel accounts: Provided, 
     That the transfer authority provided under this heading is in 
     addition to any other transfer authority provided elsewhere 
     in this Act.
       Sec. 8122.  In addition to amounts provided elsewhere in 
     this Act, there is appropriated $235,000,000, for an 
     additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-
     Wide'', to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
     such funds shall only be available to the Secretary of 
     Defense, acting through the Office of Economic Adjustment of 
     the Department of Defense, or for transfer to the Secretary 
     of Education, notwithstanding any other provision of law, to 
     make grants, conclude cooperative agreements, or supplement 
     other Federal funds to construct, renovate, repair, or expand 
     elementary and secondary public schools on military 
     installations in order to address capacity or facility 
     condition deficiencies at such schools: Provided further, 
     That in making such funds available, the Office of Economic 
     Adjustment or the Secretary of Education shall give priority 
     consideration to those military installations with schools 
     having the most serious capacity or facility condition 
     deficiencies as determined by the Secretary of Defense: 
     Provided further, That as a condition of receiving funds 
     under this section a local educational agency or State shall 
     provide a matching share as described in the notice titled 
     ``Department of Defense Program for Construction, Renovation, 
     Repair or Expansion of Public Schools Located on Military 
     Installations'' published by the Department of Defense in the 
     Federal Register on September 9, 2011 (76 Fed. Reg. 55883 et 
     seq.): Provided further, That these provisions apply to funds 
     provided under this section, and to funds previously provided 
     by Congress to construct, renovate, repair, or expand 
     elementary and secondary public schools on military 
     installations in order to address capacity or facility 
     condition deficiencies at such schools to the extent such 
     funds remain unobligated on the date of enactment of this 
     section.
       Sec. 8123.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     may be used to carry out the changes to the Joint Travel 
     Regulations of the Department of Defense described in the 
     memorandum of the Per Diem Travel and Transportation 
     Allowance Committee titled ``UTD/CTD for MAP 118-13/CAP 118-
     13 - Flat Rate Per Diem for Long Term TDY'' and dated October 
     1, 2014.
       Sec. 8124.  In carrying out the program described in the 
     memorandum on the subject of ``Policy for Assisted 
     Reproductive Services for the Benefit of Seriously or 
     Severely Ill/Injured (Category II or III) Active Duty Service 
     Members'' issued by the Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
     Health Affairs on April 3, 2012, and the guidance issued to 
     implement such memorandum, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     apply such policy and guidance, except that--
       (1) the limitation on periods regarding embryo 
     cryopreservation and storage set forth in part III(G) and in 
     part IV(H) of such memorandum shall not apply; and
       (2) the term ``assisted reproductive technology'' shall 
     include embryo cryopreservation and storage without 
     limitation on the duration of such cryopreservation and 
     storage.

                                TITLE IX

        OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS/GLOBAL WAR ON TERRORISM

                           MILITARY PERSONNEL

                        Military Personnel, Army

       For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Army'', 
     $2,635,317,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by 
     the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War 
     on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                        Military Personnel, Navy

       For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Navy'', 
     $377,857,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by 
     the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War 
     on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                    Military Personnel, Marine Corps

       For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Marine 
     Corps'', $103,800,000:  Provided, That such amount is 
     designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

                     Military Personnel, Air Force

       For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Air 
     Force'', $912,779,000:  Provided, That such amount is 
     designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

                        Reserve Personnel, Army

       For an additional amount for ``Reserve Personnel, Army'', 
     $24,942,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
     Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
     Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

[[Page H6385]]

  


                        Reserve Personnel, Navy

       For an additional amount for ``Reserve Personnel, Navy'', 
     $9,091,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
     Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
     Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                    Reserve Personnel, Marine Corps

       For an additional amount for ``Reserve Personnel, Marine 
     Corps'', $2,328,000:  Provided, That such amount is 
     designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

                      Reserve Personnel, Air Force

       For an additional amount for ``Reserve Personnel, Air 
     Force'', $20,569,000:  Provided, That such amount is 
     designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

                     National Guard Personnel, Army

       For an additional amount for ``National Guard Personnel, 
     Army'', $184,589,000:  Provided, That such amount is 
     designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

                  National Guard Personnel, Air Force

       For an additional amount for ``National Guard Personnel, 
     Air Force'', $5,004,000:  Provided, That such amount is 
     designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

         Military Personnel, National Defense Restoration Fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

       In addition to amounts provided elsewhere in this Act, 
     there is appropriated $1,000,000,000, for the ``Military 
     Personnel, National Defense Restoration Fund'': Provided, 
     That such funds provided under this heading shall only be 
     available for programs, projects and activities necessary to 
     implement the 2018 National Defense Strategy: Provided 
     further, That such funds shall not be available for transfer 
     until 30 days after the Secretary has submitted, and the 
     congressional defense committees have approved, the proposed 
     allocation plan for the use of such funds to implement such 
     strategy: Provided further, That such allocation plan shall 
     include a detailed justification for the use of such funds 
     and a description of how such investments are necessary to 
     implement the strategy: Provided further, That the Secretary 
     of Defense may transfer these funds only to military 
     personnel accounts: Provided further, That the funds 
     transferred shall be merged with and shall be available for 
     the same purposes and for the same time period, as the 
     appropriation to which transferred: Provided further, That 
     none of the funds made available under this heading may be 
     transferred to any program, project, or activity specifically 
     limited or denied by this Act: Provided further, That the 
     transfer authority provided under this heading is in addition 
     to any other transfer authority available to the Department 
     of Defense: Provided further, That such amount is designated 
     by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global 
     War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                       OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                    Operation and Maintenance, Army

       For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, 
     Army'', $16,126,403,000:  Provided, That such amount is 
     designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

                    Operation and Maintenance, Navy

       For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, 
     Navy'', $5,875,015,000, of which up to $161,885,000 may be 
     transferred to the Coast Guard ``Operating Expenses'' 
     account:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
     Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
     Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps

       For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, 
     Marine Corps'', $1,116,640,000:  Provided, That such amount 
     is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

                  Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

       For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, 
     Air Force'', $10,266,295,000:  Provided, That such amount is 
     designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

                Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

       For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, 
     Defense-Wide'', $6,944,201,000:  Provided, That of the funds 
     provided under this heading, not to exceed $900,000,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2019, shall be for 
     payments to reimburse key cooperating nations for logistical, 
     military, and other support, including access, provided to 
     United States military and stability operations in 
     Afghanistan and to counter the Islamic State of Iraq and the 
     Levant: Provided further, That such reimbursement payments 
     may be made in such amounts as the Secretary of Defense, with 
     the concurrence of the Secretary of State, and in 
     consultation with the Director of the Office of Management 
     and Budget, may determine, based on documentation determined 
     by the Secretary of Defense to adequately account for the 
     support provided, and such determination is final and 
     conclusive upon the accounting officers of the United States, 
     and 15 days following notification to the appropriate 
     congressional committees: Provided further, That funds 
     provided under this heading may be used for the purpose of 
     providing specialized training and procuring supplies and 
     specialized equipment and providing such supplies and loaning 
     such equipment on a non-reimbursable basis to coalition 
     forces supporting United States military and stability 
     operations in Afghanistan and to counter the Islamic State of 
     Iraq and the Levant, and 15 days following notification to 
     the appropriate congressional committees:  Provided further, 
     That funds provided under this heading may be used to support 
     the Government of Jordan, in such amounts as the Secretary of 
     Defense may determine, to enhance the ability of the armed 
     forces of Jordan to increase or sustain security along its 
     borders, upon 15 days prior written notification to the 
     congressional defense committees outlining the amounts 
     intended to be provided and the nature of the expenses 
     incurred: Provided further, That of the funds provided under 
     this heading, not to exceed $750,000,000, to remain available 
     until September 30, 2019, shall be available to provide 
     support and assistance to foreign security forces or other 
     groups or individuals to conduct, support, or facilitate 
     counterterrorism, crisis response, or other Department of 
     Defense security cooperation programs: Provided further, That 
     such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas 
     Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
     section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                Operation and Maintenance, Army Reserve

       For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, 
     Army Reserve'', $24,699,000:  Provided, That such amount is 
     designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

                Operation and Maintenance, Navy Reserve

       For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, 
     Navy Reserve'', $23,980,000:  Provided, That such amount is 
     designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

            Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps Reserve

       For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, 
     Marine Corps Reserve'', $3,367,000:  Provided, That such 
     amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

              Operation and Maintenance, Air Force Reserve

       For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, 
     Air Force Reserve'', $58,523,000:  Provided, That such amount 
     is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

             Operation and Maintenance, Army National Guard

       For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, 
     Army National Guard'', $108,111,000:  Provided, That such 
     amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

             Operation and Maintenance, Air National Guard

       For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, 
     Air National Guard'', $15,400,000:  Provided, That such 
     amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

      Operation and Maintenance, National Defense Restoration Fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

       In addition to amounts provided elsewhere in this Act, 
     there is appropriated $2,000,000,000, for the ``Operation and 
     Maintenance, National Defense Restoration Fund'': Provided, 
     That such funds provided under this heading shall only be 
     available for programs, projects and activities necessary to 
     implement the 2018 National Defense Strategy: Provided 
     further, That such funds shall not be available for transfer 
     until 30 days after the Secretary has submitted, and the 
     congressional defense committees have approved, the proposed 
     allocation plan for the use of such funds to implement such 
     strategy: Provided further, That such allocation plan shall 
     include a detailed justification for the use of such funds 
     and a description of how such investments are necessary to 
     implement the strategy: Provided further, That the Secretary 
     of Defense may transfer these funds only to operation and 
     maintenance accounts: Provided further, That the funds 
     transferred shall be merged with and shall be available for 
     the same purposes and for the same time period, as the 
     appropriation to which transferred: Provided further, That 
     none of the funds made available under this heading may be 
     transferred to any program, project, or activity specifically 
     limited or denied

[[Page H6386]]

     by this Act: Provided further, That the transfer authority 
     provided under this heading is in addition to any other 
     transfer authority available to the Department of Defense: 
     Provided further, That such amount is designated by the 
     Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
     Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                    Afghanistan Security Forces Fund

       For the ``Afghanistan Security Forces Fund'', 
     $4,937,515,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019: 
      Provided, That such funds shall be available to the 
     Secretary of Defense, notwithstanding any other provision of 
     law, for the purpose of allowing the Commander, Combined 
     Security Transition Command--Afghanistan, or the Secretary's 
     designee, to provide assistance, with the concurrence of the 
     Secretary of State, to the security forces of Afghanistan, 
     including the provision of equipment, supplies, services, 
     training, facility and infrastructure repair, renovation, 
     construction, and funding:  Provided further, That the 
     Secretary of Defense may obligate and expend funds made 
     available to the Department of Defense in this title for 
     additional costs associated with existing projects previously 
     funded with amounts provided under the heading ``Afghanistan 
     Infrastructure Fund'' in prior Acts:  Provided further, That 
     such costs shall be limited to contract changes resulting 
     from inflation, market fluctuation, rate adjustments, and 
     other necessary contract actions to complete existing 
     projects, and associated supervision and administration costs 
     and costs for design during construction:  Provided further, 
     That the Secretary may not use more than $50,000,000 under 
     the authority provided in this section:  Provided further, 
     That the Secretary shall notify in advance such contract 
     changes and adjustments in annual reports to the 
     congressional defense committees:  Provided further, That the 
     authority to provide assistance under this heading is in 
     addition to any other authority to provide assistance to 
     foreign nations:  Provided further, That contributions of 
     funds for the purposes provided herein from any person, 
     foreign government, or international organization may be 
     credited to this Fund, to remain available until expended, 
     and used for such purposes:  Provided further, That the 
     Secretary of Defense shall notify the congressional defense 
     committees in writing upon the receipt and upon the 
     obligation of any contribution, delineating the sources and 
     amounts of the funds received and the specific use of such 
     contributions:  Provided further, That the Secretary of 
     Defense shall, not fewer than 15 days prior to obligating 
     from this appropriation account, notify the congressional 
     defense committees in writing of the details of any such 
     obligation:  Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense 
     shall notify the congressional defense committees of any 
     proposed new projects or transfer of funds between budget 
     sub-activity groups in excess of $20,000,000:  Provided 
     further, That the United States may accept equipment procured 
     using funds provided under this heading in this or prior Acts 
     that was transferred to the security forces of Afghanistan 
     and returned by such forces to the United States:  Provided 
     further, That equipment procured using funds provided under 
     this heading in this or prior Acts, and not yet transferred 
     to the security forces of Afghanistan or transferred to the 
     security forces of Afghanistan and returned by such forces to 
     the United States, may be treated as stocks of the Department 
     of Defense upon written notification to the congressional 
     defense committees:  Provided further, That of the funds 
     provided under this heading, not less than $10,000,000 shall 
     be for recruitment and retention of women in the Afghanistan 
     National Security Forces, and the recruitment and training of 
     female security personnel:  Provided further, That such 
     amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

                   Counter-ISIL Train and Equip Fund

       For the ``Counter-Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant 
     Train and Equip Fund'', $1,769,000,000, to remain available 
     until September 30, 2019: Provided, That such funds shall be 
     available to the Secretary of Defense in coordination with 
     the Secretary of State, to provide assistance, including 
     training; equipment; logistics support, supplies, and 
     services; stipends; infrastructure repair and renovation; and 
     sustainment, to foreign security forces, irregular forces, 
     groups, or individuals participating, or preparing to 
     participate in activities to counter the Islamic State of 
     Iraq and the Levant, and their affiliated or associated 
     groups: Provided further, That these funds may be used in 
     such amounts as the Secretary of Defense may determine to 
     enhance the border security of nations adjacent to conflict 
     areas including Jordan, Lebanon, Egypt, and Tunisia resulting 
     from actions of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant: 
     Provided further, That amounts made available under this 
     heading shall be available to provide assistance only for 
     activities in a country designated by the Secretary of 
     Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State, as 
     having a security mission to counter the Islamic State of 
     Iraq and the Levant, and following written notification to 
     the congressional defense committees of such designation:  
     Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense shall ensure 
     that prior to providing assistance to elements of any forces 
     or individuals, such elements or individuals are 
     appropriately vetted, including at a minimum, assessing such 
     elements for associations with terrorist groups or groups 
     associated with the Government of Iran; and receiving 
     commitments from such elements to promote respect for human 
     rights and the rule of law: Provided further, That the 
     Secretary of Defense shall, not fewer than 15 days prior to 
     obligating from this appropriation account, notify the 
     congressional defense committees in writing of the details of 
     any such obligation: Provided further, That the Secretary of 
     Defense may accept and retain contributions, including 
     assistance in-kind, from foreign governments, including the 
     Government of Iraq and other entities, to carry out 
     assistance authorized under this heading: Provided further, 
     That contributions of funds for the purposes provided herein 
     from any foreign government or other entity may be credited 
     to this Fund, to remain available until expended, and used 
     for such purposes: Provided further, That the Secretary of 
     Defense may waive a provision of law relating to the 
     acquisition of items and support services or sections 40 and 
     40A of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2780 and 2785) 
     if the Secretary determines that such provision of law would 
     prohibit, restrict, delay or otherwise limit the provision of 
     such assistance and a notice of and justification for such 
     waiver is submitted to the congressional defense committees, 
     the Committees on Appropriations and Foreign Relations of the 
     Senate and the Committees on Appropriations and Foreign 
     Affairs of the House of Representatives: Provided further, 
     That the United States may accept equipment procured using 
     funds provided under this heading, or under the heading, 
     ``Iraq Train and Equip Fund'' in prior Acts, that was 
     transferred to security forces, irregular forces, or groups 
     participating, or preparing to participate in activities to 
     counter the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant and returned 
     by such forces or groups to the United States, may be treated 
     as stocks of the Department of Defense upon written 
     notification to the congressional defense committees: 
     Provided further, That equipment procured using funds 
     provided under this heading, or under the heading, ``Iraq 
     Train and Equip Fund'' in prior Acts, and not yet transferred 
     to security forces, irregular forces, or groups 
     participating, or preparing to participate in activities to 
     counter the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant may be 
     treated as stocks of the Department of Defense when 
     determined by the Secretary to no longer be required for 
     transfer to such forces or groups and upon written 
     notification to the congressional defense committees: 
     Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense shall provide 
     quarterly reports to the congressional defense committees on 
     the use of funds provided under this heading, including, but 
     not limited to, the number of individuals trained, the nature 
     and scope of support and sustainment provided to each group 
     or individual, the area of operations for each group, and the 
     contributions of other countries, groups, or individuals: 
     Provided further, That such amount is designated by the 
     Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/ Global War on 
     Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                              PROCUREMENT

                       Aircraft Procurement, Army

       For an additional amount for ``Aircraft Procurement, 
     Army'', $424,686,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2020:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
     Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
     Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                       Missile Procurement, Army

       For an additional amount for ``Missile Procurement, Army'', 
     $557,583,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020:  
     Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
     Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
     pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
     and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

        Procurement of Weapons and Tracked Combat Vehicles, Army

       For an additional amount for ``Procurement of Weapons and 
     Tracked Combat Vehicles, Army'', $1,191,139,000, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2020:  Provided, That such 
     amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

                    Procurement of Ammunition, Army

       For an additional amount for ``Procurement of Ammunition, 
     Army'', $193,436,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2020:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
     Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
     Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                        Other Procurement, Army

       For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Army'', 
     $405,575,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020:  
     Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
     Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
     pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
     and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                       Aircraft Procurement, Navy

       For an additional amount for ``Aircraft Procurement, 
     Navy'', $157,300,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2020:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
     Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
     Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                       Weapons Procurement, Navy

       For an additional amount for ``Weapons Procurement, Navy'', 
     $130,994,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020:  
     Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
     Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War

[[Page H6387]]

     on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

            Procurement of Ammunition, Navy and Marine Corps

       For an additional amount for ``Procurement of Ammunition, 
     Navy and Marine Corps'', $223,843,000, to remain available 
     until September 30, 2020:  Provided, That such amount is 
     designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

                        Other Procurement, Navy

       For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Navy'', 
     $207,984,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020:  
     Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
     Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
     pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
     and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                       Procurement, Marine Corps

       For an additional amount for ``Procurement, Marine Corps'', 
     $64,071,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020:  
     Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
     Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
     pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
     and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                    Aircraft Procurement, Air Force

       For an additional amount for ``Aircraft Procurement, Air 
     Force'', $510,836,000, to remain available until September 
     30, 2020:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
     Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
     Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     Missile Procurement, Air Force

       For an additional amount for ``Missile Procurement, Air 
     Force'', $381,700,000, to remain available until September 
     30, 2020:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
     Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
     Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                      Space Procurement, Air Force

       For an additional amount for "Space Procurement, Air Force 
     ", $2,256,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020: 
     Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
     Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
     pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
     and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                  Procurement of Ammunition, Air Force

       For an additional amount for ``Procurement of Ammunition, 
     Air Force'', $501,509,000, to remain available until 
     September 30, 2020:  Provided, That such amount is designated 
     by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global 
     War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                      Other Procurement, Air Force

       For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Air 
     Force'', $3,998,887,000, to remain available until September 
     30, 2020:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
     Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
     Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                       Procurement, Defense-Wide

       For an additional amount for ``Procurement, Defense-Wide'', 
     $510,741,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020:  
     Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
     Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
     pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
     and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

              National Guard and Reserve Equipment Account

       For procurement of rotary-wing aircraft; combat, tactical 
     and support vehicles; other weapons; and other procurement 
     items for the reserve components of the Armed Forces, 
     $1,000,000,000, to remain available for obligation until 
     September 30, 2020:  Provided, That the Chiefs of National 
     Guard and Reserve components shall, not later than 30 days 
     after enactment of this Act, individually submit to the 
     congressional defense committees the modernization priority 
     assessment for their respective National Guard or Reserve 
     component:  Provided further, That none of the funds made 
     available by this paragraph may be used to procure manned 
     fixed wing aircraft, or procure or modify missiles, 
     munitions, or ammunition:  Provided further, That such amount 
     is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

             Procurement, National Defense Restoration Fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

       In addition to amounts provided elsewhere in this Act, 
     there is appropriated $6,000,000,000, for the ``Procurement, 
     National Defense Restoration Fund'': Provided, That such 
     funds provided under this heading shall only be available for 
     programs, projects and activities necessary to implement the 
     2018 National Defense Strategy: Provided further, That such 
     funds shall not be available for transfer until 30 days after 
     the Secretary has submitted, and the congressional defense 
     committees have approved, the proposed allocation plan for 
     the use of such funds to implement such strategy: Provided 
     further, That such allocation plan shall include a detailed 
     justification for the use of such funds and a description of 
     how such investments are necessary to implement the strategy: 
     Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense may transfer 
     these funds only to procurement accounts: Provided further, 
     That the funds transferred shall be merged with and shall be 
     available for the same purposes and for the same time period, 
     as the appropriation to which transferred: Provided further, 
     That none of the funds made available under this heading may 
     be transferred to any program, project, or activity 
     specifically limited or denied by this Act: Provided further, 
     That the transfer authority provided under this heading is in 
     addition to any other transfer authority available to the 
     Department of Defense: Provided further, That such amount is 
     designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

               RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army

       For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test 
     and Evaluation, Army'', $119,368,000, to remain available 
     until September 30, 2019:  Provided, That such amount is 
     designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy

       For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test 
     and Evaluation, Navy'', $124,865,000, to remain available 
     until September 30, 2019:  Provided, That such amount is 
     designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

         Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force

       For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test 
     and Evaluation, Air Force'', $144,508,000, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2019:  Provided, That such 
     amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

        Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide

       For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test 
     and Evaluation, Defense-Wide'', $226,096,000, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2019:  Provided, That such 
     amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

     Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, National Defense 
                            Restoration Fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

       In addition to amounts provided elsewhere in this Act, 
     there is appropriated $1,000,000,000, for the ``Research, 
     Development, Test and Evaluation, National Defense 
     Restoration Fund'': Provided, That such funds provided under 
     this heading shall only be available for programs, projects 
     and activities necessary to implement the 2018 National 
     Defense Strategy: Provided further, That such funds shall not 
     be available for transfer until 30 days after the Secretary 
     has submitted, and the congressional defense committees have 
     approved, the proposed allocation plan for the use of such 
     funds to implement such strategy: Provided further, That such 
     allocation plan shall include a detailed justification for 
     the use of such funds and a description of how such 
     investments are necessary to implement the strategy: Provided 
     further, That the Secretary of Defense may transfer these 
     funds only to research, development, test and evaluation 
     accounts: Provided further, That the funds transferred shall 
     be merged with and shall be available for the same purposes 
     and for the same time period, as the appropriation to which 
     transferred: Provided further, That none of the funds made 
     available under this heading may be transferred to any 
     program, project, or activity specifically limited or denied 
     by this Act: Provided further, That the transfer authority 
     provided under this heading is in addition to any other 
     transfer authority available to the Department of Defense: 
     Provided further, That such amount is designated by the 
     Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
     Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     REVOLVING AND MANAGEMENT FUNDS

                     Defense Working Capital Funds

       For an additional amount for ``Defense Working Capital 
     Funds'', $148,956,000:  Provided, That such amount is 
     designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

                  OTHER DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROGRAMS

                         Defense Health Program

       For an additional amount for ``Defense Health Program'', 
     $395,805,000, which shall be for operation and maintenance:  
     Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
     Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
     pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii)

[[Page H6388]]

     of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
     1985.

         Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense

       For an additional amount for ``Drug Interdiction and 
     Counter-Drug Activities, Defense'', $196,300,000:  Provided, 
     That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas 
     Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
     section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                  Joint Improvised-Threat Defeat Fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For the ``Joint Improvised-Threat Defeat Fund'', 
     $483,058,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020:  
     Provided, That such funds shall be available to the Secretary 
     of Defense, notwithstanding any other provision of law, for 
     the purpose of allowing the Director of the Joint Improvised-
     Threat Defeat Organization to investigate, develop and 
     provide equipment, supplies, services, training, facilities, 
     personnel and funds to assist United States forces in the 
     defeat of improvised explosive devices:  Provided further, 
     That the Secretary of Defense may transfer funds provided 
     herein to appropriations for military personnel; operation 
     and maintenance; procurement; research, development, test and 
     evaluation; and defense working capital funds to accomplish 
     the purpose provided herein:  Provided further, That this 
     transfer authority is in addition to any other transfer 
     authority available to the Department of Defense:  Provided 
     further, That the Secretary of Defense shall, not fewer than 
     5 days prior to making transfers from this appropriation, 
     notify the congressional defense committees in writing of the 
     details of any such transfer:  Provided further, That such 
     amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

                    Office of the Inspector General

       For an additional amount for the ``Office of the Inspector 
     General'', $24,692,000:  Provided, That such amount is 
     designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

                     GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS TITLE

       Sec. 9001.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     funds made available in this title are in addition to amounts 
     appropriated or otherwise made available for the Department 
     of Defense for fiscal year 2018.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 9002.  Upon the determination of the Secretary of 
     Defense that such action is necessary in the national 
     interest, the Secretary may, with the approval of the Office 
     of Management and Budget, transfer up to $2,500,000,000 
     between the appropriations or funds made available to the 
     Department of Defense in this title:  Provided, That the 
     Secretary shall notify the Congress promptly of each transfer 
     made pursuant to the authority in this section:  Provided 
     further, That the authority provided in this section is in 
     addition to any other transfer authority available to the 
     Department of Defense and is subject to the same terms and 
     conditions as the authority provided in section 8005 of this 
     Act.
       Sec. 9003.  Supervision and administration costs and costs 
     for design during construction associated with a construction 
     project funded with appropriations available for operation 
     and maintenance or the ``Afghanistan Security Forces Fund'' 
     provided in this Act and executed in direct support of 
     overseas contingency operations in Afghanistan, may be 
     obligated at the time a construction contract is awarded:  
     Provided, That, for the purpose of this section, supervision 
     and administration costs and costs for design during 
     construction include all in-house Government costs.
       Sec. 9004.  From funds made available in this title, the 
     Secretary of Defense may purchase for use by military and 
     civilian employees of the Department of Defense in the United 
     States Central Command area of responsibility:
       (1) passenger motor vehicles up to a limit of $75,000 per 
     vehicle; and
       (2) heavy and light armored vehicles for the physical 
     security of personnel or for force protection purposes up to 
     a limit of $450,000 per vehicle, notwithstanding price or 
     other limitations applicable to the purchase of passenger 
     carrying vehicles.
       Sec. 9005.  Not to exceed $5,000,000 of the amounts 
     appropriated by this title under the heading ``Operation and 
     Maintenance, Army'' may be used, notwithstanding any other 
     provision of law, to fund the Commanders' Emergency Response 
     Program (CERP), for the purpose of enabling military 
     commanders in Afghanistan to respond to urgent, small-scale, 
     humanitarian relief and reconstruction requirements within 
     their areas of responsibility:  Provided, That each project 
     (including any ancillary or related elements in connection 
     with such project) executed under this authority shall not 
     exceed $2,000,000:  Provided further, That not later than 45 
     days after the end of each 6 months of the fiscal year, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
     defense committees a report regarding the source of funds and 
     the allocation and use of funds during that 6-month period 
     that were made available pursuant to the authority provided 
     in this section or under any other provision of law for the 
     purposes described herein:  Provided further, That, not later 
     than 30 days after the end of each fiscal year quarter, the 
     Army shall submit to the congressional defense committees 
     quarterly commitment, obligation, and expenditure data for 
     the CERP in Afghanistan:  Provided further, That, not less 
     than 15 days before making funds available pursuant to the 
     authority provided in this section or under any other 
     provision of law for the purposes described herein for a 
     project with a total anticipated cost for completion of 
     $500,000 or more, the Secretary shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees a written notice containing 
     each of the following:
       (1) The location, nature and purpose of the proposed 
     project, including how the project is intended to advance the 
     military campaign plan for the country in which it is to be 
     carried out.
       (2) The budget, implementation timeline with milestones, 
     and completion date for the proposed project, including any 
     other CERP funding that has been or is anticipated to be 
     contributed to the completion of the project.
       (3) A plan for the sustainment of the proposed project, 
     including the agreement with either the host nation, a non-
     Department of Defense agency of the United States Government 
     or a third-party contributor to finance the sustainment of 
     the activities and maintenance of any equipment or facilities 
     to be provided through the proposed project.
       Sec. 9006.  Funds available to the Department of Defense 
     for operation and maintenance may be used, notwithstanding 
     any other provision of law, to provide supplies, services, 
     transportation, including airlift and sealift, and other 
     logistical support to allied forces participating in a 
     combined operation with the armed forces of the United States 
     and coalition forces supporting military and stability 
     operations in Afghanistan and to counter the Islamic State of 
     Iraq and the Levant:  Provided, That the Secretary of Defense 
     shall provide quarterly reports to the congressional defense 
     committees regarding support provided under this section.
       Sec. 9007.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available by this or any other Act shall be obligated or 
     expended by the United States Government for a purpose as 
     follows:
       (1) To establish any military installation or base for the 
     purpose of providing for the permanent stationing of United 
     States Armed Forces in Iraq.
       (2) To exercise United States control over any oil resource 
     of Iraq.
       (3) To establish any military installation or base for the 
     purpose of providing for the permanent stationing of United 
     States Armed Forces in Afghanistan.
       Sec. 9008.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
     may be used in contravention of the following laws enacted or 
     regulations promulgated to implement the United Nations 
     Convention Against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or 
     Degrading Treatment or Punishment (done at New York on 
     December 10, 1984):
       (1) Section 2340A of title 18, United States Code.
       (2) Section 2242 of the Foreign Affairs Reform and 
     Restructuring Act of 1998 (division G of Public Law 105-277; 
     112 Stat. 2681-822; 8 U.S.C. 1231 note) and regulations 
     prescribed thereto, including regulations under part 208 of 
     title 8, Code of Federal Regulations, and part 95 of title 
     22, Code of Federal Regulations.
       (3) Sections 1002 and 1003 of the Department of Defense, 
     Emergency Supplemental Appropriations to Address Hurricanes 
     in the Gulf of Mexico, and Pandemic Influenza Act, 2006 
     (Public Law 109-148).
       Sec. 9009.  None of the funds provided for the 
     ``Afghanistan Security Forces Fund'' (ASFF) may be obligated 
     prior to the approval of a financial and activity plan by the 
     Afghanistan Resources Oversight Council (AROC) of the 
     Department of Defense:  Provided, That the AROC must approve 
     the requirement and acquisition plan for any service 
     requirements in excess of $50,000,000 annually and any non-
     standard equipment requirements in excess of $100,000,000 
     using ASFF:  Provided further, That the Department of Defense 
     must certify to the congressional defense committees that the 
     AROC has convened and approved a process for ensuring 
     compliance with the requirements in the preceding proviso and 
     accompanying report language for the ASFF.
       Sec. 9010.  Funds made available in this title to the 
     Department of Defense for operation and maintenance may be 
     used to purchase items having an investment unit cost of not 
     more than $250,000:  Provided, That, upon determination by 
     the Secretary of Defense that such action is necessary to 
     meet the operational requirements of a Commander of a 
     Combatant Command engaged in contingency operations overseas, 
     such funds may be used to purchase items having an investment 
     item unit cost of not more than $500,000.
       Sec. 9011.  Up to $500,000,000 of funds appropriated by 
     this Act for the Defense Security Cooperation Agency in 
     ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'' may be used to 
     provide assistance to the Government of Jordan to support the 
     armed forces of Jordan and to enhance security along its 
     borders.
       Sec. 9012.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     under the heading ``Counter-ISIL Train and Equip Fund'' may 
     be used to procure or transfer man-portable air defense 
     systems.
       Sec. 9013.  For the ``Ukraine Security Assistance 
     Initiative'', $150,000,000 is hereby appropriated, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, That such 
     funds shall be available to the Secretary of Defense, in 
     coordination with the Secretary of State, to provide 
     assistance, including training; equipment; lethal weapons of 
     a defensive nature; logistics support, supplies and services; 
     sustainment; and intelligence support to the military and 
     national security forces of Ukraine, and for replacement of 
     any weapons or defensive articles provided to the Government 
     of Ukraine from the inventory of the United States:  Provided 
     further, That the Secretary of Defense shall, not less than 
     15 days prior to obligating funds provided under this 
     heading, notify the congressional defense committees in 
     writing of the details of any such obligation:  Provided 
     further, That the United States may accept equipment procured 
     using

[[Page H6389]]

     funds provided under this heading in this or prior Acts that 
     was transferred to the security forces of Ukraine and 
     returned by such forces to the United States:  Provided 
     further, That equipment procured using funds provided under 
     this heading in this or prior Acts, and not yet transferred 
     to the military or National Security Forces of Ukraine or 
     returned by such forces to the United States, may be treated 
     as stocks of the Department of Defense upon written 
     notification to the congressional defense committees:  
     Provided further, That amounts made available by this section 
     are designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.
       Sec. 9014.  Funds appropriated in this title shall be 
     available for replacement of funds for items provided to the 
     Government of Ukraine from the inventory of the United States 
     to the extent specifically provided for in section 9013 of 
     this Act.
       Sec. 9015.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     under section 9013 for ``Assistance and Sustainment to the 
     Military and National Security Forces of Ukraine'' may be 
     used to procure or transfer man-portable air defense systems.
       Sec. 9016. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available by this Act under the heading ``Operation and 
     Maintenance, Defense-Wide'' for payments under section 1233 
     of Public Law 110-181 for reimbursement to the Government of 
     Pakistan may be made available unless the Secretary of 
     Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State, 
     certifies to the congressional defense committees that the 
     Government of Pakistan is--
       (1) cooperating with the United States in counterterrorism 
     efforts against the Haqqani Network, the Quetta Shura 
     Taliban, Lashkar e-Tayyiba, Jaish-e-Mohammed, Al Qaeda, and 
     other domestic and foreign terrorist organizations, including 
     taking steps to end support for such groups and prevent them 
     from basing and operating in Pakistan and carrying out cross 
     border attacks into neighboring countries;
       (2) not supporting terrorist activities against United 
     States or coalition forces in Afghanistan, and Pakistan's 
     military and intelligence agencies are not intervening extra-
     judicially into political and judicial processes in Pakistan;
       (3) dismantling improvised explosive device (IED) networks 
     and interdicting precursor chemicals used in the manufacture 
     of IEDs;
       (4) preventing the proliferation of nuclear-related 
     material and expertise;
       (5) implementing policies to protect judicial independence 
     and due process of law;
       (6) issuing visas in a timely manner for United States 
     visitors engaged in counterterrorism efforts and assistance 
     programs in Pakistan; and
       (7) providing humanitarian organizations access to 
     detainees, internally displaced persons, and other Pakistani 
     civilians affected by the conflict.
       (b) The Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the 
     Secretary of State, may waive the restriction in subsection 
     (a) on a case-by-case basis by certifying in writing to the 
     congressional defense committees that it is in the national 
     security interest to do so:  Provided, That if the Secretary 
     of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State, 
     exercises such waiver authority, the Secretaries shall report 
     to the congressional defense committees on both the 
     justification for the waiver and on the requirements of this 
     section that the Government of Pakistan was not able to meet: 
      Provided further, That such report may be submitted in 
     classified form if necessary.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 9017.  In addition to amounts otherwise made available 
     in this Act, $500,000,000 is hereby appropriated to the 
     Department of Defense and made available for transfer only to 
     the operation and maintenance, military personnel, and 
     procurement accounts, to improve the intelligence, 
     surveillance, and reconnaissance capabilities of the 
     Department of Defense:  Provided, That the transfer authority 
     provided in this section is in addition to any other transfer 
     authority provided elsewhere in this Act:  Provided further, 
     That not later than 30 days prior to exercising the transfer 
     authority provided in this section, the Secretary of Defense 
     shall submit a report to the congressional defense committees 
     on the proposed uses of these funds:  Provided further, That 
     the funds provided in this section may not be transferred to 
     any program, project, or activity specifically limited or 
     denied by this Act:  Provided further, That amounts made 
     available by this section are designated by the Congress for 
     Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
     pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
     and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985:  Provided further, 
     That the authority to provide funding under this section 
     shall terminate on September 30, 2018.
       Sec. 9018.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     may be used with respect to Syria in contravention of the War 
     Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1541 et seq.), including for the 
     introduction of United States armed or military forces into 
     hostilities in Syria, into situations in Syria where imminent 
     involvement in hostilities is clearly indicated by the 
     circumstances, or into Syrian territory, airspace, or waters 
     while equipped for combat, in contravention of the 
     congressional consultation and reporting requirements of 
     sections 3 and 4 of that law (50 U.S.C. 1542 and 1543).

                             (rescissions)

       Sec. 9019.  Of the funds appropriated in Department of 
     Defense Appropriations Acts, the following funds are hereby 
     rescinded from the following accounts and programs in the 
     specified amounts:  Provided, That such amounts are 
     designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985:
       ``Other Procurement, Air Force'', 2017/2019, $25,100,000;
       ``Afghanistan Security Forces Fund'', 2017/2018, 
     $100,000,000; and
       ``Counter-ISIL Train and Equip Fund'', 2017/2018, 
     $112,513,000.
       ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide, DSCA Coalition 
     Support Fund'', 2017/2018, $350,000,000.
       Sec. 9020.  Each amount designated in this Act by the 
     Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
     Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 
     shall be available only if the President subsequently so 
     designates all such amounts and transmits such designations 
     to the Congress.
       Sec. 9021. (a) Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to Congress 
     a report on the United States strategy to defeat Al-Qaeda, 
     the Taliban, the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS), and 
     their associated forces and co-belligerents.
       (b) The report required under subsection (a) shall include 
     the following:
       (1) An analysis of the adequacy of the existing legal 
     framework to accomplish the strategy described in subsection 
     (a), particularly with respect to the Authorization for Use 
     of Military Force (Public Law 107-40; 50 U.S.C. 1541 note) 
     and the Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Iraq 
     Resolution of 2002 (Public Law 107-243; 50 U.S.C. 1541 note).
       (2) An analysis of the budgetary resources necessary to 
     accomplish the strategy described in subsection (a).
       (c) Not later than 30 days after the date on which the 
     President submits to the appropriate congressional committees 
     the report required by subsection (a), the Secretary of State 
     and the Secretary of Defense shall testify at any hearing 
     held by any of the appropriate congressional committees on 
     the report and to which the Secretary is invited.
       (d) In this section, the term ``appropriate congressional 
     committees'' means--
       (1) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on 
     Armed Services of the Senate; and
       (2) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on 
     Armed Services of the House of Representatives.

                 TITLE X--ADDITIONAL GENERAL PROVISIONS

                           references to act

       Sec. 10001.  Except as expressly provided otherwise, any 
     reference to ``this Act'' contained in this division shall be 
     treated as referring only to the provisions of this division.

                          references to report

       Sec. 10002.  Any reference to a ``report accompanying this 
     Act'' contained in this division shall be treated as a 
     reference to House Report 115-219. The effect of such Report 
     shall be limited to this division and shall apply for 
     purposes of determining the allocation of funds provided by, 
     and the implementation of, this division.

                       spending reduction account

       Sec. 10003.  $0.
       This division may be cited as the ``Department of Defense 
     Appropriations Act, 2018''.

        DIVISION B--LEGISLATIVE BRANCH APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2018

        The following sums are appropriated, out of any money in 
     the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the Legislative 
     Branch for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2018, and for 
     other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                           LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                         Salaries and Expenses

       For salaries and expenses of the House of Representatives, 
     $1,194,050,766, as follows:

                        House Leadership Offices

       For salaries and expenses, as authorized by law, 
     $22,278,891, including: Office of the Speaker, $6,645,417, 
     including $25,000 for official expenses of the Speaker; 
     Office of the Majority Floor Leader, $2,180,048, including 
     $10,000 for official expenses of the Majority Leader; Office 
     of the Minority Floor Leader, $7,114,471, including $10,000 
     for official expenses of the Minority Leader; Office of the 
     Majority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Majority Whip, 
     $1,886,632, including $5,000 for official expenses of the 
     Majority Whip; Office of the Minority Whip, including the 
     Chief Deputy Minority Whip, $1,459,639, including $5,000 for 
     official expenses of the Minority Whip; Republican 
     Conference, $1,505,426; Democratic Caucus, $1,487,258: 
     Provided, That such amount for salaries and expenses shall 
     remain available from January 3, 2018 until January 2, 2019.

                  Members' Representational Allowances

   Including Members' Clerk Hire, Official Expenses of Members, and 
                             Official Mail

       For Members' representational allowances, including 
     Members' clerk hire, official expenses, and official mail, 
     $562,632,498.

                          Committee Employees

                Standing Committees, Special and Select

       For salaries and expenses of standing committees, special 
     and select, authorized by House resolutions, $127,053,373: 
     Provided, That such amount shall remain available for such 
     salaries and expenses until December 31, 2018, except that 
     $3,150,200 of such amount shall remain available until 
     expended for committee room upgrading.

                      Committee on Appropriations

       For salaries and expenses of the Committee on 
     Appropriations, $23,226,000, including studies

[[Page H6390]]

     and examinations of executive agencies and temporary personal 
     services for such committee, to be expended in accordance 
     with section 202(b) of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 
     1946 and to be available for reimbursement to agencies for 
     services performed: Provided, That such amount shall remain 
     available for such salaries and expenses until December 31, 
     2018.

                    Salaries, Officers and Employees

       For compensation and expenses of officers and employees, as 
     authorized by law, $198,156,000, including: for salaries and 
     expenses of the Office of the Clerk, including the positions 
     of the Chaplain and the Historian, and including not more 
     than $25,000 for official representation and reception 
     expenses, of which not more than $20,000 is for the Family 
     Room and not more than $2,000 is for the Office of the 
     Chaplain, $27,945,000; for salaries and expenses of the 
     Office of the Sergeant at Arms, including the position of 
     Superintendent of Garages and the Office of Emergency 
     Management, and including not more than $3,000 for official 
     representation and reception expenses, $20,505,000 of which 
     $6,696,000 shall remain available until expended; for 
     salaries and expenses of the Office of the Chief 
     Administrative Officer including not more than $3,000 for 
     official representation and reception expenses, $127,165,000, 
     of which $2,108,000 shall remain available until expended; 
     for salaries and expenses of the Office of the Inspector 
     General, $4,968,000; for salaries and expenses of the Office 
     of General Counsel, $1,492,000; for salaries and expenses of 
     the Office of the Parliamentarian, including the 
     Parliamentarian, $2,000 for preparing the Digest of Rules, 
     and not more than $1,000 for official representation and 
     reception expenses, $2,037,000; for salaries and expenses of 
     the Office of the Law Revision Counsel of the House, 
     $3,209,000; for salaries and expenses of the Office of the 
     Legislative Counsel of the House, $9,437,000; for salaries 
     and expenses of the Office of Interparliamentary Affairs, 
     $814,000; for other authorized employees, $584,000.

                        Allowances and Expenses

       For allowances and expenses as authorized by House 
     resolution or law, $260,704,004, including: supplies, 
     materials, administrative costs and Federal tort claims, 
     $3,625,000; official mail for committees, leadership offices, 
     and administrative offices of the House, $190,000; Government 
     contributions for health, retirement, Social Security, and 
     other applicable employee benefits, $233,540,004, to remain 
     available until March 31, 2019; Business Continuity and 
     Disaster Recovery, $16,186,000 of which $5,000,000 shall 
     remain available until expended; transition activities for 
     new members and staff, $2,273,000, to remain available until 
     expended; Wounded Warrior Program $2,500,000, to remain 
     available until expended; Office of Congressional Ethics, 
     $1,670,000; and miscellaneous items including purchase, 
     exchange, maintenance, repair and operation of House motor 
     vehicles, interparliamentary receptions, and gratuities to 
     heirs of deceased employees of the House, $720,000.

                       Administrative Provisions

requiring amounts remaining in members' representational allowances to 
      be used for deficit reduction or to reduce the federal debt

       Sec. 101. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     any amounts appropriated under this Act for ``HOUSE OF 
     REPRESENTATIVES--Salaries and Expenses--Members' 
     Representational Allowances'' shall be available only for 
     fiscal year 2018. Any amount remaining after all payments are 
     made under such allowances for fiscal year 2018 shall be 
     deposited in the Treasury and used for deficit reduction (or, 
     if there is no Federal budget deficit after all such payments 
     have been made, for reducing the Federal debt, in such manner 
     as the Secretary of the Treasury considers appropriate).
       (b) Regulations.--The Committee on House Administration of 
     the House of Representatives shall have authority to 
     prescribe regulations to carry out this section.
       (c) Definition.--As used in this section, the term ``Member 
     of the House of Representatives'' means a Representative in, 
     or a Delegate or Resident Commissioner to, the Congress.

                   delivery of bills and resolutions

       Sec. 102.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used to deliver a printed copy of a bill, joint 
     resolution, or resolution to the office of a Member of the 
     House of Representatives (including a Delegate or Resident 
     Commissioner to the Congress) unless the Member requests a 
     copy.

                    delivery of congressional record

       Sec. 103.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to deliver a printed copy of any version of the 
     Congressional Record to the office of a Member of the House 
     of Representatives (including a Delegate or Resident 
     Commissioner to the Congress).

            limitation on amount available to lease vehicles

       Sec. 104.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used by the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of 
     Representatives to make any payments from any Members' 
     Representational Allowance for the leasing of a vehicle, 
     excluding mobile district offices, in an aggregate amount 
     that exceeds $1,000 for the vehicle in any month.

           limitation on printed copies of u.s. code to house

       Sec. 105.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to provide an aggregate number of more than 50 
     printed copies of any edition of the United States Code to 
     all offices of the House of Representatives.

                  delivery of reports of disbursements

       Sec. 106.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to deliver a printed copy of the report of 
     disbursements for the operations of the House of 
     Representatives under section 106 of the House of 
     Representatives Administrative Reform Technical Corrections 
     Act (2 U.S.C. 5535) to the office of a Member of the House of 
     Representatives (including a Delegate or Resident 
     Commissioner to the Congress).

                       delivery of daily calendar

       Sec. 107.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to deliver to the office of a Member of the House of 
     Representatives (including a Delegate or Resident 
     Commissioner to the Congress) a printed copy of the Daily 
     Calendar of the House of Representatives which is prepared by 
     the Clerk of the House of Representatives.

             delivery of congressional pictorial directory

       Sec. 108.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to deliver a printed copy of the Congressional 
     Pictorial Directory to the office of a Member of the House of 
     Representatives (including a Delegate or Resident 
     Commissioner to the Congress).

               amending the house services revolving fund

       Sec. 109. (a) Collection of Certain Service Fees.--Section 
     105(a) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2005 (2 
     U.S.C. 5545(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following 
     new paragraph:
       ``(7) The collection of a service fee from vendors of the 
     Master Web Services Agreement or the Technology Services 
     Contract for failure to abide by and maintain House of 
     Representatives security policies.''.
       (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) 
     shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.

                      adjustments to compensation

       Sec. 110.  Not withstanding any other provision of law, no 
     adjustment shall be made under section 601(a) of the 
     Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 4501) 
     (relating to cost of living adjustments for Members of 
     Congress) during fiscal year 2018.

                              JOINT ITEMS

       For Joint Committees, as follows:

                        Joint Economic Committee

       For salaries and expenses of the Joint Economic Committee, 
     $4,203,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.

                      Joint Committee on Taxation

       For salaries and expenses of the Joint Committee on 
     Taxation, $10,455,000, to be disbursed by the Chief 
     Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives.
       For other joint items, as follows:

                   Office of the Attending Physician

       For medical supplies, equipment, and contingent expenses of 
     the emergency rooms, and for the Attending Physician and his 
     assistants, including:
       (1) an allowance of $2,175 per month to the Attending 
     Physician;
       (2) an allowance of $1,300 per month to the Senior Medical 
     Officer;
       (3) an allowance of $725 per month each to three medical 
     officers while on duty in the Office of the Attending 
     Physician;
       (4) an allowance of $725 per month to 2 assistants and $580 
     per month each not to exceed 11 assistants on the basis 
     heretofore provided for such assistants; and
       (5) $2,780,000 for reimbursement to the Department of the 
     Navy for expenses incurred for staff and equipment assigned 
     to the Office of the Attending Physician, which shall be 
     advanced and credited to the applicable appropriation or 
     appropriations from which such salaries, allowances, and 
     other expenses are payable and shall be available for all the 
     purposes thereof, $3,838,000, to be disbursed by the Chief 
     Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives.

             Office of Congressional Accessibility Services

                         Salaries and Expenses

       For salaries and expenses of the Office of Congressional 
     Accessibility Services, $1,444,000, to be disbursed by the 
     Secretary of the Senate.

                        Administrative Provision

       Sec. 1001. (a) Establishment of Senior Level Positions.--
     Notwithstanding any order issued by the Speaker of the House 
     of Representatives pursuant to paragraph (1) of section 
     311(d) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1988 (2 
     U.S.C. 4532(1)), the chair of the Joint Committee on Taxation 
     may establish and fix the compensation of senior level 
     positions in the staff of the Joint Committee to meet 
     critical scientific, technical, professional, or executive 
     needs of the Joint Committee.
       (b) Limitation on Compensation.--The annual rate of pay for 
     any position established under this section may not exceed 
     the annual rate of pay for level II of the Executive 
     Schedule.
       (c) Conforming Amendment.-- Subsection (e) of section 214 
     of the Postal Revenue and Federal Salary Act of 1967 (2 
     U.S.C. 4302) is repealed.
       (d) Effective Date.--This section shall apply with respect 
     to fiscal year 2018 and each succeeding fiscal year.

                             CAPITOL POLICE

                                Salaries

       For salaries of employees of the Capitol Police, including 
     overtime, hazardous duty pay, and Government contributions 
     for health, retirement, social security, professional 
     liability insurance, and other applicable employee benefits, 
     $347,700,000 of which overtime shall not exceed $45,000,000 
     unless the Committee on Appropriations of the House and 
     Senate are notified, to be disbursed by the Chief of the 
     Capitol Police or his designee.

                            General Expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Capitol Police, including 
     motor vehicles, communications and

[[Page H6391]]

     other equipment, security equipment and installation, 
     uniforms, weapons, supplies, materials, training, medical 
     services, forensic services, stenographic services, personal 
     and professional services, the employee assistance program, 
     the awards program, postage, communication services, travel 
     advances, relocation of instructor and liaison personnel for 
     the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, and not more 
     than $5,000 to be expended on the certification of the Chief 
     of the Capitol Police in connection with official 
     representation and reception expenses, $74,800,000, to be 
     disbursed by the Chief of the Capitol Police or his designee: 
     Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     the cost of basic training for the Capitol Police at the 
     Federal Law Enforcement Training Center for fiscal year 2018 
     shall be paid by the Secretary of Homeland Security from 
     funds available to the Department of Homeland Security.

                          OFFICE OF COMPLIANCE

                         Salaries and Expenses

       For salaries and expenses of the Office of Compliance, as 
     authorized by section 305 of the Congressional Accountability 
     Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1385), $3,959,000, of which $450,000 
     shall remain available until September 30, 2019: Provided, 
     That not more than $500 may be expended on the certification 
     of the Executive Director of the Office of Compliance in 
     connection with official representation and reception 
     expenses.

                      CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE

                         Salaries and Expenses

       For salaries and expenses necessary for operation of the 
     Congressional Budget Office, including not more than $6,000 
     to be expended on the certification of the Director of the 
     Congressional Budget Office in connection with official 
     representation and reception expenses, $48,500,000.

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                  Capital Construction and Operations

       For salaries for the Architect of the Capitol, and other 
     personal services, at rates of pay provided by law; for all 
     necessary expenses for surveys and studies, construction, 
     operation, and general and administrative support in 
     connection with facilities and activities under the care of 
     the Architect of the Capitol including the Botanic Garden; 
     electrical substations of the Capitol, Senate and House 
     office buildings, and other facilities under the jurisdiction 
     of the Architect of the Capitol; including furnishings and 
     office equipment; including not more than $5,000 for official 
     reception and representation expenses, to be expended as the 
     Architect of the Capitol may approve; for purchase or 
     exchange, maintenance, and operation of a passenger motor 
     vehicle, $93,000,000.

                            Capitol Building

       For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and 
     operation of the Capitol, $45,300,000, of which $19,458,000 
     shall remain available until September 30, 2022.

                            Capitol Grounds

       For all necessary expenses for care and improvement of 
     grounds surrounding the Capitol, the Senate and House office 
     buildings, and the Capitol Power Plant, $13,333,000, of which 
     $3,195,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2022.

                         House Office Buildings

       For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and 
     operation of the House office buildings, $169,294,000, of 
     which $45,130,000 shall remain available until September 30, 
     2022, and of which $62,000,000 shall remain available until 
     expended for the restoration and renovation of the Cannon 
     House Office Building.
       In addition, for a payment to the House Historic Buildings 
     Revitalization Trust Fund, $10,000,000, to remain available 
     until expended.

                          Capitol Power Plant

       For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and 
     operation of the Capitol Power Plant; lighting, heating, 
     power (including the purchase of electrical energy) and water 
     and sewer services for the Capitol, Senate and House office 
     buildings, Library of Congress buildings, and the grounds 
     about the same, Botanic Garden, Senate garage, and air 
     conditioning refrigeration not supplied from plants in any of 
     such buildings; heating the Government Publishing Office and 
     Washington City Post Office, and heating and chilled water 
     for air conditioning for the Supreme Court Building, the 
     Union Station complex, the Thurgood Marshall Federal 
     Judiciary Building and the Folger Shakespeare Library, 
     expenses for which shall be advanced or reimbursed upon 
     request of the Architect of the Capitol and amounts so 
     received shall be deposited into the Treasury to the credit 
     of this appropriation, $106,694,000, of which $28,057,000 
     shall remain available until September 30, 2022: Provided, 
     That not more than $9,000,000 of the funds credited or to be 
     reimbursed to this appropriation as herein provided shall be 
     available for obligation during fiscal year 2018.

                     Library Buildings and Grounds

       For all necessary expenses for the mechanical and 
     structural maintenance, care and operation of the Library 
     buildings and grounds, $76,097,000, of which $48,724,000 
     shall remain available until September 30, 2022.

             Capitol Police Buildings, Grounds and Security

       For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and 
     operation of buildings, grounds and security enhancements of 
     the United States Capitol Police, wherever located, the 
     Alternate Computer Facility, and Architect of the Capitol 
     security operations, $33,249,000, of which $12,300,000 shall 
     remain available until September 30, 2022.

                             Botanic Garden

       For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and 
     operation of the Botanic Garden and the nurseries, buildings, 
     grounds, and collections; and purchase and exchange, 
     maintenance, repair, and operation of a passenger motor 
     vehicle; all under the direction of the Joint Committee on 
     the Library, $13,400,000, of which $2,600,000 shall remain 
     available until September 30, 2022: Provided, That, of the 
     amount made available under this heading, the Architect of 
     the Capitol may obligate and expend such sums as may be 
     necessary for the maintenance, care and operation of the 
     National Garden established under section 307E of the 
     Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1989 (2 U.S.C. 2146), 
     upon vouchers approved by the Architect of the Capitol or a 
     duly authorized designee.

                         Capitol Visitor Center

       For all necessary expenses for the operation of the Capitol 
     Visitor Center, $21,470,000.

                       Administrative Provisions

       no bonuses for contractors behind schedule or over budget

       Sec. 1101.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
     for the Architect of the Capitol may be used to make 
     incentive or award payments to contractors for work on 
     contracts or programs for which the contractor is behind 
     schedule or over budget, unless the Architect of the Capitol, 
     or agency-employed designee, determines that any such 
     deviations are due to unforeseeable events, government-driven 
     scope changes, or are not significant within the overall 
     scope of the project and/or program.

                                 scrims

       Sec. 1102.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     may be used for scrims containing photographs of building 
     facades during restoration or construction projects performed 
     by the Architect of the Capitol.

                          LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

                         Salaries and Expenses

       For all necessary expenses of the Library of Congress not 
     otherwise provided for, including development and maintenance 
     of the Library's catalogs; custody and custodial care of the 
     Library buildings; special clothing; cleaning, laundering and 
     repair of uniforms; preservation of motion pictures in the 
     custody of the Library; operation and maintenance of the 
     American Folklife Center in the Library; preparation and 
     distribution of catalog records and other publications of the 
     Library; hire or purchase of one passenger motor vehicle; and 
     expenses of the Library of Congress Trust Fund Board not 
     properly chargeable to the income of any trust fund held by 
     the Board, $464,209,234, of which not more than $6,000,000 
     shall be derived from collections credited to this 
     appropriation during fiscal year 2018, and shall remain 
     available until expended, under the Act of June 28, 1902 
     (chapter 1301; 32 Stat. 480; 2 U.S.C. 150) and not more than 
     $350,000 shall be derived from collections during fiscal year 
     2018 and shall remain available until expended for the 
     development and maintenance of an international legal 
     information database and activities related thereto: 
     Provided, That the Library of Congress may not obligate or 
     expend any funds derived from collections under the Act of 
     June 28, 1902, in excess of the amount authorized for 
     obligation or expenditure in appropriations Acts: Provided 
     further, That the total amount available for obligation shall 
     be reduced by the amount by which collections are less than 
     $6,350,000: Provided further, That, of the total amount 
     appropriated, not more than $12,000 may be expended, on the 
     certification of the Librarian of Congress, in connection 
     with official representation and reception expenses for the 
     Overseas Field Offices: Provided further, That, of the total 
     amount appropriated, $8,653,000 shall remain available until 
     expended for the digital collections and educational 
     curricula program: Provided further, That, of the total 
     amount appropriated, $1,300,000 shall remain available until 
     expended for upgrade of the Legislative Branch Financial 
     Management System.

                            Copyright Office

                         salaries and expenses

       For all necessary expenses of the Copyright Office, 
     $72,011,000, of which not more than $35,218,000, to remain 
     available until expended, shall be derived from collections 
     credited to this appropriation during fiscal year 2018 under 
     section 708(d) of title 17, United States Code: Provided, 
     That the Copyright Office may not obligate or expend any 
     funds derived from collections under such section, in excess 
     of the amount authorized for obligation or expenditure in 
     appropriations Acts: Provided further, That not more than 
     $6,087,000 shall be derived from collections during fiscal 
     year 2018 under sections 111(d)(2), 119(b)(3), 803(e), 1005, 
     and 1316 of such title: Provided further, That the total 
     amount available for obligation shall be reduced by the 
     amount by which collections are less than $41,305,000: 
     Provided further, That not more than $100,000 of the amount 
     appropriated is available for the maintenance of an 
     ``International Copyright Institute'' in the Copyright Office 
     of the Library of Congress for the purpose of training 
     nationals of developing countries in intellectual property 
     laws and policies: Provided further, That $2,260,000 shall be 
     derived from prior year unobligated balances: Provided 
     further, That not more than $6,500 may be expended, on the 
     certification of the Librarian of Congress, in connection 
     with official representation and reception expenses for 
     activities of the International Copyright Institute and for 
     copyright delegations, visitors, and seminars: Provided 
     further, That, notwithstanding any provision of chapter 8 of 
     title 17, United States Code, any amounts made available 
     under this heading which are attributable to royalty fees and 
     payments received by the Copyright Office pursuant

[[Page H6392]]

     to sections 111, 119, and chapter 10 of such title may be 
     used for the costs incurred in the administration of the 
     Copyright Royalty Judges program, with the exception of the 
     costs of salaries and benefits for the Copyright Royalty 
     Judges and staff under section 802(e).

                     Congressional Research Service

                         salaries and expenses

       For all necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
     section 203 of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 
     U.S.C. 166) and to revise and extend the Annotated 
     Constitution of the United States of America, $111,474,000: 
     Provided, That no part of such amount may be used to pay any 
     salary or expense in connection with any publication, or 
     preparation of material therefor (except the Digest of Public 
     General Bills), to be issued by the Library of Congress 
     unless such publication has obtained prior approval of either 
     the Committee on House Administration of the House of 
     Representatives or the Committee on Rules and Administration 
     of the Senate.

             Books for the Blind and Physically Handicapped

                         salaries and expenses

       For all necessary expenses to carry out the Act of March 3, 
     1931 (chapter 400; 46 Stat. 1487; 2 U.S.C. 135a), 
     $50,248,000: Provided, That, of the total amount 
     appropriated, $650,000 shall be available to contract to 
     provide newspapers to blind and physically handicapped 
     residents at no cost to the individual.

                        Administrative Provision

               reimbursable and revolving fund activities

       Sec. 1201. (a) In General.--For fiscal year 2018, the 
     obligational authority of the Library of Congress for the 
     activities described in subsection (b) may not exceed 
     $190,642,000.
       (b) Activities.--The activities referred to in subsection 
     (a) are reimbursable and revolving fund activities that are 
     funded from sources other than appropriations to the Library 
     in appropriations Acts for the legislative branch.

                      GOVERNMENT PUBLISHING OFFICE

                        Congressional Publishing

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For authorized publishing of congressional information and 
     the distribution of congressional information in any format; 
     publishing of Government publications authorized by law to be 
     distributed to Members of Congress; and publishing, and 
     distribution of Government publications authorized by law to 
     be distributed without charge to the recipient, $79,528,000: 
     Provided, That this appropriation shall not be available for 
     paper copies of the permanent edition of the Congressional 
     Record for individual Representatives, Resident Commissioners 
     or Delegates authorized under section 906 of title 44, United 
     States Code: Provided further, That this appropriation shall 
     be available for the payment of obligations incurred under 
     the appropriations for similar purposes for preceding fiscal 
     years: Provided further, That notwithstanding the 2-year 
     limitation under section 718 of title 44, United States Code, 
     none of the funds appropriated or made available under this 
     Act or any other Act for printing and binding and related 
     services provided to Congress under chapter 7 of title 44, 
     United States Code, may be expended to print a document, 
     report, or publication after the 27-month period beginning on 
     the date that such document, report, or publication is 
     authorized by Congress to be printed, unless Congress 
     reauthorizes such printing in accordance with section 718 of 
     title 44, United States Code: Provided further, That any 
     unobligated or unexpended balances in this account or 
     accounts for similar purposes for preceding fiscal years may 
     be transferred to the Government Publishing Office Business 
     Operations Revolving Fund for carrying out the purposes of 
     this heading, subject to the approval of the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate: 
     Provided further, That notwithstanding sections 901, 902, and 
     906 of title 44, United States Code, this appropriation may 
     be used to prepare indexes to the Congressional Record on 
     only a monthly and session basis.

     Public Information Programs of the Superintendent of Documents

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For expenses of the public information programs of the 
     Office of Superintendent of Documents necessary to provide 
     for the cataloging and indexing of Government publications 
     and their distribution to the public, Members of Congress, 
     other Government agencies, and designated depository and 
     international exchange libraries as authorized by law, 
     $29,000,000: Provided, That amounts of not more than 
     $2,000,000 from current year appropriations are authorized 
     for producing and disseminating Congressional serial sets and 
     other related publications for fiscal years 2016 and 2017 to 
     depository and other designated libraries: Provided further, 
     That any unobligated or unexpended balances in this account 
     or accounts for similar purposes for preceding fiscal years 
     may be transferred to the Government Publishing Office 
     Business Operations Revolving Fund for carrying out the 
     purposes of this heading, subject to the approval of the 
     Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
     and Senate.

    Government Publishing Office Business Operations Revolving Fund

       For payment to the Government Publishing Office Business 
     Operations Revolving Fund, $8,540,000, to remain available 
     until expended, for information technology development and 
     facilities repair: Provided, That the Government Publishing 
     Office is hereby authorized to make such expenditures, within 
     the limits of funds available and in accordance with law, and 
     to make such contracts and commitments without regard to 
     fiscal year limitations as provided by section 9104 of title 
     31, United States Code, as may be necessary in carrying out 
     the programs and purposes set forth in the budget for the 
     current fiscal year for the Government Publishing Office 
     Business Operations Revolving Fund: Provided further, That 
     not more than $7,500 may be expended on the certification of 
     the Director of the Government Publishing Office in 
     connection with official representation and reception 
     expenses: Provided further, That the business operations 
     revolving fund shall be available for the hire or purchase of 
     not more than 12 passenger motor vehicles: Provided further, 
     That expenditures in connection with travel expenses of the 
     advisory councils to the Director of the Government 
     Publishing Office shall be deemed necessary to carry out the 
     provisions of title 44, United States Code: Provided further, 
     That the business operations revolving fund shall be 
     available for temporary or intermittent services under 
     section 3109(b) of title 5, United States Code, but at rates 
     for individuals not more than the daily equivalent of the 
     annual rate of basic pay for level V of the Executive 
     Schedule under section 5316 of such title: Provided further, 
     That activities financed through the business operations 
     revolving fund may provide information in any format: 
     Provided further, That the business operations revolving fund 
     and the funds provided under the heading ``Public Information 
     Programs of the Superintendent of Documents'' may not be used 
     for contracted security services at the Government Publishing 
     Office's passport facility in the District of Columbia.

                    GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE

                         Salaries and Expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Government Accountability 
     Office, including not more than $12,500 to be expended on the 
     certification of the Comptroller General of the United States 
     in connection with official representation and reception 
     expenses; temporary or intermittent services under section 
     3109(b) of title 5, United States Code, but at rates for 
     individuals not more than the daily equivalent of the annual 
     rate of basic pay for level IV of the Executive Schedule 
     under section 5315 of such title; hire of one passenger motor 
     vehicle; advance payments in foreign countries in accordance 
     with section 3324 of title 31, United States Code; benefits 
     comparable to those payable under sections 901(5), (6), and 
     (8) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4081(5), 
     (6), and (8)); and under regulations prescribed by the 
     Comptroller General of the United States, rental of living 
     quarters in foreign countries, $544,505,919: Provided, That, 
     in addition, $23,800,000 of payments received under sections 
     782, 791, 3521, and 9105 of title 31, United States Code, 
     shall be available without fiscal year limitation: Provided 
     further, That this appropriation and appropriations for 
     administrative expenses of any other department or agency 
     which is a member of the National Intergovernmental Audit 
     Forum or a Regional Intergovernmental Audit Forum shall be 
     available to finance an appropriate share of either Forum's 
     costs as determined by the respective Forum, including 
     necessary travel expenses of non-Federal participants: 
     Provided further, That payments hereunder to the Forum may be 
     credited as reimbursements to any appropriation from which 
     costs involved are initially financed.

                OPEN WORLD LEADERSHIP CENTER TRUST FUND

       For a payment to the Open World Leadership Center Trust 
     Fund for financing activities of the Open World Leadership 
     Center under section 313 of the Legislative Branch 
     Appropriations Act, 2001 (2 U.S.C. 1151), $5,600,000: 
     Provided, That funds made available to support Russian 
     participants shall only be used for those engaging in free 
     market development, humanitarian activities, and civic 
     engagement, and shall not be used for officials of the 
     central government of Russia.

   John C. Stennis Center for Public Service Training and Development

       For payment to the John C. Stennis Center for Public 
     Service Development Trust Fund established under section 116 
     of the John C. Stennis Center for Public Service Training and 
     Development Act (2 U.S.C. 1105), $430,000.

                                TITLE II

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                maintenance and care of private vehicles

       Sec. 201.  No part of the funds appropriated in this Act 
     shall be used for the maintenance or care of private 
     vehicles, except for emergency assistance and cleaning as may 
     be provided under regulations relating to parking facilities 
     for the House of Representatives issued by the Committee on 
     House Administration and for the Senate issued by the 
     Committee on Rules and Administration.

                         fiscal year limitation

       Sec. 202.  No part of the funds appropriated in this Act 
     shall remain available for obligation beyond fiscal year 2018 
     unless expressly so provided in this Act.

                 rates of compensation and designation

       Sec. 203.  Whenever in this Act any office or position not 
     specifically established by the Legislative Pay Act of 1929 
     (46 Stat. 32 et seq.) is appropriated for or the rate of 
     compensation or designation of any office or position 
     appropriated for is different from that specifically 
     established by such Act, the rate of compensation and the 
     designation in this Act shall be the permanent law with 
     respect thereto: Provided, That the provisions in this Act 
     for the various items of official expenses of Members, 
     officers, and committees of the Senate and House of 
     Representatives, and clerk hire for Senators and Members of 
     the House of Representatives shall be the permanent law with 
     respect thereto.

[[Page H6393]]

  


                          consulting services

       Sec. 204.  The expenditure of any appropriation under this 
     Act for any consulting service through procurement contract, 
     under section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, shall be 
     limited to those contracts where such expenditures are a 
     matter of public record and available for public inspection, 
     except where otherwise provided under existing law, or under 
     existing Executive order issued under existing law.

                             costs of lbfmc

       Sec. 205.  Amounts available for administrative expenses of 
     any legislative branch entity which participates in the 
     Legislative Branch Financial Managers Council (LBFMC) 
     established by charter on March 26, 1996, shall be available 
     to finance an appropriate share of LBFMC costs as determined 
     by the LBFMC, except that the total LBFMC costs to be shared 
     among all participating legislative branch entities (in such 
     allocations among the entities as the entities may determine) 
     may not exceed $2,000.

                        limitation on transfers

       Sec. 206.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality 
     of the United States Government, except pursuant to a 
     transfer made by, or transfer authority provided in, this Act 
     or any other appropriation Act.

                      guided tours of the capitol

       Sec. 207. (a) Except as provided in subsection (b), none of 
     the funds made available to the Architect of the Capitol in 
     this Act may be used to eliminate or restrict guided tours of 
     the United States Capitol which are led by employees and 
     interns of offices of Members of Congress and other offices 
     of the House of Representatives and Senate.
       (b) At the direction of the Capitol Police Board, or at the 
     direction of the Architect of the Capitol with the approval 
     of the Capitol Police Board, guided tours of the United 
     States Capitol which are led by employees and interns 
     described in subsection (a) may be suspended temporarily or 
     otherwise subject to restriction for security or related 
     reasons to the same extent as guided tours of the United 
     States Capitol which are led by the Architect of the Capitol.

                           references to act

       Sec. 208.  Except as expressly provided otherwise, any 
     reference to ``this Act'' contained in this division shall be 
     treated as referring only to the provisions of this division.

                          references to report

       Sec. 209.  Any reference to a ``report accompanying this 
     Act'' contained in this division shall be treated as a 
     reference to House Report 115-199. The effect of such Report 
     shall be limited to this division and shall apply for 
     purposes of determining the allocation of funds provided by, 
     and the implementation of, this division.

                       spending reduction account

       Sec. 210.  $0.
       This division may be cited as the ``Legislative Branch 
     Appropriations Act, 2018''.

   DIVISION C--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, VETERANS AFFAIRS, AND RELATED 
                   AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2018

        The following sums are appropriated, out of any money in 
     the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for military 
     construction, the Department of Veterans Affairs, and related 
     agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2018, and 
     for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                         DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                      Military Construction, Army

       For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment 
     of temporary or permanent public works, military 
     installations, facilities, and real property for the Army as 
     currently authorized by law, including personnel in the Army 
     Corps of Engineers and other personal services necessary for 
     the purposes of this appropriation, and for construction and 
     operation of facilities in support of the functions of the 
     Commander in Chief, $923,994,000, to remain available until 
     September 30, 2022:  Provided, That, of this amount, not to 
     exceed $101,470,000 shall be available for study, planning, 
     design, architect and engineer services, and host nation 
     support, as authorized by law, unless the Secretary of the 
     Army determines that additional obligations are necessary for 
     such purposes and notifies the Committees on Appropriations 
     of both Houses of Congress of the determination and the 
     reasons therefor.

              Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps

       For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment 
     of temporary or permanent public works, naval installations, 
     facilities, and real property for the Navy and Marine Corps 
     as currently authorized by law, including personnel in the 
     Naval Facilities Engineering Command and other personal 
     services necessary for the purposes of this appropriation, 
     $1,558,085,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022: 
      Provided, That, of this amount, not to exceed $219,069,000 
     shall be available for study, planning, design, and architect 
     and engineer services, as authorized by law, unless the 
     Secretary of the Navy determines that additional obligations 
     are necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees 
     on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the 
     determination and the reasons therefor.

                    Military Construction, Air Force

       For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment 
     of temporary or permanent public works, military 
     installations, facilities, and real property for the Air 
     Force as currently authorized by law, $1,540,474,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2022:  Provided, That, 
     of this amount, not to exceed $97,852,000 shall be available 
     for study, planning, design, and architect and engineer 
     services, as authorized by law, unless the Secretary of the 
     Air Force determines that additional obligations are 
     necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees on 
     Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the 
     determination and the reasons therefor.

                  Military Construction, Defense-Wide

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment 
     of temporary or permanent public works, installations, 
     facilities, and real property for activities and agencies of 
     the Department of Defense (other than the military 
     departments), as currently authorized by law, $2,791,272,000, 
     to remain available until September 30, 2022:  Provided, That 
     such amounts of this appropriation as may be determined by 
     the Secretary of Defense may be transferred to such 
     appropriations of the Department of Defense available for 
     military construction or family housing as the Secretary may 
     designate, to be merged with and to be available for the same 
     purposes, and for the same time period, as the appropriation 
     or fund to which transferred:  Provided further, That, of the 
     amount, not to exceed $185,717,000 shall be available for 
     study, planning, design, and architect and engineer services, 
     as authorized by law, unless the Secretary of Defense 
     determines that additional obligations are necessary for such 
     purposes and notifies the Committees on Appropriations of 
     both Houses of Congress of the determination and the reasons 
     therefor.

               Military Construction, Army National Guard

       For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, 
     and conversion of facilities for the training and 
     administration of the Army National Guard, and contributions 
     therefor, as authorized by chapter 1803 of title 10, United 
     States Code, and Military Construction Authorization Acts, 
     $210,652,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022:  
     Provided, That, of the amount, not to exceed $16,271,000 
     shall be available for study, planning, design, and architect 
     and engineer services, as authorized by law, unless the 
     Director of the Army National Guard determines that 
     additional obligations are necessary for such purposes and 
     notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
     Congress of the determination and the reasons therefor.

               Military Construction, Air National Guard

       For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, 
     and conversion of facilities for the training and 
     administration of the Air National Guard, and contributions 
     therefor, as authorized by chapter 1803 of title 10, United 
     States Code, and Military Construction Authorization Acts, 
     $161,491,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022:  
     Provided, That, of the amount, not to exceed $18,000,000 
     shall be available for study, planning, design, and architect 
     and engineer services, as authorized by law, unless the 
     Director of the Air National Guard determines that additional 
     obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the 
     Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of 
     the determination and the reasons therefor.

                  Military Construction, Army Reserve

       For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, 
     and conversion of facilities for the training and 
     administration of the Army Reserve as authorized by chapter 
     1803 of title 10, United States Code, and Military 
     Construction Authorization Acts, $73,712,000, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2022:  Provided, That, of the 
     amount, not to exceed $6,887,000 shall be available for 
     study, planning, design, and architect and engineer services, 
     as authorized by law, unless the Chief of the Army Reserve 
     determines that additional obligations are necessary for such 
     purposes and notifies the Committees on Appropriations of 
     both Houses of Congress of the determination and the reasons 
     therefor.

                  Military Construction, Navy Reserve

       For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, 
     and conversion of facilities for the training and 
     administration of the reserve components of the Navy and 
     Marine Corps as authorized by chapter 1803 of title 10, 
     United States Code, and Military Construction Authorization 
     Acts, $65,271,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2022:  Provided, That, of the amount, not to exceed 
     $4,430,000 shall be available for study, planning, design, 
     and architect and engineer services, as authorized by law, 
     unless the Secretary of the Navy determines that additional 
     obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the 
     Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of 
     the determination and the reasons therefor.

                Military Construction, Air Force Reserve

       For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, 
     and conversion of facilities for the training and 
     administration of the Air Force Reserve as authorized by 
     chapter 1803 of title 10, United States Code, and Military 
     Construction Authorization Acts, $63,535,000, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2022:  Provided, That, of the 
     amount, not to exceed $4,725,000 shall be available for 
     study, planning, design, and architect and engineer services, 
     as authorized by law, unless the Chief of the Air Force 
     Reserve determines that additional obligations are necessary 
     for such purposes and notifies the Committees on 
     Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the 
     determination and the reasons therefor: Provided further,  
     That, the Chief of the Air Force Reserve shall take immediate 
     action to address unfunded military construction requirements 
     for access control points and security issues at Air Force 
     Reserve facilities.

[[Page H6394]]

  


                   North Atlantic Treaty Organization

                      Security Investment Program

       For the United States share of the cost of the North 
     Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program for 
     the acquisition and construction of military facilities and 
     installations (including international military headquarters) 
     and for related expenses for the collective defense of the 
     North Atlantic Treaty Area as authorized by section 2806 of 
     title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
     Authorization Acts, $177,932,000, to remain available until 
     expended.

               Department of Defense Base Closure Account

       For deposit into the Department of Defense Base Closure 
     Account, established by section 2906(a) of the Defense Base 
     Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (10 U.S.C. 2687 note), 
     $290,867,000, to remain available until expended.

                   Family Housing Construction, Army

       For expenses of family housing for the Army for 
     construction, including acquisition, replacement, addition, 
     expansion, extension, and alteration, as authorized by law, 
     $182,662,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022.

             Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Army

       For expenses of family housing for the Army for operation 
     and maintenance, including debt payment, leasing, minor 
     construction, principal and interest charges, and insurance 
     premiums, as authorized by law, $346,625,000.

           Family Housing Construction, Navy and Marine Corps

       For expenses of family housing for the Navy and Marine 
     Corps for construction, including acquisition, replacement, 
     addition, expansion, extension, and alteration, as authorized 
     by law, $83,682,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2022.

    Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Navy and Marine Corps

       For expenses of family housing for the Navy and Marine 
     Corps for operation and maintenance, including debt payment, 
     leasing, minor construction, principal and interest charges, 
     and insurance premiums, as authorized by law, $328,282,000.

                 Family Housing Construction, Air Force

       For expenses of family housing for the Air Force for 
     construction, including acquisition, replacement, addition, 
     expansion, extension, and alteration, as authorized by law, 
     $85,062,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022.

          Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

       For expenses of family housing for the Air Force for 
     operation and maintenance, including debt payment, leasing, 
     minor construction, principal and interest charges, and 
     insurance premiums, as authorized by law, $318,324,000.

         Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

       For expenses of family housing for the activities and 
     agencies of the Department of Defense (other than the 
     military departments) for operation and maintenance, leasing, 
     and minor construction, as authorized by law, $59,169,000.

         Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund

       For the Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement 
     Fund, $2,726,000, to remain available until expended, for 
     family housing initiatives undertaken pursuant to section 
     2883 of title 10, United States Code, providing alternative 
     means of acquiring and improving military family housing and 
     supporting facilities.

 Department of Defense Military Unaccompanied Housing Improvement Fund

       For the Department of Defense Military Unaccompanied 
     Housing Improvement Fund, $623,000, to remain available until 
     expended, for unaccompanied housing initiatives undertaken 
     pursuant to section 2883 of title 10, United States Code, 
     providing alternative means of acquiring and improving 
     military unaccompanied housing and supporting facilities.

                       Administrative Provisions

       Sec. 101.  None of the funds made available in this title 
     shall be expended for payments under a cost-plus-a-fixed-fee 
     contract for construction, where cost estimates exceed 
     $25,000, to be performed within the United States, except 
     Alaska, without the specific approval in writing of the 
     Secretary of Defense setting forth the reasons therefor.
       Sec. 102.  Funds made available in this title for 
     construction shall be available for hire of passenger motor 
     vehicles.
       Sec. 103.  Funds made available in this title for 
     construction may be used for advances to the Federal Highway 
     Administration, Department of Transportation, for the 
     construction of access roads as authorized by section 210 of 
     title 23, United States Code, when projects authorized 
     therein are certified as important to the national defense by 
     the Secretary of Defense.
       Sec. 104.  None of the funds made available in this title 
     may be used to begin construction of new bases in the United 
     States for which specific appropriations have not been made.
       Sec. 105.  None of the funds made available in this title 
     shall be used for purchase of land or land easements in 
     excess of 100 percent of the value as determined by the Army 
     Corps of Engineers or the Naval Facilities Engineering 
     Command, except: (1) where there is a determination of value 
     by a Federal court; (2) purchases negotiated by the Attorney 
     General or the designee of the Attorney General; (3) where 
     the estimated value is less than $25,000; or (4) as otherwise 
     determined by the Secretary of Defense to be in the public 
     interest.
       Sec. 106.  None of the funds made available in this title 
     shall be used to: (1) acquire land; (2) provide for site 
     preparation; or (3) install utilities for any family housing, 
     except housing for which funds have been made available in 
     annual Acts making appropriations for military construction.
       Sec. 107.  None of the funds made available in this title 
     for minor construction may be used to transfer or relocate 
     any activity from one base or installation to another, 
     without prior notification to the Committees on 
     Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
       Sec. 108.  None of the funds made available in this title 
     may be used for the procurement of steel for any construction 
     project or activity for which American steel producers, 
     fabricators, and manufacturers have been denied the 
     opportunity to compete for such steel procurement.
       Sec. 109.  None of the funds available to the Department of 
     Defense for military construction or family housing during 
     the current fiscal year may be used to pay real property 
     taxes in any foreign nation.
       Sec. 110.  None of the funds made available in this title 
     may be used to initiate a new installation overseas without 
     prior notification to the Committees on Appropriations of 
     both Houses of Congress.
       Sec. 111.  None of the funds made available in this title 
     may be obligated for architect and engineer contracts 
     estimated by the Government to exceed $500,000 for projects 
     to be accomplished in Japan, in any North Atlantic Treaty 
     Organization member country, or in countries bordering the 
     Arabian Gulf, unless such contracts are awarded to United 
     States firms or United States firms in joint venture with 
     host nation firms.
       Sec. 112.  None of the funds made available in this title 
     for military construction in the United States territories 
     and possessions in the Pacific and on Kwajalein Atoll, or in 
     countries bordering the Arabian Gulf, may be used to award 
     any contract estimated by the Government to exceed $1,000,000 
     to a foreign contractor:  Provided, That this section shall 
     not be applicable to contract awards for which the lowest 
     responsive and responsible bid of a United States contractor 
     exceeds the lowest responsive and responsible bid of a 
     foreign contractor by greater than 20 percent:  Provided 
     further, That this section shall not apply to contract awards 
     for military construction on Kwajalein Atoll for which the 
     lowest responsive and responsible bid is submitted by a 
     Marshallese contractor.
       Sec. 113.  The Secretary of Defense shall inform the 
     appropriate committees of both Houses of Congress, including 
     the Committees on Appropriations, of plans and scope of any 
     proposed military exercise involving United States personnel 
     30 days prior to its occurring, if amounts expended for 
     construction, either temporary or permanent, are anticipated 
     to exceed $100,000.
       Sec. 114.  Funds appropriated to the Department of Defense 
     for construction in prior years shall be available for 
     construction authorized for each such military department by 
     the authorizations enacted into law during the current 
     session of Congress.
       Sec. 115.  For military construction or family housing 
     projects that are being completed with funds otherwise 
     expired or lapsed for obligation, expired or lapsed funds may 
     be used to pay the cost of associated supervision, 
     inspection, overhead, engineering and design on those 
     projects and on subsequent claims, if any.
       Sec. 116.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any 
     funds made available to a military department or defense 
     agency for the construction of military projects may be 
     obligated for a military construction project or contract, or 
     for any portion of such a project or contract, at any time 
     before the end of the fourth fiscal year after the fiscal 
     year for which funds for such project were made available, if 
     the funds obligated for such project: (1) are obligated from 
     funds available for military construction projects; and (2) 
     do not exceed the amount appropriated for such project, plus 
     any amount by which the cost of such project is increased 
     pursuant to law.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 117.  Subject to 30 days prior notification, or 14 
     days for a notification provided in an electronic medium 
     pursuant to sections 480 and 2883 of title 10, United States 
     Code, to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
     Congress, such additional amounts as may be determined by the 
     Secretary of Defense may be transferred to: (1) the 
     Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund from 
     amounts appropriated for construction in ``Family Housing'' 
     accounts, to be merged with and to be available for the same 
     purposes and for the same period of time as amounts 
     appropriated directly to the Fund; or (2) the Department of 
     Defense Military Unaccompanied Housing Improvement Fund from 
     amounts appropriated for construction of military 
     unaccompanied housing in ``Military Construction'' accounts, 
     to be merged with and to be available for the same purposes 
     and for the same period of time as amounts appropriated 
     directly to the Fund:  Provided, That appropriations made 
     available to the Funds shall be available to cover the costs, 
     as defined in section 502(5) of the Congressional Budget Act 
     of 1974, of direct loans or loan guarantees issued by the 
     Department of Defense pursuant to the provisions of 
     subchapter IV of chapter 169 of title 10, United States Code, 
     pertaining to alternative means of acquiring and improving 
     military family housing, military unaccompanied housing, and 
     supporting facilities.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 118.  In addition to any other transfer authority 
     available to the Department of Defense, amounts may be 
     transferred from the Department of Defense Base Closure 
     Account to the fund established by section 1013(d) of the 
     Demonstration Cities and Metropolitan Development

[[Page H6395]]

     Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 3374) to pay for expenses associated 
     with the Homeowners Assistance Program incurred under 42 
     U.S.C. 3374(a)(1)(A). Any amounts transferred shall be merged 
     with and be available for the same purposes and for the same 
     time period as the fund to which transferred.
       Sec. 119.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     funds made available in this title for operation and 
     maintenance of family housing shall be the exclusive source 
     of funds for repair and maintenance of all family housing 
     units, including general or flag officer quarters:  Provided, 
     That not more than $15,000 per unit may be spent annually for 
     the maintenance and repair of any general or flag officer 
     quarters without 30 days prior notification, or 14 days for a 
     notification provided in an electronic medium pursuant to 
     sections 480 and 2883 of title 10, United States Code, to the 
     Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress, 
     except that an after-the-fact notification shall be submitted 
     if the limitation is exceeded solely due to costs associated 
     with environmental remediation that could not be reasonably 
     anticipated at the time of the budget submission.
       Sec. 120.  Amounts contained in the Ford Island Improvement 
     Account established by subsection (h) of section 2814 of 
     title 10, United States Code, are appropriated and shall be 
     available until expended for the purposes specified in 
     subsection (i)(1) of such section or until transferred 
     pursuant to subsection (i)(3) of such section.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 121.  During the 5-year period after appropriations 
     available in this Act to the Department of Defense for 
     military construction and family housing operation and 
     maintenance and construction have expired for obligation, 
     upon a determination that such appropriations will not be 
     necessary for the liquidation of obligations or for making 
     authorized adjustments to such appropriations for obligations 
     incurred during the period of availability of such 
     appropriations, unobligated balances of such appropriations 
     may be transferred into the appropriation ``Foreign Currency 
     Fluctuations, Construction, Defense'', to be merged with and 
     to be available for the same time period and for the same 
     purposes as the appropriation to which transferred.
       Sec. 122. (a) Except as provided in subsection (b), none of 
     the funds made available in this Act may be used by the 
     Secretary of the Army to relocate a unit in the Army that--
       (1) performs a testing mission or function that is not 
     performed by any other unit in the Army and is specifically 
     stipulated in title 10, United States Code; and
       (2) is located at a military installation at which the 
     total number of civilian employees of the Department of the 
     Army and Army contractor personnel employed exceeds 10 
     percent of the total number of members of the regular and 
     reserve components of the Army assigned to the installation.
       (b) Exception.--Subsection (a) shall not apply if the 
     Secretary of the Army certifies to the congressional defense 
     committees that in proposing the relocation of the unit of 
     the Army, the Secretary complied with Army Regulation 5-10 
     relating to the policy, procedures, and responsibilities for 
     Army stationing actions.
       Sec. 123.  Amounts appropriated or otherwise made available 
     in an account funded under the headings in this title may be 
     transferred among projects and activities within the account 
     in accordance with the reprogramming guidelines for military 
     construction and family housing construction contained in 
     Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation 
     7000.14-R, Volume 3, Chapter 7, of March 2011, as in effect 
     on the date of enactment of this Act.
       Sec. 124.  None of the funds made available in this title 
     may be obligated or expended for planning and design and 
     construction of projects at Arlington National Cemetery.
       Sec. 125.  For an additional amount for the accounts and in 
     the amounts specified, to remain available until September 
     30, 2022:
       ``Military Construction, Army'', $43,800,000;
       ``Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps'', 
     $126,900,000;
       ``Military Construction, Air Force'', $70,300,000;
       ``Military Construction, Army National Guard'', 
     $56,000,000;
       ``Military Construction, Army Reserve'', $56,000,000
       ``Military Construction, Air National Guard'', $41,900,000; 
     and
       ``Military Construction, Air Force Reserve'', $44,100,000:
       Provided, That such funds may only be obligated to carry 
     out construction projects identified in the respective 
     military department's unfunded priority list for fiscal year 
     2018 submitted to Congress by the Secretary of Defense:  
     Provided further, That such projects are subject to 
     authorization prior to obligation and expenditure of funds to 
     carry out construction:  Provided further, That not later 
     than 30 days after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
     the military department concerned, or his or her designee, 
     shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations of both 
     Houses of Congress an expenditure plan for funds provided 
     under this section.

                         (rescissions of funds)

       Sec. 126.  Of the unobligated balances available to the 
     Department of Defense from prior appropriation Acts, the 
     following funds are hereby rescinded from the following 
     accounts in the amounts specified:
       ``Military Construction, Army'', $10,000,000;
       ``Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps'', 
     $10,000,000
       ``Military Construction, Defense-Wide'', $27,440,000;
       ``North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment 
     Program'', $25,000,000;
       ``Family Housing Construction, Army'', $18,000,000;
       ``Family Housing Construction, Navy and Marine Corps'', 
     $8,000,000; and
       ``Family Housing Construction, Air Force'', $20,000,000:
       Provided, That no amounts may be rescinded from amounts 
     that were designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism or as an emergency 
     requirement pursuant to a concurrent resolution on the budget 
     or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
     1985, as amended.
       Sec. 127.  For the purposes of this Act, the term 
     ``congressional defense committees'' means the Committees on 
     Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the 
     Senate, the Subcommittee on Military Construction and 
     Veterans Affairs of the Committee on Appropriations of the 
     Senate, and the Subcommittee on Military Construction and 
     Veterans Affairs of the Committee on Appropriations of the 
     House of Representatives.
       Sec. 128.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to carry out the closure or realignment of the United 
     States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

                                TITLE II

                     DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS

                    Veterans Benefits Administration

                       compensation and pensions

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For the payment of compensation benefits to or on behalf of 
     veterans and a pilot program for disability examinations as 
     authorized by section 107 and chapters 11, 13, 18, 51, 53, 
     55, and 61 of title 38, United States Code; pension benefits 
     to or on behalf of veterans as authorized by chapters 15, 51, 
     53, 55, and 61 of title 38, United States Code; and burial 
     benefits, the Reinstated Entitlement Program for Survivors, 
     emergency and other officers' retirement pay, adjusted-
     service credits and certificates, payment of premiums due on 
     commercial life insurance policies guaranteed under the 
     provisions of title IV of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act 
     (50 U.S.C. App. 541 et seq.) and for other benefits as 
     authorized by sections 107, 1312, 1977, and 2106, and 
     chapters 23, 51, 53, 55, and 61 of title 38, United States 
     Code, $95,768,462,000, to remain available until expended and 
     to become available on October 1, 2018:  Provided, That not 
     to exceed $17,882,000 of the amount made available for fiscal 
     year 2019 under this heading shall be reimbursed to ``General 
     Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration'', and 
     ``Information Technology Systems'' for necessary expenses in 
     implementing the provisions of chapters 51, 53, and 55 of 
     title 38, United States Code, the funding source for which is 
     specifically provided as the ``Compensation and Pensions'' 
     appropriation:  Provided further, That such sums as may be 
     earned on an actual qualifying patient basis, shall be 
     reimbursed to ``Medical Care Collections Fund'' to augment 
     the funding of individual medical facilities for nursing home 
     care provided to pensioners as authorized.

                         readjustment benefits

       For the payment of readjustment and rehabilitation benefits 
     to or on behalf of veterans as authorized by chapters 21, 30, 
     31, 33, 34, 35, 36, 39, 41, 51, 53, 55, and 61 of title 38, 
     United States Code, $11,832,175,000, to remain available 
     until expended and to become available on October 1, 2018:  
     Provided, That expenses for rehabilitation program services 
     and assistance which the Secretary is authorized to provide 
     under subsection (a) of section 3104 of title 38, United 
     States Code, other than under paragraphs (1), (2), (5), and 
     (11) of that subsection, shall be charged to this account.

                   veterans insurance and indemnities

       For military and naval insurance, national service life 
     insurance, servicemen's indemnities, service-disabled 
     veterans insurance, and veterans mortgage life insurance as 
     authorized by chapters 19 and 21, title 38, United States 
     Code, $121,529,000, which shall be in addition to remain 
     available until expended, which shall be in addition to funds 
     previously appropriated under this heading that became 
     available on October 1, 2017, of which $109,090,000 shall 
     become available on October 1, 2018.

                 veterans housing benefit program fund

       For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, such sums as 
     may be necessary to carry out the program, as authorized by 
     subchapters I through III of chapter 37 of title 38, United 
     States Code:  Provided, That such costs, including the cost 
     of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 
     of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  Provided further, 
     That, during fiscal year 2018, within the resources 
     available, not to exceed $500,000 in gross obligations for 
     direct loans are authorized for specially adapted housing 
     loans.
       In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the 
     direct and guaranteed loan programs, $178,626,000.

            vocational rehabilitation loans program account

       For the cost of direct loans, $30,000, as authorized by 
     chapter 31 of title 38, United States Code:  Provided, That 
     such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall 
     be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act 
     of 1974:  Provided further, That funds made available under 
     this heading are available to subsidize gross obligations for 
     the principal amount of direct loans not to exceed 
     $2,356,000.
       In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry 
     out the direct loan program, $395,000, which may be paid to 
     the appropriation for ``General Operating Expenses, Veterans 
     Benefits Administration''.

[[Page H6396]]

  


          native american veteran housing loan program account

       For administrative expenses to carry out the direct loan 
     program authorized by subchapter V of chapter 37 of title 38, 
     United States Code, $1,163,000.

      general operating expenses, veterans benefits administration

       For necessary operating expenses of the Veterans Benefits 
     Administration, not otherwise provided for, including hire of 
     passenger motor vehicles, reimbursement of the General 
     Services Administration for security guard services, and 
     reimbursement of the Department of Defense for the cost of 
     overseas employee mail, $2,894,000,000:  Provided, That 
     expenses for services and assistance authorized under 
     paragraphs (1), (2), (5), and (11) of section 3104(a) of 
     title 38, United States Code, that the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs determines are necessary to enable entitled veterans: 
     (1) to the maximum extent feasible, to become employable and 
     to obtain and maintain suitable employment; or (2) to achieve 
     maximum independence in daily living, shall be charged to 
     this account:  Provided further, That, of the funds made 
     available under this heading, not to exceed 5 percent shall 
     remain available until September 30, 2019.

                     Veterans Health Administration

                            medical services

       For necessary expenses for furnishing, as authorized by 
     law, inpatient and outpatient care and treatment to 
     beneficiaries of the Department of Veterans Affairs and 
     veterans described in section 1705(a) of title 38, United 
     States Code, including care and treatment in facilities not 
     under the jurisdiction of the Department, and including 
     medical supplies and equipment, bioengineering services, food 
     services, and salaries and expenses of healthcare employees 
     hired under title 38, United States Code, aid to State homes 
     as authorized by section 1741 of title 38, United States 
     Code, assistance and support services for caregivers as 
     authorized by section 1720G of title 38, United States Code, 
     loan repayments authorized by section 604 of the Caregivers 
     and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 2010 (Public Law 
     111-163; 124 Stat. 1174; 38 U.S.C. 7681 note), and hospital 
     care and medical services authorized by section 1787 of title 
     38, United States Code; $1,031,808,000, which shall be in 
     addition to funds previously appropriated under this heading 
     that became available on October 1, 2017; and, in addition, 
     $49,161,165,000, plus reimbursements, shall become available 
     on October 1, 2018, and shall remain available until 
     September 30, 2019:  Provided, That, of the amount made 
     available on October 1, 2018, under this heading, 
     $1,400,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 
     2020:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other 
     provision of law, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
     establish a priority for the provision of medical treatment 
     for veterans who have service-connected disabilities, lower 
     income, or have special needs:  Provided further, That, 
     notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of 
     Veterans Affairs shall give priority funding for the 
     provision of basic medical benefits to veterans in enrollment 
     priority groups 1 through 6:  Provided further, That, 
     notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of 
     Veterans Affairs may authorize the dispensing of prescription 
     drugs from Veterans Health Administration facilities to 
     enrolled veterans with privately written prescriptions based 
     on requirements established by the Secretary:  Provided 
     further, That the implementation of the program described in 
     the previous proviso shall incur no additional cost to the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs.

                         medical community care

       For necessary expenses for furnishing health care to 
     individuals pursuant to chapter 17 of title 38, United States 
     Code, at non-Department facilities, $254,000,000, which shall 
     be in addition to funds previously appropriated under this 
     heading that became available on October 1, 2017; and, in 
     addition, $8,384,704,000, plus reimbursements, shall become 
     available on October 1, 2018, and shall remain available 
     until September 30, 2019:  Provided, That of the amount made 
     available on October 1, 2018, under this heading, 
     $2,000,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 
     2022.

                     medical support and compliance

       For necessary expenses in the administration of the 
     medical, hospital, nursing home, domiciliary, construction, 
     supply, and research activities, as authorized by law; 
     administrative expenses in support of capital policy 
     activities; and administrative and legal expenses of the 
     Department for collecting and recovering amounts owed the 
     Department as authorized under chapter 17 of title 38, United 
     States Code, and the Federal Medical Care Recovery Act (42 
     U.S.C. 2651 et seq.), $284,397,000, which shall be in 
     addition to funds previously appropriated under this heading 
     that became available on October 1, 2017; and, in addition, 
     $7,239,156,000, plus reimbursements, shall become available 
     on October 1, 2018, and shall remain available until 
     September 30, 2019:  Provided, That, of the amount made 
     available on October 1, 2018, under this heading, 
     $100,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2020.

                           medical facilities

       For necessary expenses for the maintenance and operation of 
     hospitals, nursing homes, domiciliary facilities, and other 
     necessary facilities of the Veterans Health Administration; 
     for administrative expenses in support of planning, design, 
     project management, real property acquisition and 
     disposition, construction, and renovation of any facility 
     under the jurisdiction or for the use of the Department; for 
     oversight, engineering, and architectural activities not 
     charged to project costs; for repairing, altering, improving, 
     or providing facilities in the several hospitals and homes 
     under the jurisdiction of the Department, not otherwise 
     provided for, either by contract or by the hire of temporary 
     employees and purchase of materials; for leases of 
     facilities; and for laundry services; $1,079,795,000, which 
     shall be in addition to funds previously appropriated under 
     this heading that became available on October 1, 2017; and, 
     in addition, $5,914,288,000, plus reimbursements, shall 
     become available on October 1, 2018, and shall remain 
     available until September 30, 2019:  Provided, That, of the 
     amount made available on October 1, 2018, under this heading, 
     $250,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2020.

                    medical and prosthetic research

       For necessary expenses in carrying out programs of medical 
     and prosthetic research and development as authorized by 
     chapter 73 of title 38, United States Code, $698,228,000, 
     plus reimbursements, shall remain available until September 
     30, 2019.

                    National Cemetery Administration

       For necessary expenses of the National Cemetery 
     Administration for operations and maintenance, not otherwise 
     provided for, including uniforms or allowances therefor; 
     cemeterial expenses as authorized by law; purchase of one 
     passenger motor vehicle for use in cemeterial operations; 
     hire of passenger motor vehicles; and repair, alteration or 
     improvement of facilities under the jurisdiction of the 
     National Cemetery Administration, $306,193,000, of which not 
     to exceed 10 percent shall remain available until September 
     30, 2019.

                      Departmental Administration

                         general administration

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For necessary operating expenses of the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs, not otherwise provided for, including 
     administrative expenses in support of Department-wide capital 
     planning, management and policy activities, uniforms, or 
     allowances therefor; not to exceed $25,000 for official 
     reception and representation expenses; hire of passenger 
     motor vehicles; and reimbursement of the General Services 
     Administration for security guard services, $346,891,000, of 
     which not to exceed 5 percent shall remain available until 
     September 30, 2019:  Provided, That funds provided under this 
     heading may be transferred to ``General Operating Expenses, 
     Veterans Benefits Administration''.

                       board of veterans appeals

       For necessary operating expenses of the Board of Veterans 
     Appeals, $156,096,000, of which not to exceed 10 percent 
     shall remain available until September 30, 2019.

                     information technology systems

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For necessary expenses for information technology systems 
     and telecommunications support, including developmental 
     information systems and operational information systems; for 
     pay and associated costs; and for the capital asset 
     acquisition of information technology systems, including 
     management and related contractual costs of said 
     acquisitions, including contractual costs associated with 
     operations authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United 
     States Code, $4,135,500,000, plus reimbursements:  Provided, 
     That $1,230,320,000 shall be for pay and associated costs, of 
     which not to exceed $36,000,000 shall remain available until 
     September 30, 2019:  Provided further, That $2,486,650,000 
     shall be for operations and maintenance, of which not to 
     exceed $174,000,000 shall remain available until September 
     30, 2019:  Provided further, That $418,530,000 shall be for 
     information technology systems development, modernization, 
     and enhancement, and shall remain available until September 
     30, 2019:  Provided further, That amounts made available for 
     information technology systems development, modernization, 
     and enhancement may not be obligated or expended until the 
     Secretary of Veterans Affairs or the Chief Information 
     Officer of the Department of Veterans Affairs submits to the 
     Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a 
     certification of the amounts, in parts or in full, to be 
     obligated and expended for each development project:  
     Provided further, That amounts made available for salaries 
     and expenses, operations and maintenance, and information 
     technology systems development, modernization, and 
     enhancement may be transferred among the three subaccounts 
     after the Secretary of Veterans Affairs requests from the 
     Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress the 
     authority to make the transfer and an approval is issued:  
     Provided further, That amounts made available for the 
     ``Information Technology Systems'' account for development, 
     modernization, and enhancement may be transferred among 
     projects or to newly defined projects:  Provided further, 
     That no project may be increased or decreased by more than 
     $1,000,000 of cost prior to submitting a request to the 
     Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress to 
     make the transfer and an approval is issued, or absent a 
     response, a period of 30 days has elapsed:  Provided further, 
     That funds under this heading may be used by the Interagency 
     Program Office through the Department of Veterans Affairs to 
     define data standards, code sets, and value sets used to 
     enable interoperability:  Provided further, That, of the 
     funds made available for information technology systems 
     development, modernization, and enhancement for the 
     development of an electronic health record, not more than 25 
     percent may be obligated or expended until the Secretary of 
     Veterans Affairs submits to the Committees on Appropriations 
     of both Houses of Congress:
       (1) a detailed explanation of the solicitation submitted to 
     Cerner Corporation for development of an electronic health 
     record for the Department of Veterans Affairs;

[[Page H6397]]

       (2) an explanation of how the electronic health record 
     would replicate the Military Health System (MHS) Genesis 
     record developed by Cerner for the Department of Defense, as 
     well as the enhanced capabilities the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs requires to achieve complete interoperability with 
     the Department of Defense system and non-Department of 
     Veterans Affairs providers who participate in the Department 
     of Veterans Affairs healthcare system;
       (3) a strategic plan for development of the electronic 
     health record system, an associated implementation plan 
     including timelines and performance milestones, a master 
     schedule and annual and life-cycle cost estimates;
       (4) information on plans to maintain current functionality 
     and integration with Department of Defense records during the 
     transition to MHS Genesis; and
       (5) Department of Veterans Affairs plans to manage the 
     transition process to MHS Genesis, including possible pilot 
     programs, training for users, and use of change management 
     tools:
       Provided further, That the funds made available under this 
     heading for information technology systems development, 
     modernization, and enhancement, shall be for the projects, 
     and in the amounts, specified under this heading in the 
     report accompanying this Act.

                      office of inspector general

       For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
     to include information technology, in carrying out the 
     provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. 
     App.), $160,106,000, of which not to exceed 10 percent shall 
     remain available until September 30, 2019.

                      construction, major projects

       For constructing, altering, extending, and improving any of 
     the facilities, including parking projects, under the 
     jurisdiction or for the use of the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs, or for any of the purposes set forth in sections 
     316, 2404, 2406 and chapter 81 of title 38, United States 
     Code, not otherwise provided for, including planning, 
     architectural and engineering services, construction 
     management services, maintenance or guarantee period services 
     costs associated with equipment guarantees provided under the 
     project, services of claims analysts, offsite utility and 
     storm drainage system construction costs, and site 
     acquisition, where the estimated cost of a project is more 
     than the amount set forth in section 8104(a)(3)(A) of title 
     38, United States Code, or where funds for a project were 
     made available in a previous major project appropriation, 
     $410,530,000, of which $372,000,000 shall remain available 
     until September 30, 2022, and of which $38,530,000 shall 
     remain available until expended:  Provided, That except for 
     advance planning activities, including needs assessments 
     which may or may not lead to capital investments, and other 
     capital asset management related activities, including 
     portfolio development and management activities, and 
     investment strategy studies funded through the advance 
     planning fund and the planning and design activities funded 
     through the design fund, including needs assessments which 
     may or may not lead to capital investments, and salaries and 
     associated costs of the resident engineers who oversee those 
     capital investments funded through this account and 
     contracting officers who manage specific major construction 
     projects, and funds provided for the purchase, security, and 
     maintenance of land for the National Cemetery Administration 
     through the land acquisition line item, none of the funds 
     made available under this heading shall be used for any 
     project that has not been notified to Congress through the 
     budgetary process or that has not been approved by the 
     Congress through statute, joint resolution, or in the 
     explanatory statement accompanying such Act and presented to 
     the President at the time of enrollment:  Provided further, 
     That funds made available under this heading for fiscal year 
     2018, for each approved project shall be obligated: (1) by 
     the awarding of a construction documents contract by 
     September 30, 2018; and (2) by the awarding of a construction 
     contract by September 30, 2019:  Provided further, That the 
     Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall promptly submit to the 
     Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a 
     written report on any approved major construction project for 
     which obligations are not incurred within the time 
     limitations established above:  Provided further, That, of 
     the amount made available under this heading, $117,300,000 
     for Veterans Health Administration major construction 
     projects shall not be available until the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs--
       (1) enters into an agreement with an appropriate non-
     Department of Veterans Affairs Federal entity to serve as the 
     design and/or construction agent for any Veterans Health 
     Administration major construction project with a Total 
     Estimated Cost of $100,000,000 or above by providing full 
     project management services, including management of the 
     project design, acquisition, construction, and contract 
     changes, consistent with section 502 of Public Law 114-58; 
     and
       (2) certifies in writing that such an agreement is executed 
     and intended to minimize or prevent subsequent major 
     construction project cost overruns and provides a copy of the 
     agreement entered into and any required supplementary 
     information to the Committees on Appropriations of both 
     Houses of Congress.

                      construction, minor projects

       For constructing, altering, extending, and improving any of 
     the facilities, including parking projects, under the 
     jurisdiction or for the use of the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs, including planning and assessments of needs which 
     may lead to capital investments, architectural and 
     engineering services, maintenance or guarantee period 
     services costs associated with equipment guarantees provided 
     under the project, services of claims analysts, offsite 
     utility and storm drainage system construction costs, and 
     site acquisition, or for any of the purposes set forth in 
     sections 316, 2404, 2406 and chapter 81 of title 38, United 
     States Code, not otherwise provided for, where the estimated 
     cost of a project is equal to or less than the amount set 
     forth in section 8104(a)(3)(A) of title 38, United States 
     Code, $342,570,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2022, along with unobligated balances of previous 
     ``Construction, Minor Projects'' appropriations which are 
     hereby made available for any project where the estimated 
     cost is equal to or less than the amount set forth in such 
     section:  Provided, That funds made available under this 
     heading shall be for: (1) repairs to any of the nonmedical 
     facilities under the jurisdiction or for the use of the 
     Department which are necessary because of loss or damage 
     caused by any natural disaster or catastrophe; and (2) 
     temporary measures necessary to prevent or to minimize 
     further loss by such causes.

       grants for construction of state extended care facilities

       For grants to assist States to acquire or construct State 
     nursing home and domiciliary facilities and to remodel, 
     modify, or alter existing hospital, nursing home, and 
     domiciliary facilities in State homes, for furnishing care to 
     veterans as authorized by sections 8131 through 8137 of title 
     38, United States Code, $90,000,000, to remain available 
     until expended.

             grants for construction of veterans cemeteries

       For grants to assist States and tribal organizations in 
     establishing, expanding, or improving veterans cemeteries as 
     authorized by section 2408 of title 38, United States Code, 
     $45,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                       Administrative Provisions

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 201.  Any appropriation for fiscal year 2018 for 
     ``Compensation and Pensions'', ``Readjustment Benefits'', and 
     ``Veterans Insurance and Indemnities'' may be transferred as 
     necessary to any other of the mentioned appropriations:  
     Provided, That, before a transfer may take place, the 
     Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall request from the 
     Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress the 
     authority to make the transfer and such Committees issue an 
     approval, or absent a response, a period of 30 days has 
     elapsed.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 202.  Amounts made available for the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 2018, in this or any other 
     Act, under the ``Medical Services'', ``Medical Community 
     Care'', ``Medical Support and Compliance'', and ``Medical 
     Facilities'' accounts may be transferred among the accounts:  
     Provided, That any transfers among the ``Medical Services'', 
     ``Medical Community Care'', and ``Medical Support and 
     Compliance'' accounts of 1 percent or less of the total 
     amount appropriated to the account in this or any other Act 
     may take place subject to notification from the Secretary of 
     Veterans Affairs to the Committees on Appropriations of both 
     Houses of Congress of the amount and purpose of the transfer: 
      Provided further, That any transfers among the ``Medical 
     Services'', ``Medical Community Care'', and ``Medical Support 
     and Compliance'' accounts in excess of 1 percent, or 
     exceeding the cumulative 1 percent for the fiscal year, may 
     take place only after the Secretary requests from the 
     Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress the 
     authority to make the transfer and an approval is issued:  
     Provided further, That any transfers to or from the ``Medical 
     Facilities'' account may take place only after the Secretary 
     requests from the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
     of Congress the authority to make the transfer and an 
     approval is issued.
       Sec. 203.  Appropriations available in this title for 
     salaries and expenses shall be available for services 
     authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code; 
     hire of passenger motor vehicles; lease of a facility or land 
     or both; and uniforms or allowances therefore, as authorized 
     by sections 5901 through 5902 of title 5, United States Code.
       Sec. 204.  No appropriations in this title (except the 
     appropriations for ``Construction, Major Projects'', and 
     ``Construction, Minor Projects'') shall be available for the 
     purchase of any site for or toward the construction of any 
     new hospital or home.
       Sec. 205.  No appropriations in this title shall be 
     available for hospitalization or examination of any persons 
     (except beneficiaries entitled to such hospitalization or 
     examination under the laws providing such benefits to 
     veterans, and persons receiving such treatment under sections 
     7901 through 7904 of title 5, United States Code, or the 
     Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance 
     Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.)), unless reimbursement of the 
     cost of such hospitalization or examination is made to the 
     ``Medical Services'' account at such rates as may be fixed by 
     the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
       Sec. 206.  Appropriations available in this title for 
     ``Compensation and Pensions'', ``Readjustment Benefits'', and 
     ``Veterans Insurance and Indemnities'' shall be available for 
     payment of prior year accrued obligations required to be 
     recorded by law against the corresponding prior year accounts 
     within the last quarter of fiscal year 2017.
       Sec. 207.  Appropriations available in this title shall be 
     available to pay prior year obligations of corresponding 
     prior year appropriations accounts resulting from sections 
     3328(a), 3334, and 3712(a) of title 31, United States Code, 
     except that if such obligations are from trust fund accounts 
     they shall be payable only from ``Compensation and 
     Pensions''.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 208.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     during fiscal year 2018, the Secretary of

[[Page H6398]]

     Veterans Affairs shall, from the National Service Life 
     Insurance Fund under section 1920 of title 38, United States 
     Code, the Veterans' Special Life Insurance Fund under section 
     1923 of title 38, United States Code, and the United States 
     Government Life Insurance Fund under section 1955 of title 
     38, United States Code, reimburse the ``General Operating 
     Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration'' and 
     ``Information Technology Systems'' accounts for the cost of 
     administration of the insurance programs financed through 
     those accounts:  Provided, That reimbursement shall be made 
     only from the surplus earnings accumulated in such an 
     insurance program during fiscal year 2018 that are available 
     for dividends in that program after claims have been paid and 
     actuarially determined reserves have been set aside:  
     Provided further, That if the cost of administration of such 
     an insurance program exceeds the amount of surplus earnings 
     accumulated in that program, reimbursement shall be made only 
     to the extent of such surplus earnings:  Provided further, 
     That the Secretary shall determine the cost of administration 
     for fiscal year 2018 which is properly allocable to the 
     provision of each such insurance program and to the provision 
     of any total disability income insurance included in that 
     insurance program.
       Sec. 209.  Amounts deducted from enhanced-use lease 
     proceeds to reimburse an account for expenses incurred by 
     that account during a prior fiscal year for providing 
     enhanced-use lease services, may be obligated during the 
     fiscal year in which the proceeds are received.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 210.  Funds available in this title or funds for 
     salaries and other administrative expenses shall also be 
     available to reimburse the Office of Resolution Management, 
     the Office of Employment Discrimination Complaint 
     Adjudication, the Office of Accountability Review, the 
     Central Whistleblower Office, the Office of Diversity and 
     Inclusion, and the Office of the Executive Director of 
     Accountability and Whistleblower Protection, for all services 
     provided at rates which will recover actual costs but not to 
     exceed $47,668,000 for the Office of Resolution Management, 
     $3,932,000 for the Office of Employment Discrimination 
     Complaint Adjudication, $10,057,000 for the Office of 
     Accountability Review, $6,646,000 for the Central 
     Whistleblower Office, $2,973,000 for the Office of Diversity 
     and Inclusion, and $917,000 for the Office of the Executive 
     Director of Accountability and Whistleblower Protection:  
     Provided, That payments may be made in advance for services 
     to be furnished based on estimated costs:  Provided further, 
     That amounts received shall be credited to the ``General 
     Administration'' and ``Information Technology Systems'' 
     accounts for use by the office that provided the service.
       Sec. 211.  No funds of the Department of Veterans Affairs 
     shall be available for hospital care, nursing home care, or 
     medical services provided to any person under chapter 17 of 
     title 38, United States Code, for a non-service-connected 
     disability described in section 1729(a)(2) of such title, 
     unless that person has disclosed to the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs, in such form as the Secretary may require, current, 
     accurate third-party reimbursement information for purposes 
     of section 1729 of such title:  Provided, That the Secretary 
     may recover, in the same manner as any other debt due the 
     United States, the reasonable charges for such care or 
     services from any person who does not make such disclosure as 
     required:  Provided further, That any amounts so recovered 
     for care or services provided in a prior fiscal year may be 
     obligated by the Secretary during the fiscal year in which 
     amounts are received.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 212.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     proceeds or revenues derived from enhanced-use leasing 
     activities (including disposal) may be deposited into the 
     ``Construction, Major Projects'' and ``Construction, Minor 
     Projects'' accounts and be used for construction (including 
     site acquisition and disposition), alterations, and 
     improvements of any medical facility under the jurisdiction 
     or for the use of the Department of Veterans Affairs. Such 
     sums as realized are in addition to the amount provided for 
     in ``Construction, Major Projects'' and ``Construction, Minor 
     Projects''.
       Sec. 213.  Amounts made available under ``Medical 
     Services'' are available--
       (1) for furnishing recreational facilities, supplies, and 
     equipment; and
       (2) for funeral expenses, burial expenses, and other 
     expenses incidental to funerals and burials for beneficiaries 
     receiving care in the Department.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 214.  Such sums as may be deposited to the Medical 
     Care Collections Fund pursuant to section 1729A of title 38, 
     United States Code, may be transferred to the ``Medical 
     Services'' and ``Medical Community Care'' accounts to remain 
     available until expended for the purposes of these accounts.
       Sec. 215.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may enter into 
     agreements with Federally Qualified Health Centers in the 
     State of Alaska and Indian tribes and tribal organizations 
     which are party to the Alaska Native Health Compact with the 
     Indian Health Service, to provide healthcare, including 
     behavioral health and dental care, to veterans in rural 
     Alaska. The Secretary shall require participating veterans 
     and facilities to comply with all appropriate rules and 
     regulations, as established by the Secretary. The term 
     ``rural Alaska'' shall mean those lands which are not within 
     the boundaries of the municipality of Anchorage or the 
     Fairbanks North Star Borough.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 216.  Such sums as may be deposited to the Department 
     of Veterans Affairs Capital Asset Fund pursuant to section 
     8118 of title 38, United States Code, may be transferred to 
     the ``Construction, Major Projects'' and ``Construction, 
     Minor Projects'' accounts, to remain available until expended 
     for the purposes of these accounts.
       Sec. 217.  Not later than 30 days after the end of each 
     fiscal quarter, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
     submit to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
     Congress a report on the financial status of the Department 
     of Veterans Affairs for the preceding quarter:  Provided, 
     That, at a minimum, the report shall include the direction 
     contained in the paragraph entitled ``Quarterly reporting'', 
     under the heading ``General Administration'' in the joint 
     explanatory statement accompanying Public Law 114-223.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 218.  Amounts made available under the ``Medical 
     Services'', ``Medical Community Care'', ``Medical Support and 
     Compliance'', ``Medical Facilities'', ``General Operating 
     Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration'', ``Board of 
     Veterans Appeals'', ``General Administration'', and 
     ``National Cemetery Administration'' accounts for fiscal year 
     2018 may be transferred to or from the ``Information 
     Technology Systems'' account:  Provided, That such transfers 
     may not result in a more than 10 percent aggregate increase 
     in the total amount made available by this Act for the 
     ``Information Technology Systems'' account:  Provided 
     further, That, before a transfer may take place, the 
     Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall request from the 
     Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress the 
     authority to make the transfer and an approval is issued.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 219.  Of the amounts appropriated to the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 2018 for ``Medical 
     Services'', ``Medical Community Care'', ``Medical Support and 
     Compliance'', ``Medical Facilities'', ``Construction, Minor 
     Projects'', and ``Information Technology Systems'', up to 
     $297,137,000, plus reimbursements, may be transferred to the 
     Joint Department of Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs 
     Medical Facility Demonstration Fund, established by section 
     1704 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 3571) and may be used 
     for operation of the facilities designated as combined 
     Federal medical facilities as described by section 706 of the 
     Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4500):  Provided, 
     That additional funds may be transferred from accounts 
     designated in this section to the Joint Department of 
     Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility 
     Demonstration Fund upon written notification by the Secretary 
     of Veterans Affairs to the Committees on Appropriations of 
     both Houses of Congress:  Provided further, That section 222 
     of title II of division A of Military Construction, Veterans 
     Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2017 ( 
     Public Law 114-223) is repealed.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 220.  Of the amounts appropriated to the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs which become available on October 1, 2018, 
     for ``Medical Services'', ``Medical Community Care'', 
     ``Medical Support and Compliance'', and ``Medical 
     Facilities'', up to $306,378,000, plus reimbursements, may be 
     transferred to the Joint Department of Defense-Department of 
     Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund, 
     established by section 1704 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 
     123 Stat. 3571) and may be used for operation of the 
     facilities designated as combined Federal medical facilities 
     as described by section 706 of the Duncan Hunter National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 
     110-417; 122 Stat. 4500):  Provided, That additional funds 
     may be transferred from accounts designated in this section 
     to the Joint Department of Defense-Department of Veterans 
     Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund upon written 
     notification by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to the 
     Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 221.  Such sums as may be deposited to the Medical 
     Care Collections Fund pursuant to section 1729A of title 38, 
     United States Code, for healthcare provided at facilities 
     designated as combined Federal medical facilities as 
     described by section 706 of the Duncan Hunter National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 
     110-417; 122 Stat. 4500) shall also be available: (1) for 
     transfer to the Joint Department of Defense-Department of 
     Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund, 
     established by section 1704 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 
     123 Stat. 3571); and (2) for operations of the facilities 
     designated as combined Federal medical facilities as 
     described by section 706 of the Duncan Hunter National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 
     110-417; 122 Stat. 4500).

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 222.  Of the amounts available in this title for 
     ``Medical Services'', ``Medical Community Care'', ``Medical 
     Support and Compliance'', and ``Medical Facilities'', a 
     minimum of $15,000,000 shall be transferred to the DOD-VA 
     Health Care Sharing Incentive Fund, as authorized by section 
     8111(d) of title 38, United States Code, to remain available 
     until expended, for any purpose authorized by section 8111 of 
     title 38, United States Code.
       Sec. 223.  None of the funds available to the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs, in this or any other Act, may be used to 
     replace the current system by which the Veterans Integrated 
     Service Networks select and contract for diabetes monitoring 
     supplies and equipment.

[[Page H6399]]

       Sec. 224.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall notify 
     the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 
     of all bid savings in a major construction project that total 
     at least $5,000,000, or 5 percent of the programmed amount of 
     the project, whichever is less:  Provided, That such 
     notification shall occur within 14 days of a contract 
     identifying the programmed amount:  Provided further, That 
     the Secretary shall notify the Committees on Appropriations 
     of both Houses of Congress 14 days prior to the obligation of 
     such bid savings and shall describe the anticipated use of 
     such savings.
       Sec. 225.  None of the funds made available for 
     ``Construction, Major Projects'' may be used for a project in 
     excess of the scope specified for that project in the 
     original justification data provided to the Congress as part 
     of the request for appropriations unless the Secretary of 
     Veterans Affairs receives approval from the Committees on 
     Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
       Sec. 226.  Not later than 30 days after the end of each 
     fiscal quarter, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
     submit to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
     Congress a quarterly report containing performance measures 
     and data from each Veterans Benefits Administration Regional 
     Office:  Provided, That, at a minimum, the report shall 
     include the direction contained in the section entitled 
     ``Disability claims backlog'', under the heading ``General 
     Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration'' in the 
     joint explanatory statement accompanying Public Law 114-223: 
     Provided further, That the report shall also include 
     information on the number of appeals pending at the Veterans 
     Benefits Administration as well as the Board of Veterans 
     Appeals on a quarterly basis.
       Sec. 227.  Of the amounts made available for fiscal year 
     2018 for the ``Medical Services'' and ``Medical Support and 
     Compliance'' accounts, not more than $226,012,000 shall be 
     available to develop an electronic health record: Provided, 
     That not more than 25 percent of the amount made available 
     for such purpose may be obligated or expended until the 
     Secretary of Veterans Affairs submits to the Committees on 
     Appropriations of both House of Congress a detailed 
     explanation of the activities to develop the Military Health 
     System Genesis electronic health record to be funded by the 
     Veterans Health Administration rather than the Office of 
     Information Technology, a timeline for completion, master 
     schedule, performance milestones, and annual and life-cycle 
     Veterans Health Administration cost estimates.
       Sec. 228.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall provide 
     written notification to the Committees on Appropriations of 
     both Houses of Congress 15 days prior to organizational 
     changes which result in the transfer of 25 or more full-time 
     equivalents from one organizational unit of the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs to another.
       Sec. 229.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall provide 
     on a quarterly basis to the Committees on Appropriations of 
     both Houses of Congress notification of any single national 
     outreach and awareness marketing campaign in which 
     obligations exceed $2,000,000.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 230.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs, upon 
     determination that such action is necessary to address needs 
     of the Veterans Health Administration, may transfer to the 
     ``Medical Services'' account any discretionary appropriations 
     made available for fiscal year 2018 in this title (except 
     appropriations made to the ``General Operating Expenses, 
     Veterans Benefits Administration'' account) or any 
     discretionary unobligated balances within the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs, including those appropriated for fiscal 
     year 2018, that were provided in advance by appropriations 
     Acts:  Provided, That transfers shall be made only with the 
     approval of the Office of Management and Budget:  Provided 
     further, That the transfer authority provided in this section 
     is in addition to any other transfer authority provided by 
     law:  Provided further, That no amounts may be transferred 
     from amounts that were designated by Congress as an emergency 
     requirement pursuant to a concurrent resolution on the budget 
     or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
     1985:  Provided further, That such authority to transfer may 
     not be used unless for higher priority items, based on 
     emergent healthcare requirements, than those for which 
     originally appropriated and in no case where the item for 
     which funds are requested has been denied by Congress:  
     Provided further, That, upon determination that all or part 
     of the funds transferred from an appropriation are not 
     necessary, such amounts may be transferred back to that 
     appropriation and shall be available for the same purposes as 
     originally appropriated:  Provided further, That before a 
     transfer may take place, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
     shall request from the Committees on Appropriations of both 
     Houses of Congress the authority to make the transfer and 
     receive approval of that request.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 231.  Amounts made available for the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 2018, under the ``Board of 
     Veterans Appeals'' and the ``General Operating Expenses, 
     Veterans Benefits Administration'' accounts may be 
     transferred between such accounts:  Provided, That before a 
     transfer may take place, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
     shall request from the Committees on Appropriations of both 
     Houses of Congress the authority to make the transfer and 
     receive approval of that request.
       Sec. 232.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may not 
     reprogram funds among major construction projects or programs 
     if such instance of reprogramming will exceed $5,000,000, 
     unless such reprogramming is approved by the Committees on 
     Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.

                         (rescissions of funds)

       Sec. 233.  Of the discretionary funds made available in 
     Public Law 114-223 for the Department of Veterans Affairs for 
     fiscal year 2018, $313,730,000 are rescinded from ``Medical 
     Services'', $63,282,000 are rescinded from ``Medical Support 
     and Compliance'', and $22,960,000 are rescinded from 
     ``Medical Facilities''.
       Sec. 234.  The amounts otherwise made available by this Act 
     for the following accounts of the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs are hereby reduced by the following amounts:
       (1) ``Veterans Health Administration--Medical and 
     Prosthetic Research'', $6,823,000.
       (2) ``National Cemetery Administration'', $3,003,000.
       (3) ``Departmental Administration--General 
     Administration'', $3,600,000.
       (4) ``Departmental Administration--Board of Veterans 
     Appeals'', $1,579,000.
       (5) ``Departmental Administration--General Operating 
     Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration'', $35,470,000.
       (6) ``Departmental Administration--Information Technology 
     Systems'', $18,997,000.
       (7)``Departmental Administration--Office of Inspector 
     General'', $1,716,000.
       Sec. 235. (a) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
     ensure that the toll-free suicide hotline under section 
     1720F(h) of title 38, United States Code--
       (1) provides to individuals who contact the hotline 
     immediate assistance from a trained professional; and
       (2) adheres to all requirements of the American Association 
     of Suicidology.
       (b)(1) None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
     used to enforce or otherwise carry out any Executive action 
     that prohibits the Secretary of Veterans Affairs from 
     appointing an individual to occupy a vacant civil service 
     position, or establishing a new civil service position, at 
     the Department of Veterans Affairs with respect to such a 
     position relating to the hotline specified in subsection (a).
       (2) In this subsection--
       (A) the term ``civil service'' has the meaning given such 
     term in section 2101(1) of title 5, United States Code; and
       (B) the term ``Executive action'' includes--
       (i) any Executive order, presidential memorandum, or other 
     action by the President; and
       (ii) any agency policy, order, or other directive.
       Sec. 236.  None of the funds in this or any other Act may 
     be used to close Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) 
     hospitals, domiciliaries, or clinics, conduct an 
     environmental assessment, or to diminish healthcare services 
     at existing Veterans Health Administration medical facilities 
     located in Veterans Integrated Service Network 8 or 23 as 
     part of a planned realignment of VA services until the 
     Secretary provides to the Committees on Appropriations of 
     both Houses of Congress a report including the following 
     elements:
       (1) a national realignment strategy that includes a 
     detailed description of realignment plans within each 
     Veterans Integrated Services Network (VISN), including an 
     updated Long Range Capital Plan to implement realignment 
     requirements;
       (2) an explanation of the process by which those plans were 
     developed and coordinated within each VISN;
       (3) a cost versus benefit analysis of each planned 
     realignment, including the cost of replacing Veterans Health 
     Administration services with contract care or other 
     outsourced services;
       (4) an analysis of how any such planned realignment of 
     services will impact access to care for veterans living in 
     rural or highly rural areas, including travel distances and 
     transportation costs to access a VA medical facility and 
     availability of local specialty and primary care;
       (5) an inventory of VA buildings with historic designation 
     and the methodology used to determine the buildings' 
     condition and utilization;
       (6) a description of how any realignment will be consistent 
     with requirements under the National Historic Preservation 
     Act; and
       (7) consideration given for reuse of historic buildings 
     within newly identified realignment requirements: Provided, 
     That, this provision shall not apply to capital projects in 
     VISN 23, or any other VISN, which have been authorized or 
     approved by Congress.
       Sec. 237.  Section 8109(b) of title 38, United States Code, 
     is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (2) in paragraph (3), by striking the period and inserting 
     ``; and''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(4) notwithstanding subsection (a) of section 1344 of 
     title 31, may use a passenger carrier (as such term is 
     defined in subsection (h)(1) of such section) to transport 
     such an employee between a parking facility and the medical 
     facility of the Department at which the employee works.''.
       Sec. 238.  None of the funds made available to the 
     Secretary of Veterans Affairs by this or any other Act may be 
     obligated or expended in contravention of the ``Veterans 
     Health Administration Clinical Preventive Services Guidance 
     Statement on the Veterans Health Administration's Screening 
     for Breast Cancer Guidance'' published on May 10, 2017, as 
     issued by the Veterans Health Administration National Center 
     for Health Promotion and Disease Prevention.
       Sec. 239. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     the amounts appropriated or otherwise made available to the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs for the ``Medical Services'' 
     account may be used to provide--
       (1) fertility counseling and treatment using assisted 
     reproductive technology to a covered veteran or the spouse of 
     a covered veteran; or
       (2) adoption reimbursement to a covered veteran.

[[Page H6400]]

       (b) In this section:
       (1) The term ``service-connected'' has the meaning given 
     such term in section 101 of title 38, United States Code.
       (2) The term ``covered veteran'' means a veteran, as such 
     term is defined in section 101 of title 38, United States 
     Code, who has a service-connected disability that results in 
     the inability of the veteran to procreate without the use of 
     fertility treatment.
       (3) The term ``assisted reproductive technology'' means 
     benefits relating to reproductive assistance provided to a 
     member of the Armed Forces who incurs a serious injury or 
     illness on active duty pursuant to section 1074(c)(4)(A) of 
     title 10, United States Code, as described in the memorandum 
     on the subject of ``Policy for Assisted Reproductive Services 
     for the Benefit of Seriously or Severely Ill/Injured 
     (Category II or III) Active Duty Service Members'' issued by 
     the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs on 
     April 3, 2012, and the guidance issued to implement such 
     policy, including any limitations on the amount of such 
     benefits available to such a member except that --
       (A) the time periods regarding embryo cryopreservation and 
     storage set forth in part III(G) and in part IV(H) of such 
     memorandum shall not apply; and
       (B) such term includes embryo cryopreservation and storage 
     without limitation on the duration of such cryopreservation 
     and storage.
       (4) The term ``adoption reimbursement'' means reimbursement 
     for the adoption-related expenses for an adoption that is 
     finalized after the date of the enactment of this Act under 
     the same terms as apply under the adoption reimbursement 
     program of the Department of Defense, as authorized in 
     Department of Defense Instruction 1341.09, including the 
     reimbursement limits and requirements set forth in such 
     instruction.
       (c) Amounts made available for the purposes specified in 
     subsection (a) of this section are subject to the 
     requirements for funds contained in section 508 of division H 
     of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2017 (Public Law 115-
     31).

                               TITLE III

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                  American Battle Monuments Commission

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the 
     American Battle Monuments Commission, including the 
     acquisition of land or interest in land in foreign countries; 
     purchases and repair of uniforms for caretakers of national 
     cemeteries and monuments outside of the United States and its 
     territories and possessions; rent of office and garage space 
     in foreign countries; purchase (one-for-one replacement basis 
     only) and hire of passenger motor vehicles; not to exceed 
     $7,500 for official reception and representation expenses; 
     and insurance of official motor vehicles in foreign 
     countries, when required by law of such countries, 
     $75,100,000, to remain available until expended.

                 foreign currency fluctuations account

       For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the 
     American Battle Monuments Commission, such sums as may be 
     necessary, to remain available until expended, for purposes 
     authorized by section 2109 of title 36, United States Code.

           United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For necessary expenses for the operation of the United 
     States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims as authorized by 
     sections 7251 through 7298 of title 38, United States Code, 
     $33,600,000:  Provided, That of the amount, $800,000 shall be 
     transferred to the General Services Administration for 
     planning and design of a courthouse: Provided further, That 
     $2,580,000 shall be available for the purpose of providing 
     financial assistance as described and in accordance with the 
     process and reporting procedures set forth under this heading 
     in Public Law 102-229.

                      Department of Defense--Civil

                       Cemeterial Expenses, Army

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses for maintenance, operation, and 
     improvement of Arlington National Cemetery and Soldiers' and 
     Airmen's Home National Cemetery, including the purchase or 
     lease of passenger motor vehicles for replacement on a one-
     for-one basis only, and not to exceed $1,000 for official 
     reception and representation expenses, $78,800,000, of which 
     not to exceed $15,000,000 shall remain available until 
     September 30, 2020. In addition, such sums as may be 
     necessary for parking maintenance, repairs and replacement, 
     to be derived from the ``Lease of Department of Defense Real 
     Property for Defense Agencies'' account.

                      Armed Forces Retirement Home

                               trust fund

       For expenses necessary for the Armed Forces Retirement Home 
     to operate and maintain the Armed Forces Retirement Home--
     Washington, District of Columbia, and the Armed Forces 
     Retirement Home--Gulfport, Mississippi, to be paid from funds 
     available in the Armed Forces Retirement Home Trust Fund, 
     $64,300,000, of which $1,000,000 shall remain available until 
     expended for construction and renovation of the physical 
     plants at the Armed Forces Retirement Home--Washington, 
     District of Columbia, and the Armed Forces Retirement Home--
     Gulfport, Mississippi:  Provided, That of the amounts made 
     available under this heading from funds available in the 
     Armed Forces Retirement Home Trust Fund, $22,000,000 shall be 
     paid from the general fund of the Treasury to the Trust Fund.

                       Administrative Provisions

       Sec. 301.  Funds appropriated in this Act under the heading 
     ``Department of Defense--Civil, Cemeterial Expenses, Army'', 
     may be provided to Arlington County, Virginia, for the 
     relocation of the federally owned water main at Arlington 
     National Cemetery, making additional land available for 
     ground burials.
       Sec. 302.  Amounts deposited into the special account 
     established under 10 U.S.C. 4727 are appropriated and shall 
     be available until expended to support activities at the Army 
     National Military Cemeteries.

                                TITLE IV

                    OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS

                         DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                      Military Construction, Army

       For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, 
     Army'', $147,158,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2022, for projects outside of the United States:  Provided, 
     That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas 
     Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
     section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985.

              Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps

       For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Navy 
     and Marine Corps'', $31,890,000, to remain available until 
     September 30, 2022, for projects outside of the United 
     States:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
     Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
     Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                    Military Construction, Air Force

       For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Air 
     Force'' $434,652,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2022, for projects outside of the United States:  Provided, 
     That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas 
     Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
     section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                  Military Construction, Defense-Wide

       For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, 
     Defense-Wide'', $24,300,000, to remain available until 
     September 30, 2022, for projects outside of the United 
     States:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
     Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
     Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                        Administrative Provision

       Sec. 401.  Each amount designated in this Act by the 
     Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
     Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 
     shall be available only if the President subsequently so 
     designates all such amounts and transmits such designations 
     to the Congress.

                                TITLE V

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

       Sec. 501.  No part of any appropriation contained in this 
     Act shall remain available for obligation beyond the current 
     fiscal year unless expressly so provided herein.
       Sec. 502.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used for any program, project, or activity, when it is 
     made known to the Federal entity or official to which the 
     funds are made available that the program, project, or 
     activity is not in compliance with any Federal law relating 
     to risk assessment, the protection of private property 
     rights, or unfunded mandates.
       Sec. 503.  All departments and agencies funded under this 
     Act are encouraged, within the limits of the existing 
     statutory authorities and funding, to expand their use of 
     ``E-Commerce'' technologies and procedures in the conduct of 
     their business practices and public service activities.
       Sec. 504.  Unless stated otherwise, all reports and 
     notifications required by this Act shall be submitted to the 
     Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, 
     and Related Agencies of the Committee on Appropriations of 
     the House of Representatives and the Subcommittee on Military 
     Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies of 
     the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.
       Sec. 505.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality 
     of the United States Government except pursuant to a transfer 
     made by, or transfer authority provided in, this or any other 
     appropriations Act.
       Sec. 506.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used for a project or program named for an individual 
     serving as a Member, Delegate, or Resident Commissioner of 
     the United States House of Representatives.
       Sec. 507. (a) Any agency receiving funds made available in 
     this Act, shall, subject to subsections (b) and (c), post on 
     the public Web site of that agency any report required to be 
     submitted by the Congress in this or any other Act, upon the 
     determination by the head of the agency that it shall serve 
     the national interest.
       (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to a report if--
       (1) the public posting of the report compromises national 
     security; or
       (2) the report contains confidential or proprietary 
     information.
       (c) The head of the agency posting such report shall do so 
     only after such report has been made available to the 
     requesting Committee or Committees of Congress for no less 
     than 45 days.
       Sec. 508. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act 
     may be used to maintain or establish a computer network 
     unless such network blocks the viewing, downloading, and 
     exchanging of pornography.
       (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
     necessary for any Federal, State,

[[Page H6401]]

     tribal, or local law enforcement agency or any other entity 
     carrying out criminal investigations, prosecution, or 
     adjudication activities.
       Sec. 509.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used by an agency of the executive branch to pay for 
     first-class travel by an employee of the agency in 
     contravention of sections 301-10.122 through 301-10.124 of 
     title 41, Code of Federal Regulations.
       Sec. 510.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used to execute a contract for goods or services, 
     including construction services, where the contractor has not 
     complied with Executive Order No. 12989.
       Sec. 511.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used by the Department of Defense or the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs to lease or purchase new light duty vehicles 
     for any executive fleet, or for an agency's fleet inventory, 
     except in accordance with Presidential Memorandum--Federal 
     Fleet Performance, dated May 24, 2011.
       Sec. 512. (a) In General.--None of the funds appropriated 
     or otherwise made available to the Department of Defense in 
     this Act may be used to construct, renovate, or expand any 
     facility in the United States, its territories, or 
     possessions to house any individual detained at United States 
     Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, for the purposes of 
     detention or imprisonment in the custody or under the control 
     of the Department of Defense.
       (b) The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply to 
     any modification of facilities at United States Naval 
     Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
       (c) An individual described in this subsection is any 
     individual who, as of June 24, 2009, is located at United 
     States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and who--
       (1) is not a citizen of the United States or a member of 
     the Armed Forces of the United States; and
       (2) is--
       (A) in the custody or under the effective control of the 
     Department of Defense; or
       (B) otherwise under detention at United States Naval 
     Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

                           references to act

       Sec. 513.  Except as expressly provided otherwise, any 
     reference to ``this Act'' contained in this division shall be 
     treated as referring only to the provisions of this division.

                          reference to report

       Sec. 514.  Any reference to a ``report accompanying this 
     Act'' contained in this division shall be treated as a 
     reference to House Report 115-188. The effect of such Report 
     shall be limited to this division and shall apply for 
     purposes of determining the allocation of funds provided by, 
     and the implementation of, this division.

                       spending reduction account

       Sec. 515.  $0.
       This division may be cited as the ``Military Construction, 
     Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
     2018''.

     DIVISION D--ENERGY AND WATER DEVELOPMENT AND RELATED AGENCIES 
                        APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2018

        The following sums are appropriated, out of any money in 
     the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for energy and water 
     development and related agencies for the fiscal year ending 
     September 30, 2018, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                       CORPS OF ENGINEERS--CIVIL

                         DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

                       Corps of Engineers--Civil

       The following appropriations shall be expended under the 
     direction of the Secretary of the Army and the supervision of 
     the Chief of Engineers for authorized civil functions of the 
     Department of the Army pertaining to river and harbor, flood 
     and storm damage reduction, shore protection, aquatic 
     ecosystem restoration, and related efforts.

                             investigations

       For expenses necessary where authorized by law for the 
     collection and study of basic information pertaining to river 
     and harbor, flood and storm damage reduction, shore 
     protection, aquatic ecosystem restoration, and related needs; 
     for surveys and detailed studies, and plans and 
     specifications of proposed river and harbor, flood and storm 
     damage reduction, shore protection, and aquatic ecosystem 
     restoration projects, and related efforts prior to 
     construction; for restudy of authorized projects; and for 
     miscellaneous investigations, and, when authorized by law, 
     surveys and detailed studies, and plans and specifications of 
     projects prior to construction, $105,000,000, to remain 
     available until expended: Provided, That the Secretary shall 
     initiate six new study starts during fiscal year 2018: 
     Provided further, That the new study starts shall consist of 
     five studies where the majority of the benefits are derived 
     from navigation transportation savings or from flood and 
     storm damage reduction and one study where the majority of 
     benefits are derived from environmental restoration: Provided 
     further, That the Secretary shall not deviate from the new 
     starts proposed in the work plan, once the plan has been 
     submitted to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
     of Congress.

                              construction

       For expenses necessary for the construction of river and 
     harbor, flood and storm damage reduction, shore protection, 
     aquatic ecosystem restoration, and related projects 
     authorized by law; for conducting detailed studies, and plans 
     and specifications, of such projects (including those 
     involving participation by States, local governments, or 
     private groups) authorized or made eligible for selection by 
     law (but such detailed studies, and plans and specifications, 
     shall not constitute a commitment of the Government to 
     construction); $1,697,000,000, to remain available until 
     expended; of which such sums as are necessary to cover the 
     Federal share of construction costs for facilities under the 
     Dredged Material Disposal Facilities program shall be derived 
     from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund as authorized by 
     Public Law 104-303; and of which such sums as are necessary 
     to cover one-half of the costs of construction, replacement, 
     rehabilitation, and expansion of inland waterways projects 
     shall be derived from the Inland Waterways Trust Fund, except 
     as otherwise specifically provided for in law: Provided, That 
     the Secretary may initiate up to, but not more than, two new 
     construction starts during fiscal year 2018: Provided 
     further, That the new construction starts shall consist of 
     two projects where the majority of the benefits are derived 
     from navigation transportation savings, flood and storm 
     damage reduction, or environmental restoration: Provided 
     further, That for new construction projects, project cost 
     sharing agreements shall be executed as soon as practicable 
     but no later than August 31, 2018: Provided further, That no 
     allocation for a new start shall be considered final and no 
     work allowance shall be made until the Secretary provides to 
     the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 
     an out-year funding scenario demonstrating the affordability 
     of the selected new starts and the impacts on other projects: 
     Provided further, That the Secretary may not deviate from the 
     new starts proposed in the work plan, once the plan has been 
     submitted to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
     of Congress.

                   mississippi river and tributaries

       For expenses necessary for flood damage reduction projects 
     and related efforts in the Mississippi River alluvial valley 
     below Cape Girardeau, Missouri, as authorized by law, 
     $301,000,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
     such sums as are necessary to cover the Federal share of 
     eligible operation and maintenance costs for inland harbors 
     shall be derived from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund.

                       operation and maintenance

       For expenses necessary for the operation, maintenance, and 
     care of existing river and harbor, flood and storm damage 
     reduction, aquatic ecosystem restoration, and related 
     projects authorized by law; providing security for 
     infrastructure owned or operated by the Corps, including 
     administrative buildings and laboratories; maintaining harbor 
     channels provided by a State, municipality, or other public 
     agency that serve essential navigation needs of general 
     commerce, where authorized by law; surveying and charting 
     northern and northwestern lakes and connecting waters; 
     clearing and straightening channels; and removing 
     obstructions to navigation, $3,519,000,000, to remain 
     available until expended, of which such sums as are necessary 
     to cover the Federal share of eligible operation and 
     maintenance costs for coastal harbors and channels, and for 
     inland harbors shall be derived from the Harbor Maintenance 
     Trust Fund; of which such sums as become available from the 
     special account for the Corps of Engineers established by the 
     Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 shall be derived 
     from that account for resource protection, research, 
     interpretation, and maintenance activities related to 
     resource protection in the areas at which outdoor recreation 
     is available; and of which such sums as become available from 
     fees collected under section 217 of Public Law 104-303 shall 
     be used to cover the cost of operation and maintenance of the 
     dredged material disposal facilities for which such fees have 
     been collected: Provided, That 1 percent of the total amount 
     of funds provided for each of the programs, projects, or 
     activities funded under this heading shall not be allocated 
     to a field operating activity prior to the beginning of the 
     fourth quarter of the fiscal year and shall be available for 
     use by the Chief of Engineers to fund such emergency 
     activities as the Chief of Engineers determines to be 
     necessary and appropriate, and that the Chief of Engineers 
     shall allocate during the fourth quarter any remaining funds 
     which have not been used for emergency activities 
     proportionally in accordance with the amounts provided for 
     the programs, projects, or activities.

                           regulatory program

       For expenses necessary for administration of laws 
     pertaining to regulation of navigable waters and wetlands, 
     $200,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019.

            formerly utilized sites remedial action program

       For expenses necessary to clean up contamination from sites 
     in the United States resulting from work performed as part of 
     the Nation's early atomic energy program, $118,000,000, to 
     remain available until expended.

                 flood control and coastal emergencies

       For expenses necessary to prepare for flood, hurricane, and 
     other natural disasters and support emergency operations, 
     repairs, and other activities in response to such disasters 
     as authorized by law, $32,000,000, to remain available until 
     expended.

                                expenses

       For expenses necessary for the supervision and general 
     administration of the civil works program in the headquarters 
     of the Corps of Engineers and the offices of the Division 
     Engineers; and for costs of management and operation of the 
     Humphreys Engineer Center Support Activity, the Institute for 
     Water Resources, the United States Army Engineer Research and 
     Development Center, and the United States Army Corps of 
     Engineers Finance Center allocable to the civil works 
     program, $181,000,000, to remain available until September 
     30, 2019, of which not to exceed $5,000 may be used for 
     official reception and representation purposes and

[[Page H6402]]

     only during the current fiscal year: Provided, That no part 
     of any other appropriation provided in this title shall be 
     available to fund the civil works activities of the Office of 
     the Chief of Engineers or the civil works executive direction 
     and management activities of the division offices: Provided 
     further, That any Flood Control and Coastal Emergencies 
     appropriation may be used to fund the supervision and general 
     administration of emergency operations, repairs, and other 
     activities in response to any flood, hurricane, or other 
     natural disaster.

     office of the assistant secretary of the army for civil works

       For the Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Army for 
     Civil Works as authorized by 10 U.S.C. 3016(b)(3), 
     $4,764,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019: 
     Provided, That not more than 75 percent of such amount may be 
     obligated or expended until the Assistant Secretary submits 
     to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
     Congress a work plan that allocates at least 95 percent of 
     the additional funding provided under each heading in this 
     title (as designated under such heading in the report of the 
     Committee on Appropriations accompanying this Act) to 
     specific programs, projects, or activities.

             GENERAL PROVISIONS--CORPS OF ENGINEERS--CIVIL

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 101. (a) None of the funds provided in this title 
     shall be available for obligation or expenditure through a 
     reprogramming of funds that--
       (1) creates or initiates a new program, project, or 
     activity;
       (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity;
       (3) increases funds or personnel for any program, project, 
     or activity for which funds have been denied or restricted by 
     this Act;
       (4) reduces funds that are directed to be used for a 
     specific program, project, or activity by this Act;
       (5) increases funds for any program, project, or activity 
     by more than $2,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less; or
       (6) reduces funds for any program, project, or activity by 
     more than $2,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less.
       (b) Subsection (a)(1) shall not apply to any project or 
     activity authorized under section 205 of the Flood Control 
     Act of 1948, section 14 of the Flood Control Act of 1946, 
     section 208 of the Flood Control Act of 1954, section 107 of 
     the River and Harbor Act of 1960, section 103 of the River 
     and Harbor Act of 1962, section 111 of the River and Harbor 
     Act of 1968, section 1135 of the Water Resources Development 
     Act of 1986, section 206 of the Water Resources Development 
     Act of 1996, or section 204 of the Water Resources 
     Development Act of 1992.
       (c) The Corps of Engineers shall submit reports on a 
     quarterly basis to the Committees on Appropriations of both 
     Houses of Congress detailing all the funds reprogrammed 
     between programs, projects, activities, or categories of 
     funding. The first quarterly report shall be submitted not 
     later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
       Sec. 102.  None of the funds made available in this title 
     may be used to award or modify any contract that commits 
     funds beyond the amounts appropriated for that program, 
     project, or activity that remain unobligated, except that 
     such amounts may include any funds that have been made 
     available through reprogramming pursuant to section 101.
       Sec. 103.  The Secretary of the Army may transfer to the 
     Fish and Wildlife Service, and the Fish and Wildlife Service 
     may accept and expend, up to $5,400,000 of funds provided in 
     this title under the heading ``Operation and Maintenance'' to 
     mitigate for fisheries lost due to Corps of Engineers 
     projects.
       Sec. 104.  None of the funds in this Act shall be used for 
     an open lake placement alternative for dredged material, 
     after evaluating the least costly, environmentally acceptable 
     manner for the disposal or management of dredged material 
     originating from Lake Erie or tributaries thereto, unless it 
     is approved under a State water quality certification 
     pursuant to section 401 of the Federal Water Pollution 
     Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1341); Provided further, That until an 
     open lake placement alternative for dredged material is 
     approved under a State water quality certification, the Corps 
     of Engineers shall continue upland placement of such dredged 
     material consistent with the requirements of section 101 of 
     the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 (33 U.S.C. 2211).
       Sec. 105.  None of the funds made available in this title 
     may be used for any acquisition that is not consistent with 
     48 CFR 225.7007.
       Sec. 106.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to carry out any water supply reallocation study 
     under the Wolf Creek Dam, Lake Cumberland, Kentucky, project 
     authorized under the Act of July 24, 1946 (60 Stat. 636, ch. 
     595).
       Sec. 107.  Notwithstanding section 404(f)(2) of the Federal 
     Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1344(f)(2)), none of 
     the funds made available by this Act may be used to require a 
     permit for the discharge of dredged or fill material under 
     the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et 
     seq.) for the activities identified in subparagraphs (A) and 
     (C) of section 404(f)(1) of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1344(f)(1)(A), 
     (C)).
       Sec. 108. (a) Authorization.--The Administrator of the 
     Environmental Protection Agency and the Secretary of the Army 
     may withdraw the Waters of the United States rule without 
     regard to any provision of statute or regulation that 
     establishes a requirement for such withdrawal.
       (b) Effect of Withdrawal.--Except as otherwise provided by 
     any Act or rule that takes effect after the date of enactment 
     of this Act, if the Administrator of the Environmental 
     Protection Agency and the Secretary of the Army withdraw the 
     Waters of the United States rule under subsection (a), the 
     Administrator and Secretary shall implement the provisions of 
     law under which such rule was issued in accordance with the 
     regulations and guidance in effect under such provisions 
     immediately before the effective date of such rule.
       (c) Definitions.--In this section the term ``Waters of the 
     United States rule'' means the final rule issued by the 
     Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and the 
     Secretary of the Army entitled ``Clean Water Rule: Definition 
     of `Waters of the United States' '' on June 29, 2015 (80 Fed. 
     Reg. 37053).
       Sec. 109.  As of the date of enactment of this Act and each 
     fiscal year thereafter, the Secretary of the Army shall not 
     promulgate or enforce any regulation that prohibits an 
     individual from possessing a firearm, including an assembled 
     or functional firearm, at a water resources development 
     project covered under section 327.0 of title 36, Code of 
     Federal Regulations (as in effect on the date of enactment of 
     this Act), if--
       (1) the individual is not otherwise prohibited by law from 
     possessing the firearm; and
       (2) the possession of the firearm is in compliance with the 
     law of the State in which the water resources development 
     project is located.

                                TITLE II

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                          Central Utah Project

                central utah project completion account

       For carrying out activities authorized by the Central Utah 
     Project Completion Act, $8,983,000, to remain available until 
     expended, of which $898,000 shall be deposited into the Utah 
     Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Account for use by 
     the Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission: 
     Provided, That of the amount provided under this heading, 
     $1,450,000 shall be available until September 30, 2019, for 
     expenses necessary in carrying out related responsibilities 
     of the Secretary of the Interior: Provided further, That for 
     fiscal year 2018, of the amount made available to the 
     Commission under this Act or any other Act, the Commission 
     may use an amount not to exceed $1,500,000 for administrative 
     expenses.

                         Bureau of Reclamation

       The following appropriations shall be expended to execute 
     authorized functions of the Bureau of Reclamation:

                      water and related resources

                     (including transfers of funds)

       For management, development, and restoration of water and 
     related natural resources and for related activities, 
     including the operation, maintenance, and rehabilitation of 
     reclamation and other facilities, participation in fulfilling 
     related Federal responsibilities to Native Americans, and 
     related grants to, and cooperative and other agreements with, 
     State and local governments, federally recognized Indian 
     tribes, and others, $1,091,790,000, to remain available until 
     expended, of which $67,693,000 shall be available for 
     transfer to the Upper Colorado River Basin Fund and 
     $5,551,000 shall be available for transfer to the Lower 
     Colorado River Basin Development Fund; of which such amounts 
     as may be necessary may be advanced to the Colorado River Dam 
     Fund: Provided, That such transfers may be increased or 
     decreased within the overall appropriation under this 
     heading: Provided further, That of the total appropriated, 
     the amount for program activities that can be financed by the 
     Reclamation Fund or the Bureau of Reclamation special fee 
     account established by 16 U.S.C. 6806 shall be derived from 
     that Fund or account: Provided further, That funds 
     contributed under 43 U.S.C. 395 are available until expended 
     for the purposes for which the funds were contributed: 
     Provided further, That funds advanced under 43 U.S.C. 397a 
     shall be credited to this account and are available until 
     expended for the same purposes as the sums appropriated under 
     this heading: Provided further, That of the amounts provided 
     herein, funds may be used for high-priority projects which 
     shall be carried out by the Youth Conservation Corps, as 
     authorized by 16 U.S.C. 1706.

                central valley project restoration fund

       For carrying out the programs, projects, plans, habitat 
     restoration, improvement, and acquisition provisions of the 
     Central Valley Project Improvement Act, $41,376,000, to be 
     derived from such sums as may be collected in the Central 
     Valley Project Restoration Fund pursuant to sections 3407(d), 
     3404(c)(3), and 3405(f) of Public Law 102-575, to remain 
     available until expended: Provided, That the Bureau of 
     Reclamation is directed to assess and collect the full amount 
     of the additional mitigation and restoration payments 
     authorized by section 3407(d) of Public Law 102-575: Provided 
     further, That none of the funds made available under this 
     heading may be used for the acquisition or leasing of water 
     for in-stream purposes if the water is already committed to 
     in-stream purposes by a court adopted decree or order.

                    california bay-delta restoration

                     (including transfers of funds)

       For carrying out activities authorized by the Water Supply, 
     Reliability, and Environmental Improvement Act, consistent 
     with plans to be approved by the Secretary of the Interior, 
     $37,000,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
     such amounts as may be necessary to carry out such activities 
     may be transferred to appropriate accounts of other 
     participating Federal agencies to carry out authorized 
     purposes: Provided, That funds appropriated herein may be 
     used for the Federal share of the costs of CALFED Program 
     management: Provided further, That CALFED implementation 
     shall be carried out in a balanced manner with clear

[[Page H6403]]

     performance measures demonstrating concurrent progress in 
     achieving the goals and objectives of the Program.

                       policy and administration

       For expenses necessary for policy, administration, and 
     related functions in the Office of the Commissioner, the 
     Denver office, and offices in the five regions of the Bureau 
     of Reclamation, to remain available until September 30, 2019, 
     $59,000,000, to be derived from the Reclamation Fund and be 
     nonreimbursable as provided in 43 U.S.C. 377: Provided, That 
     no part of any other appropriation in this Act shall be 
     available for activities or functions budgeted as policy and 
     administration expenses.

                        administrative provision

       Appropriations for the Bureau of Reclamation shall be 
     available for purchase of not to exceed five passenger motor 
     vehicles, which are for replacement only.

             GENERAL PROVISIONS--DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

       Sec. 201. (a) None of the funds provided in this title 
     shall be available for obligation or expenditure through a 
     reprogramming of funds that--
       (1) creates or initiates a new program, project, or 
     activity;
       (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity;
       (3) increases funds for any program, project, or activity 
     for which funds have been denied or restricted by this Act;
       (4) restarts or resumes any program, project or activity 
     for which funds are not provided in this Act, unless prior 
     approval is received from the Committees on Appropriations of 
     both Houses of Congress;
       (5) transfers funds in excess of the following limits--
       (A) 15 percent for any program, project or activity for 
     which $2,000,000 or more is available at the beginning of the 
     fiscal year; or
       (B) $400,000 for any program, project or activity for which 
     less than $2,000,000 is available at the beginning of the 
     fiscal year;
       (6) transfers more than $500,000 from either the Facilities 
     Operation, Maintenance, and Rehabilitation category or the 
     Resources Management and Development category to any program, 
     project, or activity in the other category; or
       (7) transfers, where necessary to discharge legal 
     obligations of the Bureau of Reclamation, more than 
     $5,000,000 to provide adequate funds for settled contractor 
     claims, increased contractor earnings due to accelerated 
     rates of operations, and real estate deficiency judgments.
       (b) Subsection (a)(5) shall not apply to any transfer of 
     funds within the Facilities Operation, Maintenance, and 
     Rehabilitation category.
       (c) For purposes of this section, the term ``transfer'' 
     means any movement of funds into or out of a program, 
     project, or activity.
       (d) The Bureau of Reclamation shall submit reports on a 
     quarterly basis to the Committees on Appropriations of both 
     Houses of Congress detailing all the funds reprogrammed 
     between programs, projects, activities, or categories of 
     funding. The first quarterly report shall be submitted not 
     later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
       Sec. 202. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available by this Act may be used to determine the final 
     point of discharge for the interceptor drain for the San Luis 
     Unit until development by the Secretary of the Interior and 
     the State of California of a plan, which shall conform to the 
     water quality standards of the State of California as 
     approved by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
     Agency, to minimize any detrimental effect of the San Luis 
     drainage waters.
       (b) The costs of the Kesterson Reservoir Cleanup Program 
     and the costs of the San Joaquin Valley Drainage Program 
     shall be classified by the Secretary of the Interior as 
     reimbursable or nonreimbursable and collected until fully 
     repaid pursuant to the ``Cleanup Program--Alternative 
     Repayment Plan'' and the ``SJVDP--Alternative Repayment 
     Plan'' described in the report entitled ``Repayment Report, 
     Kesterson Reservoir Cleanup Program and San Joaquin Valley 
     Drainage Program, February 1995'', prepared by the Department 
     of the Interior, Bureau of Reclamation. Any future 
     obligations of funds by the United States relating to, or 
     providing for, drainage service or drainage studies for the 
     San Luis Unit shall be fully reimbursable by San Luis Unit 
     beneficiaries of such service or studies pursuant to Federal 
     reclamation law.
       Sec. 203.  None of the funds in this Act shall be available 
     to implement the Stipulation of Settlement (Natural Resources 
     Defense Council, et al. v. Kirk Rodgers, et al., Eastern 
     District of California, No. Civ. 9 S-88-1658 LKK/GGH) or 
     subtitle A of title X of Public Law 111-11.

                               TITLE III

                          DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

                            ENERGY PROGRAMS

                 Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy

       For Department of Energy expenses including the purchase, 
     construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment, 
     and other expenses necessary for energy efficiency and 
     renewable energy activities in carrying out the purposes of 
     the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et 
     seq.), including the acquisition or condemnation of any real 
     property or any facility or for plant or facility 
     acquisition, construction, or expansion, $1,103,908,000, to 
     remain available until expended: Provided, That of such 
     amount, $125,849,000 shall be available until September 30, 
     2019, for program direction.

              Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability

       For Department of Energy expenses including the purchase, 
     construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment, 
     and other expenses necessary for electricity delivery and 
     energy reliability activities in carrying out the purposes of 
     the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et 
     seq.), including the acquisition or condemnation of any real 
     property or any facility or for plant or facility 
     acquisition, construction, or expansion, $218,500,000, to 
     remain available until expended: Provided, That of such 
     amount, $27,500,000 shall be available until September 30, 
     2019, for program direction.

                             Nuclear Energy

       For Department of Energy expenses including the purchase, 
     construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment, 
     and other expenses necessary for nuclear energy activities in 
     carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy 
     Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the 
     acquisition or condemnation of any real property or any 
     facility or for plant or facility acquisition, construction, 
     or expansion, $969,000,000, to remain available until 
     expended: Provided, That of such amount, $70,000,000 shall be 
     available until September 30, 2019, for program direction.

                 Fossil Energy Research and Development

       For Department of Energy expenses necessary in carrying out 
     fossil energy research and development activities, under the 
     authority of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 
     U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition of interest, 
     including defeasible and equitable interests in any real 
     property or any facility or for plant or facility acquisition 
     or expansion, and for conducting inquiries, technological 
     investigations and research concerning the extraction, 
     processing, use, and disposal of mineral substances without 
     objectionable social and environmental costs (30 U.S.C. 3, 
     1602, and 1603), $634,600,000, to remain available until 
     expended: Provided, That of such amount $60,000,000 shall be 
     available until September 30, 2019, for program direction.

                 Naval Petroleum and Oil Shale Reserves

       For Department of Energy expenses necessary to carry out 
     naval petroleum and oil shale reserve activities, $4,900,000, 
     to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
     notwithstanding any other provision of law, unobligated funds 
     remaining from prior years shall be available for all naval 
     petroleum and oil shale reserve activities.

                      Strategic Petroleum Reserve

       For Department of Energy expenses necessary for Strategic 
     Petroleum Reserve facility development and operations and 
     program management activities pursuant to the Energy Policy 
     and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6201 et seq.), $252,000,000, 
     to remain available until expended: Provided, That as 
     authorized by section 404 of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 
     2015 (Public Law 114-74; 42 U.S.C. 6239 note), the Secretary 
     of Energy shall draw down and sell not to exceed $350,000,000 
     of crude oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve in fiscal 
     year 2018: Provided further, That the proceeds from such 
     drawdown and sale shall be deposited into the ``Energy 
     Security and Infrastructure Modernization Fund'' during 
     fiscal year 2018 and shall be made available and shall remain 
     available until expended for necessary expenses in carrying 
     out the Life Extension II project for the Strategic Petroleum 
     Reserve.

                   Northeast Home Heating Oil Reserve

       For Department of Energy expenses necessary for Northeast 
     Home Heating Oil Reserve storage, operation, and management 
     activities pursuant to the Energy Policy and Conservation Act 
     (42 U.S.C. 6201 et seq.), $6,500,000, to remain available 
     until expended.

                   Energy Information Administration

       For Department of Energy expenses necessary in carrying out 
     the activities of the Energy Information Administration, 
     $118,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                   Non-Defense Environmental Cleanup

       For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
     construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment 
     and other expenses necessary for non-defense environmental 
     cleanup activities in carrying out the purposes of the 
     Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et 
     seq.), including the acquisition or condemnation of any real 
     property or any facility or for plant or facility 
     acquisition, construction, or expansion, $222,400,000, to 
     remain available until expended.

      Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund

       For Department of Energy expenses necessary in carrying out 
     uranium enrichment facility decontamination and 
     decommissioning, remedial actions, and other activities of 
     title II of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 and title X, 
     subtitle A, of the Energy Policy Act of 1992, $768,000,000, 
     to be derived from the Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and 
     Decommissioning Fund, to remain available until expended, of 
     which $32,959,000 shall be available in accordance with title 
     X, subtitle A, of the Energy Policy Act of 1992.

                                Science

       For Department of Energy expenses including the purchase, 
     construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment, 
     and other expenses necessary for science activities in 
     carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy 
     Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the 
     acquisition or condemnation of any real property or facility 
     or for plant or facility acquisition, construction, or 
     expansion, and purchase of not more than 16 passenger motor 
     vehicles for replacement only, including one ambulance and 
     one bus, $5,392,000,000, to

[[Page H6404]]

     remain available until expended: Provided, That of such 
     amount, $177,000,000 shall be available until September 30, 
     2019, for program direction.

                         Nuclear Waste Disposal

       For Department of Energy expenses necessary for nuclear 
     waste disposal activities to carry out the purposes of the 
     Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, Public Law 97-425, as 
     amended (hereinafter referred to as the ``NWPA''), including 
     the acquisition of any real property or facility 
     construction, or expansion, $90,000,000, to remain available 
     until expended, and to be derived from the Nuclear Waste 
     Fund: Provided, That of the funds made available in this Act 
     for nuclear waste disposal and defense nuclear waste disposal 
     activities, 1.62 percent shall be provided to the Office of 
     the Attorney General of the State of Nevada solely for 
     expenditures, other than salaries and expenses of State 
     employees, to conduct scientific oversight responsibilities 
     and participate in licensing activities pursuant to the NWPA: 
     Provided further, That of the funds made available in this 
     Act for nuclear waste disposal and defense nuclear waste 
     disposal activities, 2.91 percent shall be provided to 
     affected units of local government, as defined in the NWPA, 
     to conduct appropriate activities and participate in 
     licensing activities under Section 116(c) of the NWPA: 
     Provided further, That of the amounts provided to affected 
     units of local government, 7.5 percent of the funds provided 
     for the affected units of local government shall be made 
     available to affected units of local government in California 
     with the balance made available to affected units of local 
     government in Nevada for distribution as determined by the 
     Nevada affected units of local government: Provided further, 
     That of the funds made available in this Act for nuclear 
     waste disposal and defense nuclear waste disposal activities, 
     0.16 percent shall be provided to the affected Federally-
     recognized Indian tribes, as defined in the NWPA, solely for 
     expenditures, other than salaries and expenses of tribal 
     employees, to conduct appropriate activities and participate 
     in licensing activities under section 118(b) of the NWPA: 
     Provided further, That of the funds made available in this 
     Act for nuclear waste disposal and defense nuclear waste 
     disposal activities, 3.0 percent shall be provided to Nye 
     County, Nevada, 0.05 percent shall be provided to Clark 
     County, Nevada, and 0.46 percent shall be provided to the 
     State of Nevada as payment equal to taxes under section 
     116(c)(3) of the NWPA: Provided further, That within 90 days 
     of the completion of each Federal fiscal year, the Office of 
     the Attorney General of the State of Nevada, each affected 
     Federally-recognized Indian tribe, and each of the affected 
     units of local government shall provide certification to the 
     Department of Energy that all funds expended from such 
     payments have been expended for activities authorized by the 
     NWPA and this Act: Provided further, That failure to provide 
     such certification shall cause such entity to be prohibited 
     from any further funding provided for similar activities: 
     Provided further, That none of the funds herein appropriated 
     may be: (1) used for litigation expenses; or (2) used for 
     interim storage activities; or (3) used to support multi-
     State efforts or other coalition building activities 
     inconsistent with the restrictions contained in this Act: 
     Provided further, That all proceeds and recoveries realized 
     by the Secretary in carrying out activities authorized by the 
     NWPA, including but not limited to any proceeds from the sale 
     of assets, shall be credited to this account, to remain 
     available until expended, for carrying out the purposes of 
     this account.

         Title 17 Innovative Technology Loan Guarantee Program

                    (including rescissions of funds)

       Such sums as are derived from amounts received from 
     borrowers pursuant to section 1702(b) of the Energy Policy 
     Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16512(b)) under this heading in prior 
     Acts, shall be collected in accordance with section 502(7) of 
     the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided, That for 
     necessary administrative expenses to carry out this Loan 
     Guarantee program, $2,000,000 is appropriated, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2019: Provided further, That 
     $2,000,000 of the fees collected pursuant to section 1702(h) 
     of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 shall be credited as 
     offsetting collections to this account to cover 
     administrative expenses and shall remain available until 
     expended, so as to result in a final fiscal year 2018 
     appropriation from the general fund estimated at not more 
     than $0: Provided further, That fees collected under section 
     1702(h) in excess of the amount appropriated for 
     administrative expenses shall not be available until 
     appropriated: Provided further, That the Department of Energy 
     shall not subordinate any loan obligation to other financing 
     in violation of section 1702 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 
     or subordinate any Guaranteed Obligation to any loan or other 
     debt obligations in violation of section 609.10 of title 10, 
     Code of Federal Regulations: Provided further, That of the 
     subsidy amounts provided by section 1425 of the Department of 
     Defense and Full-Year Continuing Appropriations Act, 2011 
     (Public Law 112-10; 125 Stat. 126), for the cost of loan 
     guarantees for renewable energy or efficient end-use energy 
     technologies under section 1703 of the Energy Policy Act of 
     2005 (42 U.S.C. 16513), $160,660,000 is hereby rescinded: 
     Provided further, That the authority provided in prior year 
     appropriations Acts for commitments to guarantee loans under 
     title XVII of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, excluding 
     amounts for commitments made by October 1, 2017, is hereby 
     rescinded.

        Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Loan Program

       For Department of Energy administrative expenses necessary 
     in carrying out the Advanced Technology Vehicles 
     Manufacturing Loan Program, $5,000,000, to remain available 
     until September 30, 2019.

                  Tribal Energy Loan Guarantee Program

       For Department of Energy administrative expenses necessary 
     in carrying out the Tribal Energy Loan Guarantee Program, 
     $500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019.

                      Departmental Administration

       For salaries and expenses of the Department of Energy 
     necessary for departmental administration in carrying out the 
     purposes of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 
     U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), $281,693,000, to remain available until 
     September 30, 2019, including the hire of passenger motor 
     vehicles and official reception and representation expenses 
     not to exceed $30,000, plus such additional amounts as 
     necessary to cover increases in the estimated amount of cost 
     of work for others notwithstanding the provisions of the 
     Anti-Deficiency Act (31 U.S.C. 1511 et seq.): Provided, That 
     such increases in cost of work are offset by revenue 
     increases of the same or greater amount: Provided further, 
     That moneys received by the Department for miscellaneous 
     revenues estimated to total $96,000,000 in fiscal year 2018 
     may be retained and used for operating expenses within this 
     account, as authorized by section 201 of Public Law 95-238, 
     notwithstanding the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3302: Provided 
     further, That the sum herein appropriated shall be reduced as 
     collections are received during the fiscal year so as to 
     result in a final fiscal year 2018 appropriation from the 
     general fund estimated at not more than $185,693,000.

                    Office of the Inspector General

       For expenses necessary for the Office of the Inspector 
     General in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector 
     General Act of 1978, $49,000,000, to remain available until 
     September 30, 2019.

                    ATOMIC ENERGY DEFENSE ACTIVITIES

                NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION

                           Weapons Activities

       For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
     construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment 
     and other incidental expenses necessary for atomic energy 
     defense weapons activities in carrying out the purposes of 
     the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et 
     seq.), including the acquisition or condemnation of any real 
     property or any facility or for plant or facility 
     acquisition, construction, or expansion, $10,239,344,000, to 
     remain available until expended: Provided, That of such 
     amount, $105,600,000 shall be available until September 30, 
     2019, for program direction.

                    Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation

                    (including rescission of funds)

       For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
     construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment 
     and other incidental expenses necessary for defense nuclear 
     nonproliferation activities, in carrying out the purposes of 
     the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et 
     seq.), including the acquisition or condemnation of any real 
     property or any facility or for plant or facility 
     acquisition, construction, or expansion, $1,825,461,000, to 
     remain available until expended: Provided, That funds 
     provided by this Act for Project 99-D-143, Mixed Oxide Fuel 
     Fabrication Facility, and by prior Acts that remain 
     unobligated for such Project, may be made available only for 
     construction and project support activities for such Project: 
      Provided further, That of the unobligated balances from 
     prior year appropriations available under this heading, 
     $49,000,000 is hereby rescinded: Provided further, That no 
     amounts may be rescinded from amounts that were designated by 
     the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a 
     concurrent resolution on the budget or the Balanced Budget 
     and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                             Naval Reactors

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For Department of Energy expenses necessary for naval 
     reactors activities to carry out the Department of Energy 
     Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the 
     acquisition (by purchase, condemnation, construction, or 
     otherwise) of real property, plant, and capital equipment, 
     facilities, and facility expansion, $1,486,000,000, to remain 
     available until expended, of which, $82,500,000 shall be 
     transferred to ``Department of Energy--Energy Programs--
     Nuclear Energy'', for the Advanced Test Reactor: Provided, 
     That of such amount, $46,651,000 shall be available until 
     September 30, 2019, for program direction.

                     Federal Salaries and Expenses

       For expenses necessary for Federal Salaries and Expenses in 
     the National Nuclear Security Administration, $412,595,000, 
     to remain available until September 30, 2019, including 
     official reception and representation expenses not to exceed 
     $12,000.

               ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER DEFENSE ACTIVITIES

                     Defense Environmental Cleanup

       For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
     construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment 
     and other expenses necessary for atomic energy defense 
     environmental cleanup activities in carrying out the purposes 
     of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 
     et seq.), including the acquisition or condemnation of any 
     real property or any facility or for plant or facility 
     acquisition, construction, or expansion, $5,405,000,000, to 
     remain available until expended: Provided, That of such 
     amount, $300,000,000 shall be available until September 30, 
     2019, for program direction.

[[Page H6405]]

  


                        Other Defense Activities

       For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
     construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment 
     and other expenses, necessary for atomic energy defense, 
     other defense activities, and classified activities, in 
     carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy 
     Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the 
     acquisition or condemnation of any real property or any 
     facility or for plant or facility acquisition, construction, 
     or expansion, $825,000,000, to remain available until 
     expended: Provided, That of such amount, $284,400,000 shall 
     be available until September 30, 2019, for program direction.

                     Defense Nuclear Waste Disposal

       For Department of Energy expenses necessary for nuclear 
     waste disposal activities to carry out the purposes of the 
     Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, as amended, including the 
     acquisition of real property or facility construction or 
     expansion, $30,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                    POWER MARKETING ADMINISTRATIONS

                  Bonneville Power Administration Fund

       Expenditures from the Bonneville Power Administration Fund, 
     established pursuant to Public Law 93-454, are approved for 
     official reception and representation expenses in an amount 
     not to exceed $5,000: Provided, That during fiscal year 2018, 
     no new direct loan obligations may be made.

      Operation and Maintenance, Southeastern Power Administration

       For expenses necessary for operation and maintenance of 
     power transmission facilities and for marketing electric 
     power and energy, including transmission wheeling and 
     ancillary services, pursuant to section 5 of the Flood 
     Control Act of 1944 (16 U.S.C. 825s), as applied to the 
     southeastern power area, $6,379,000, including official 
     reception and representation expenses in an amount not to 
     exceed $1,500, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
     That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302 and section 5 of the 
     Flood Control Act of 1944, up to $6,379,000 collected by the 
     Southeastern Power Administration from the sale of power and 
     related services shall be credited to this account as 
     discretionary offsetting collections, to remain available 
     until expended for the sole purpose of funding the annual 
     expenses of the Southeastern Power Administration: Provided 
     further, That the sum herein appropriated for annual expenses 
     shall be reduced as collections are received during the 
     fiscal year so as to result in a final fiscal year 2018 
     appropriation estimated at not more than $0: Provided 
     further, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, up to 
     $51,000,000 collected by the Southeastern Power 
     Administration pursuant to the Flood Control Act of 1944 to 
     recover purchase power and wheeling expenses shall be 
     credited to this account as offsetting collections, to remain 
     available until expended for the sole purpose of making 
     purchase power and wheeling expenditures: Provided further, 
     That for purposes of this appropriation, annual expenses 
     means expenditures that are generally recovered in the same 
     year that they are incurred (excluding purchase power and 
     wheeling expenses).

      Operation and Maintenance, Southwestern Power Administration

       For expenses necessary for operation and maintenance of 
     power transmission facilities and for marketing electric 
     power and energy, for construction and acquisition of 
     transmission lines, substations and appurtenant facilities, 
     and for administrative expenses, including official reception 
     and representation expenses in an amount not to exceed $1,500 
     in carrying out section 5 of the Flood Control Act of 1944 
     (16 U.S.C. 825s), as applied to the Southwestern Power 
     Administration, $30,288,000, to remain available until 
     expended: Provided, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302 and 
     section 5 of the Flood Control Act of 1944 (16 U.S.C. 825s), 
     up to $18,888,000 collected by the Southwestern Power 
     Administration from the sale of power and related services 
     shall be credited to this account as discretionary offsetting 
     collections, to remain available until expended, for the sole 
     purpose of funding the annual expenses of the Southwestern 
     Power Administration: Provided further, That the sum herein 
     appropriated for annual expenses shall be reduced as 
     collections are received during the fiscal year so as to 
     result in a final fiscal year 2018 appropriation estimated at 
     not more than $11,400,000: Provided further, That 
     notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, up to $10,000,000 collected 
     by the Southwestern Power Administration pursuant to the 
     Flood Control Act of 1944 to recover purchase power and 
     wheeling expenses shall be credited to this account as 
     offsetting collections, to remain available until expended 
     for the sole purpose of making purchase power and wheeling 
     expenditures: Provided further, That for purposes of this 
     appropriation, annual expenses means expenditures that are 
     generally recovered in the same year that they are incurred 
     (excluding purchase power and wheeling expenses).

 Construction, Rehabilitation, Operation and Maintenance, Western Area 
                          Power Administration

       For carrying out the functions authorized by title III, 
     section 302(a)(1)(E) of the Act of August 4, 1977 (42 U.S.C. 
     7152), and other related activities including conservation 
     and renewable resources programs as authorized, $232,276,000, 
     including official reception and representation expenses in 
     an amount not to exceed $1,500, to remain available until 
     expended, of which $230,251,000 shall be derived from the 
     Department of the Interior Reclamation Fund: Provided, That 
     notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, section 5 of the Flood 
     Control Act of 1944 (16 U.S.C. 825s), and section 1 of the 
     Interior Department Appropriation Act, 1939 (43 U.S.C. 392a), 
     up to $138,904,000 collected by the Western Area Power 
     Administration from the sale of power and related services 
     shall be credited to this account as discretionary offsetting 
     collections, to remain available until expended, for the sole 
     purpose of funding the annual expenses of the Western Area 
     Power Administration: Provided further, That the sum herein 
     appropriated for annual expenses shall be reduced as 
     collections are received during the fiscal year so as to 
     result in a final fiscal year 2018 appropriation estimated at 
     not more than $93,372,000, of which $91,347,000 is derived 
     from the Reclamation Fund: Provided further, That 
     notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, up to $179,000,000 collected 
     by the Western Area Power Administration pursuant to the 
     Flood Control Act of 1944 and the Reclamation Project Act of 
     1939 to recover purchase power and wheeling expenses shall be 
     credited to this account as offsetting collections, to remain 
     available until expended for the sole purpose of making 
     purchase power and wheeling expenditures: Provided further, 
     That for purposes of this appropriation, annual expenses 
     means expenditures that are generally recovered in the same 
     year that they are incurred (excluding purchase power and 
     wheeling expenses).

           Falcon and Amistad Operating and Maintenance Fund

       For operation, maintenance, and emergency costs for the 
     hydroelectric facilities at the Falcon and Amistad Dams, 
     $4,176,000, to remain available until expended, and to be 
     derived from the Falcon and Amistad Operating and Maintenance 
     Fund of the Western Area Power Administration, as provided in 
     section 2 of the Act of June 18, 1954 (68 Stat. 255): 
     Provided, That notwithstanding the provisions of that Act and 
     of 31 U.S.C. 3302, up to $3,948,000 collected by the Western 
     Area Power Administration from the sale of power and related 
     services from the Falcon and Amistad Dams shall be credited 
     to this account as discretionary offsetting collections, to 
     remain available until expended for the sole purpose of 
     funding the annual expenses of the hydroelectric facilities 
     of these Dams and associated Western Area Power 
     Administration activities: Provided further, That the sum 
     herein appropriated for annual expenses shall be reduced as 
     collections are received during the fiscal year so as to 
     result in a final fiscal year 2018 appropriation estimated at 
     not more than $228,000: Provided further, That for purposes 
     of this appropriation, annual expenses means expenditures 
     that are generally recovered in the same year that they are 
     incurred: Provided further, That for fiscal year 2018, the 
     Administrator of the Western Area Power Administration may 
     accept up to $872,000 in funds contributed by United States 
     power customers of the Falcon and Amistad Dams for deposit 
     into the Falcon and Amistad Operating and Maintenance Fund, 
     and such funds shall be available for the purpose for which 
     contributed in like manner as if said sums had been 
     specifically appropriated for such purpose: Provided further, 
     That any such funds shall be available without further 
     appropriation and without fiscal year limitation for use by 
     the Commissioner of the United States Section of the 
     International Boundary and Water Commission for the sole 
     purpose of operating, maintaining, repairing, rehabilitating, 
     replacing, or upgrading the hydroelectric facilities at these 
     Dams in accordance with agreements reached between the 
     Administrator, Commissioner, and the power customers.

                  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission

                         salaries and expenses

       For expenses necessary for the Federal Energy Regulatory 
     Commission to carry out the provisions of the Department of 
     Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including 
     services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, official reception 
     and representation expenses not to exceed $3,000, and the 
     hire of passenger motor vehicles, $367,600,000, to remain 
     available until expended: Provided, That notwithstanding any 
     other provision of law, not to exceed $367,600,000 of 
     revenues from fees and annual charges, and other services and 
     collections in fiscal year 2018 shall be retained and used 
     for expenses necessary in this account, and shall remain 
     available until expended: Provided further, That the sum 
     herein appropriated from the general fund shall be reduced as 
     revenues are received during fiscal year 2018 so as to result 
     in a final fiscal year 2018 appropriation from the general 
     fund estimated at not more than $0.

                GENERAL PROVISIONS--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 301. (a) No appropriation, funds, or authority made 
     available by this title for the Department of Energy shall be 
     used to initiate or resume any program, project, or activity 
     or to prepare or initiate Requests For Proposals or similar 
     arrangements (including Requests for Quotations, Requests for 
     Information, and Funding Opportunity Announcements) for a 
     program, project, or activity if the program, project, or 
     activity has not been funded by Congress.
       (b)(1) Unless the Secretary of Energy notifies the 
     Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress at 
     least 3 full business days in advance, none of the funds made 
     available in this title may be used to--
       (A) make a grant allocation or discretionary grant award 
     totaling $1,000,000 or more;
       (B) make a discretionary contract award or Other 
     Transaction Agreement totaling $1,000,000 or more, including 
     a contract covered by the Federal Acquisition Regulation;
       (C) issue a letter of intent to make an allocation, award, 
     or Agreement in excess of the limits in subparagraph (A) or 
     (B); or
       (D) announce publicly the intention to make an allocation, 
     award, or Agreement in excess of the limits in subparagraph 
     (A) or (B).

[[Page H6406]]

       (2) The Secretary of Energy shall submit to the Committees 
     on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress within 15 days 
     of the conclusion of each quarter a report detailing each 
     grant allocation or discretionary grant award totaling less 
     than $1,000,000 provided during the previous quarter.
       (3) The notification required by paragraph (1) and the 
     report required by paragraph (2) shall include the recipient 
     of the award, the amount of the award, the fiscal year for 
     which the funds for the award were appropriated, the account 
     and program, project, or activity from which the funds are 
     being drawn, the title of the award, and a brief description 
     of the activity for which the award is made.
       (c) The Department of Energy may not, with respect to any 
     program, project, or activity that uses budget authority made 
     available in this title under the heading ``Department of 
     Energy--Energy Programs'', enter into a multiyear contract, 
     award a multiyear grant, or enter into a multiyear 
     cooperative agreement unless--
       (1) the contract, grant, or cooperative agreement is funded 
     for the full period of performance as anticipated at the time 
     of award; or
       (2) the contract, grant, or cooperative agreement includes 
     a clause conditioning the Federal Government's obligation on 
     the availability of future year budget authority and the 
     Secretary notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both 
     Houses of Congress at least 3 days in advance.
       (d) Except as provided in subsections (e), (f), and (g), 
     the amounts made available by this title shall be expended as 
     authorized by law for the programs, projects, and activities 
     specified in the ``Bill'' column in the ``Department of 
     Energy'' table included under the heading ``Title III--
     Department of Energy'' in the report of the Committee on 
     Appropriations accompanying this Act.
       (e) The amounts made available by this title may be 
     reprogrammed for any program, project, or activity, and the 
     Department shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of 
     both Houses of Congress at least 30 days prior to the use of 
     any proposed reprogramming that would cause any program, 
     project, or activity funding level to increase or decrease by 
     more than $5,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less, during 
     the time period covered by this Act.
       (f) None of the funds provided in this title shall be 
     available for obligation or expenditure through a 
     reprogramming of funds that--
       (1) creates, initiates, or eliminates a program, project, 
     or activity;
       (2) increases funds or personnel for any program, project, 
     or activity for which funds are denied or restricted by this 
     Act; or
       (3) reduces funds that are directed to be used for a 
     specific program, project, or activity by this Act.
       (g)(1) The Secretary of Energy may waive any requirement or 
     restriction in this section that applies to the use of funds 
     made available for the Department of Energy if compliance 
     with such requirement or restriction would pose a substantial 
     risk to human health, the environment, welfare, or national 
     security.
       (2) The Secretary of Energy shall notify the Committees on 
     Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of any waiver under 
     paragraph (1) as soon as practicable, but not later than 3 
     days after the date of the activity to which a requirement or 
     restriction would otherwise have applied. Such notice shall 
     include an explanation of the substantial risk under 
     paragraph (1) that permitted such waiver.
       (h) The unexpended balances of prior appropriations 
     provided for activities in this Act may be available to the 
     same appropriation accounts for such activities established 
     pursuant to this title. Available balances may be merged with 
     funds in the applicable established accounts and thereafter 
     may be accounted for as one fund for the same time period as 
     originally enacted.
       Sec. 302.  Funds appropriated by this or any other Act, or 
     made available by the transfer of funds in this Act, for 
     intelligence activities are deemed to be specifically 
     authorized by the Congress for purposes of section 504 of the 
     National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3094) during fiscal 
     year 2018 until the enactment of the Intelligence 
     Authorization Act for fiscal year 2018.
       Sec. 303.  None of the funds made available in this title 
     shall be used for the construction of facilities classified 
     as high-hazard nuclear facilities under 10 CFR Part 830 
     unless independent oversight is conducted by the Office of 
     Enterprise Assessments to ensure the project is in compliance 
     with nuclear safety requirements.
       Sec. 304.  None of the funds made available in this title 
     may be used to approve critical decision-2 or critical 
     decision-3 under Department of Energy Order 413.3B, or any 
     successive departmental guidance, for construction projects 
     where the total project cost exceeds $100,000,000, until a 
     separate independent cost estimate has been developed for the 
     project for that critical decision.
       Sec. 305. (a) None of the funds made available in this or 
     any prior Act under the heading ``Defense Nuclear 
     Nonproliferation'' may be made available to enter into new 
     contracts with, or new agreements for Federal assistance to, 
     the Russian Federation.
       (b) The Secretary of Energy may waive the prohibition in 
     subsection (a) if the Secretary determines that such activity 
     is in the national security interests of the United States. 
     This waiver authority may not be delegated.
       (c) A waiver under subsection (b) shall not be effective 
     until 15 days after the date on which the Secretary submits 
     to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
     Congress, in classified form if necessary, a report on the 
     justification for the waiver.
       Sec. 306.  Notwithstanding section 161 of the Energy Policy 
     and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6241), upon a determination 
     by the President in this fiscal year that a regional supply 
     shortage of refined petroleum product of significant scope 
     and duration exists, that a severe increase in the price of 
     refined petroleum product will likely result from such 
     shortage, and that a draw down and sale of refined petroleum 
     product would assist directly and significantly in reducing 
     the adverse impact of such shortage, the Secretary of Energy 
     may draw down and sell refined petroleum product from the 
     Strategic Petroleum Reserve. Proceeds from a sale under this 
     section shall be deposited into the SPR Petroleum Account 
     established in section 167 of the Energy Policy and 
     Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6247), and such amounts shall be 
     available for obligation, without fiscal year limitation, 
     consistent with that section.
       Sec. 307. (a) Drawdown and Sale.--Notwithstanding section 
     161 of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 
     6241), and in addition to sales authorized in sections 403 
     and 404 of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 (42 U.S.C. 6241; 
     42 U.S.C. 6239 note) and section 5010 of the 21st Century 
     Cures Act (42 U.S.C. 6241 note), the Secretary of Energy 
     shall draw down and sell up to $8,400,000 of crude oil from 
     the Strategic Petroleum Reserve during this fiscal year.
       (b) Proceeds.--Proceeds from a sale under this section 
     shall be deposited into the SPR Petroleum Account during this 
     fiscal year and shall be available for the costs of crude oil 
     sales authorized in sections 403 and 404 of the Bipartisan 
     Budget Act of 2015 (42 U.S.C. 6241; 42 U.S.C. 6239 note) and 
     section 5010 of the 21st Century Cures Act (42 U.S.C. 6241 
     note), to remain available until expended.
       (c) Emergency Protection.--The Secretary shall not draw 
     down and sell crude oil under this section in amounts that 
     would limit the authority to sell petroleum products under 
     section 161(h) of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 
     U.S.C. 6241(h)) in the full amount authorized by that 
     subsection.
       Sec. 308. (a) New Regional Reserves.--The Secretary of 
     Energy may not establish any new regional petroleum product 
     reserve unless funding for the proposed regional petroleum 
     product reserve is explicitly requested in advance in an 
     annual budget submission and approved by the Congress in an 
     appropriations Act.
       (b) The budget request or notification shall include--
       (1) the justification for the new reserve;
       (2) a cost estimate for the establishment, operation, and 
     maintenance of the reserve, including funding sources;
       (3) a detailed plan for operation of the reserve, including 
     the conditions upon which the products may be released;
       (4) the location of the reserve; and
       (5) the estimate of the total inventory of the reserve.
       Sec. 309.  Of the amounts made available under this title, 
     not more than $267,901,000 may be transferred to the working 
     capital fund established under section 653 of the Department 
     of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7263).

                                TITLE IV

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                    Appalachian Regional Commission

       For expenses necessary to carry out the programs authorized 
     by the Appalachian Regional Development Act of 1965, and for 
     expenses necessary for the Federal Co-Chairman and the 
     Alternate on the Appalachian Regional Commission, for payment 
     of the Federal share of the administrative expenses of the 
     Commission, including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
     3109, and hire of passenger motor vehicles, $130,000,000, to 
     remain available until expended.

                Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board

                         salaries and expenses

       For expenses necessary for the Defense Nuclear Facilities 
     Safety Board in carrying out activities authorized by chapter 
     21 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2286 et seq.), 
     $30,600,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019.

                        Delta Regional Authority

                         salaries and expenses

       For expenses necessary for the Delta Regional Authority and 
     to carry out its activities, as authorized by the Delta 
     Regional Authority Act of 2000, notwithstanding sections 
     382C(b)(2), 382F(d), 382M, and 382N of said Act, $15,000,000, 
     to remain available until expended.

                           Denali Commission

       For expenses necessary for the Denali Commission including 
     the purchase, construction, and acquisition of plant and 
     capital equipment as necessary and other expenses, 
     $11,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
     notwithstanding the limitations contained in section 306(g) 
     of the Denali Commission Act of 1998: Provided, That funds 
     shall be available for construction projects in an amount not 
     to exceed 80 percent of total project cost for distressed 
     communities, as defined by section 307 of the Denali 
     Commission Act of 1998 (division C, title III, Public Law 
     105-277), as amended by section 701 of appendix D, title VII, 
     Public Law 106-113 (113 Stat. 1501A-280), and an amount not 
     to exceed 50 percent for non-distressed communities: Provided 
     further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law 
     regarding payment of a non-Federal share in connection with a 
     grant-in-aid program, amounts under this heading shall be 
     available for the payment of such a non-Federal share for 
     programs undertaken to carry out the purposes of the 
     Commission.

                  Northern Border Regional Commission

       For expenses necessary for the Northern Border Regional 
     Commission in carrying out activities authorized by subtitle 
     V of title 40, United States Code, $5,000,000, to remain 
     available until expended: Provided, That such amounts shall 
     be available for administrative expenses, notwithstanding 
     section 15751(b) of title 40, United States Code.

[[Page H6407]]

  


                 Southeast Crescent Regional Commission

       For expenses necessary for the Southeast Crescent Regional 
     Commission in carrying out activities authorized by subtitle 
     V of title 40, United States Code, $250,000, to remain 
     available until expended.

                     Nuclear Regulatory Commission

                         salaries and expenses

       For expenses necessary for the Commission in carrying out 
     the purposes of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 and the 
     Atomic Energy Act of 1954, $939,137,000, including official 
     representation expenses not to exceed $25,000, to remain 
     available until expended, of which $30,000,000 shall be 
     derived from the Nuclear Waste Fund: Provided, That of the 
     amount appropriated herein, not more than $9,500,000 may be 
     made available for salaries, travel, and other support costs 
     for the Office of the Commission, to remain available until 
     September 30, 2019, of which, notwithstanding section 
     201(a)(2)(c) of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 (42 
     U.S.C. 5841(a)(2)(c)), the use and expenditure shall only be 
     approved by a majority vote of the Commission: Provided 
     further, That revenues from licensing fees, inspection 
     services, and other services and collections estimated at 
     $779,829,000 in fiscal year 2018 shall be retained and used 
     for necessary salaries and expenses in this account, 
     notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, and shall remain available 
     until expended: Provided further, That of the amounts 
     appropriated under this heading, not less than $10,000,000 
     shall be for activities related to the development of 
     regulatory infrastructure for advanced nuclear technologies, 
     and $16,200,000 shall be for international activities, except 
     that the amounts provided under this proviso shall not be 
     derived from fee revenues, notwithstanding 42 U.S.C. 2214:  
     Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated shall be 
     reduced by the amount of revenues received during fiscal year 
     2018 so as to result in a final fiscal year 2018 
     appropriation estimated at not more than $159,308,000: 
     Provided further, That of the amounts appropriated under this 
     heading, $10,000,000 shall be for university research and 
     development in areas relevant to the Commission's mission, 
     and $5,000,000 shall be for a Nuclear Science and Engineering 
     Grant Program that will support multiyear projects that do 
     not align with programmatic missions but are critical to 
     maintaining the discipline of nuclear science and 
     engineering.

                      office of inspector general

       For expenses necessary for the Office of Inspector General 
     in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act 
     of 1978, $12,859,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2019: Provided, That revenues from licensing fees, inspection 
     services, and other services and collections estimated at 
     $10,555,000 in fiscal year 2018 shall be retained and be 
     available until September 30, 2019, for necessary salaries 
     and expenses in this account, notwithstanding section 3302 of 
     title 31, United States Code: Provided further, That the sum 
     herein appropriated shall be reduced by the amount of 
     revenues received during fiscal year 2018 so as to result in 
     a final fiscal year 2018 appropriation estimated at not more 
     than $2,304,000: Provided further, That of the amounts 
     appropriated under this heading, $1,131,000 shall be for 
     Inspector General services for the Defense Nuclear Facilities 
     Safety Board, which shall not be available from fee revenues.

                  Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board

                         salaries and expenses

       For expenses necessary for the Nuclear Waste Technical 
     Review Board, as authorized by Public Law 100-203, section 
     5051, $3,600,000, to be derived from the Nuclear Waste Fund, 
     to remain available until September 30, 2019.

                GENERAL PROVISIONS--INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

       Sec. 401.  The Nuclear Regulatory Commission shall comply 
     with the July 5, 2011, version of chapter VI of its Internal 
     Commission Procedures when responding to Congressional 
     requests for information.
       Sec. 402. (a) The amounts made available by this title for 
     the Nuclear Regulatory Commission may be reprogrammed for any 
     program, project, or activity, and the Commission shall 
     notify the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
     Congress at least 30 days prior to the use of any proposed 
     reprogramming that would cause any program funding level to 
     increase or decrease by more than $500,000 or 10 percent, 
     whichever is less, during the time period covered by this 
     Act.
       (b)(1) The Nuclear Regulatory Commission may waive the 
     notification requirement in subsection (a) if compliance with 
     such requirement would pose a substantial risk to human 
     health, the environment, welfare, or national security.
       (2) The Nuclear Regulatory Commission shall notify the 
     Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of 
     any waiver under paragraph (1) as soon as practicable, but 
     not later than 3 days after the date of the activity to which 
     a requirement or restriction would otherwise have applied. 
     Such notice shall include an explanation of the substantial 
     risk under paragraph (1) that permitted such waiver and shall 
     provide a detailed report to the Committees of such waiver 
     and changes to funding levels to programs, projects, or 
     activities.
       (c) Except as provided in subsections (a), (b), and (d), 
     the amounts made available by this title for ``Nuclear 
     Regulatory Commission--Salaries and Expenses'' shall be 
     expended as directed in the report of the Committee on 
     Appropriations accompanying this Act.
       (d) None of the funds provided for the Nuclear Regulatory 
     Commission shall be available for obligation or expenditure 
     through a reprogramming of funds that increases funds or 
     personnel for any program, project, or activity for which 
     funds are denied or restricted by this Act.
       (e) The Commission shall provide a monthly report to the 
     Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress, 
     which includes the following for each program, project, or 
     activity, including any prior year appropriations--
       (1) total budget authority;
       (2) total unobligated balances; and
       (3) total unliquidated obligations.

                                TITLE V

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

       Sec. 501.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may 
     be used in any way, directly or indirectly, to influence 
     congressional action on any legislation or appropriation 
     matters pending before Congress, other than to communicate to 
     Members of Congress as described in 18 U.S.C. 1913.
       Sec. 502. (a) None of the funds made available in title III 
     of this Act may be transferred to any department, agency, or 
     instrumentality of the United States Government, except 
     pursuant to a transfer made by or transfer authority provided 
     in this Act or any other appropriations Act for any fiscal 
     year, transfer authority referenced in the report of the 
     Committee on Appropriations accompanying this Act, or any 
     authority whereby a department, agency, or instrumentality of 
     the United States Government may provide goods or services to 
     another department, agency, or instrumentality.
       (b) None of the funds made available for any department, 
     agency, or instrumentality of the United States Government 
     may be transferred to accounts funded in title III of this 
     Act, except pursuant to a transfer made by or transfer 
     authority provided in this Act or any other appropriations 
     Act for any fiscal year, transfer authority referenced in the 
     report of the Committee on Appropriations accompanying this 
     Act, or any authority whereby a department, agency, or 
     instrumentality of the United States Government may provide 
     goods or services to another department, agency, or 
     instrumentality.
       (c) The head of any relevant department or agency funded in 
     this Act utilizing any transfer authority shall submit to the 
     Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a 
     semiannual report detailing the transfer authorities, except 
     for any authority whereby a department, agency, or 
     instrumentality of the United States Government may provide 
     goods or services to another department, agency, or 
     instrumentality, used in the previous 6 months and in the 
     year-to-date. This report shall include the amounts 
     transferred and the purposes for which they were transferred, 
     and shall not replace or modify existing notification 
     requirements for each authority.
       Sec. 503.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used in contravention of Executive Order No. 12898 of 
     February 11, 1994 (Federal Actions to Address Environmental 
     Justice in Minority Populations and Low-Income Populations).
       Sec. 504. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act 
     may be used to maintain or establish a computer network 
     unless such network blocks the viewing, downloading, and 
     exchanging of pornography.
       (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
     necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law 
     enforcement agency or any other entity carrying out criminal 
     investigations, prosecution, or adjudication activities.
       Sec. 505.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to further implementation of the coastal and marine 
     spatial planning and ecosystem-based management components of 
     the National Ocean Policy developed under Executive Order No. 
     13547 of July 19, 2010.
       Sec. 506.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used for the removal of any federally owned or operated 
     dam unless the removal was previously authorized by Congress.
       Sec. 507.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to conduct closure of adjudicatory functions, 
     technical review, or support activities associated with the 
     Yucca Mountain geologic repository license application, or 
     for actions that irrevocably remove the possibility that 
     Yucca Mountain may be a repository option in the future.

                           references to act

       Sec. 508.  Except as expressly provided otherwise, any 
     reference to ``this Act'' contained in this division shall be 
     treated as referring only to the provisions of this division.

                          reference to report

       Sec. 509.  Any reference to a ``report accompanying this 
     Act'' contained in this division shall be treated as a 
     reference to House Report 115-230. The effect of such Report 
     shall be limited to this division and shall apply for 
     purposes of determining the allocation of funds provided by, 
     and the implementation of, this division.

                       spending reduction account

       Sec. 510.  $0.
       This Act may be cited as the ``Energy and Water Development 
     and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2018''.

  The Acting CHAIR. No further amendment to the bill shall be in order 
except those printed in House Report 115-259, amendments en bloc 
described in section 3 of House Resolution 473, and pro forma 
amendments described in section 4 of that resolution.
  Each further amendment printed in the report shall be considered only 
in the order printed in the report, may be offered only by a Member 
designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be 
debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and 
controlled by the proponent and an opponent, may be withdrawn by the 
proponent at any time before action thereon, shall not be subject to 
amendment except as provided by section 4 of

[[Page H6408]]

House Resolution 473, and shall not be subject to a demand for division 
of the question.
  It shall be in order at any time for the chair of the Committee on 
Appropriations or his designee to offer amendments en bloc consisting 
of amendments printed in the report not earlier disposed of. Amendments 
en bloc shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for 20 minutes 
equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on Appropriations or their respective designees, shall 
not be subject to amendment, except as provided by section 4 of House 
Resolution 473, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of 
the question.
  During consideration of the bill for amendment, the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on Appropriations or their respective 
designees may offer up to 20 pro forma amendments each at any point for 
the purpose of debate.


                Amendment No. 1 Offered by Mr. Connolly

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 1 
printed in House Report 115-259.
  Mr. CONNOLLY. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 163, line 25, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $1,022,250)''.
       Page 164, line 23, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $1,022,250)''.
       Page 189, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $1,000,000)''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 473, the gentleman 
from Virginia (Mr. Connolly) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Virginia.
  Mr. CONNOLLY. Mr. Chairman, I rise today to offer an amendment that 
would increase funding for the Government Accountability Office, offset 
by a minor decrease in the funding for the MRA accounts here in the 
House of Representatives.
  I am offering the amendment for three reasons:
  First, the bill significantly underfunds the GAO.
  Second, the administration is actively thwarting congressional 
oversight, which we need more of, not less of.
  Finally, Congress, which struck an aggressive posture in oversight 
during the previous administration, seems to have lost its way a bit in 
its constitutional duty to oversee the activities of this executive 
branch.
  The GAO is a vital resource not only for congressional overseers, but 
also anyone interested in studying or improving the effectiveness of 
Federal agencies. The GAO is often referred to as the congressional 
watchdog. I am sure every Member of Congress has supported or requested 
a GAO report with the purpose of examining broad and discrete issues of 
executive branch oversight at some point in their career. It is a vital 
institution that saves taxpayer dollars.
  Every dollar we invest in the GAO, Mr. Chairman, generates a $112 
return for the Federal Government and for the taxpayer. This oversight 
dividend amounted to $63 billion in financial benefits for the Federal 
Government in fiscal year 2016 alone.
  Unfortunately, the bill before us provides $46.2 million less than 
the budget request for fiscal year 2018. This amendment would simply 
restore a modest $1 million of it.
  I know the lack of sufficient funding for the GAO has been a topic of 
discussion and debate between the majority and minority on the 
Appropriations Committee. I would note that the ranking member raised 
the issue in the ``Additional Views'' section of the committee report.
  In the report, Ranking Member Lowey and Representative Tim Ryan, who 
is with us on the floor, stated it is irresponsible to underfund the 
GAO, especially when administration officials have reportedly been 
ordered not to comply with Democratic oversight requests.
  Which brings me to my second reason for offering the amendment: the 
indifferent and at times outright adversarial approach the Trump 
administration has decided to take to normal routine congressional 
oversight work. The administration has ignored the seven-member rule, 
for example, an authority enacted into law in 1928, which delegates 
authority to any seven members of my committee, the Committee on 
Oversight and Government Reform, to require any executive branch agency 
to submit any information requested of it relating to any matter within 
the jurisdiction of our committee.
  The Trump administration released an opinion issued by the Office of 
Legal Counsel, arguing that agencies and departments could ignore 
requests for documents and other information from Members of the 
minority party.
  On June 7, Republican Senator Chuck Grassley, who certainly knew the 
benefit of getting information requests in the minority answered, wrote 
a scathing letter to President Trump urging him to reject the opinion. 
The opinion stated that only requests from committees or their chairs 
are constitutionally authorized. Senator Grassley, Republican chairman 
of the Judiciary Committee in the Senate, called the opinion nonsense.
  In his letter to the President, he stated: ``For OLC to fundamentally 
misunderstand and misstate such a simple fact exposes its shocking lack 
of professionalism and objectivity.''
  He also wrote: ``Oversight brings transparency, and transparency 
brings accountability. And the opposite is true. Shutting down 
oversight requests doesn't drain the swamp.''
  Those are the words of Chuck Grassley.
  As the vice ranking member of the Oversight and Government Reform 
Committee, I have witnessed firsthand the committee's volte-face on 
issues of oversight.
  Whereas, during the Obama administration, one would have thought 
that, like the British Empire, the Sun never set on the jurisdiction of 
our committee. Now, suddenly, the majority advances a tortured and 
narrow interpretation of the committee's role as the primary oversight 
body for the House of Representatives.
  If the administration is going to ignore the minority in Congress and 
the majority is suddenly allergic to congressional oversight, the 
demands on the GAO are going to grow.
  With that greater responsibility should come greater resources. First 
and foremost, the House should join Senator Grassley and demand that 
this administration not impede congressional oversight activities.
  In the absence of the administration acceding to this request, we 
have got to send a clear message about the importance to the executive 
branch of accountability by better funding the GAO.
  This amendment will not solve the GAO funding created by this bill, 
but it would send a message to our colleagues in the Senate about the 
premium we place on the principle of robust oversight of the executive 
branch.
  Mr. Chair, I rise today to offer an amendment which would increase 
funding for the Government Accountability Office (GAO) and offset that 
increase with a reduction in funding for the salaries and expenses of 
the House of Representatives.
  I am offering this amendment for three reasons.
  First, this bill significantly underfunds GAO.
  Second, this administration is actively thwarting congressional 
oversight.
  And finally, Congress, which struck an aggressive posture on 
oversight during the Obama Administration, seems to have forgotten its 
Constitutional duty to oversee the activities of the Executive Branch.
  GAO is a vital resource for not only Congressional overseers, but 
also anyone interested in studying or improving the effectiveness of 
federal agencies and the way in which they carry out their vital 
missions.
  GAO is often referred to as the ``congressional watchdog.''
  I am sure nearly every Member of Congress has supported or requested 
a GAO report with the purpose of examining broad and discrete issues of 
Executive Branch oversight.
  It is a vital institution that helps ensure taxpayer dollars are 
invested wisely.
  Every dollar we invest in GAO generates a $112 return for the federal 
government. This oversight dividend amounted to $63 billion in 
financial benefits for the federal government in fiscal year 2016.
  Unfortunately, the bill before us provides $46.2 million less than 
the budget request for FY 2018, which would result in the loss of 200 
GAO staff by the end of the coming fiscal year.

[[Page H6409]]

  I know the lack of sufficient funding for GAO has been a topic of 
discussion and debate between the Majority and the Minority on the 
Appropriations Committee.
  I would note that the Ranking Member raised this issue in the 
``Additional Views'' section of the Committee report for the 
Legislative Branch Appropriations Bill.
  In the report, Ranking Member Lowey and Representative Tim Ryan 
stated, ``It is irresponsible to underfund the GAO, especially when 
Administration officials have reportedly been ordered not to comply 
with Democratic oversight requests.''
  Which brings me to my second reason for offering this amendment--the 
indifferent and, at times, hostile approach the Trump Administration 
has decided to take to Congressional oversight work.
  The administration has ignored the Seven Member Rule, an authority 
that was enacted into law in 1928 which delegates authority to any 
seven members of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform to 
require any Executive Branch agency to ``submit any information 
requested of it relating to any matter within the jurisdiction of the 
committee.''
  The Trump Administration released an opinion issued by the Office of 
Legal Counsel on May 1, 2017, arguing that agencies and departments 
could ignore requests for documents and other information from Members 
of Congress other than Republican Committee Chairmen.
  On June 7, 2017, Republican Senator Chuck Grassley wrote a scathing 
letter to President Trump urging him to reject the opinion issued by 
Office of Legal Counsel.
  The opinion stated that only requests from committees or their chairs 
are ``constitutionally authorized.''
  Senator Grassley called the opinion ``nonsense.''
  In his letter to the president he stated, ``For OLC to so 
fundamentally misunderstand and misstate such a simple fact exposes its 
shocking lack of professionalism and objectivity. Indeed, OLC appears 
to have utterly failed to live up to its own standards. You are being 
ill-served and ill-advised.''
  He also wrote, ``Oversight brings transparency, and transparency 
brings accountability. And, the opposite is true. Shutting down 
oversight requests doesn't drain the swamp, Mr. President. It floods 
the swamp.''
  And Congress is not blameless here.
  As the Vice Ranking Member of the House Oversight and Government 
Reform Committee, I have witnessed firsthand that Committee's volte-
face on issues of oversight.
  Whereas, during the Obama Administration one would have thought that 
like the British Empire the sun never set on the jurisdiction of the 
Oversight Committee, now the Majority advances a tortured and narrow 
interpretation of the Committee's role as the primary oversight body 
for the House of Representatives.
  If the Administration is going to ignore the Minority in Congress, 
and the Majority is suddenly allergic to Congressional oversight, the 
demands on GAO are only going to grow.
  And with that greater responsibility should come greater resources.
  First and foremost, the House should join Senator Grassley and demand 
that this administration not impede Congressional oversight activities.
  In the absence of the administration acceding to this demand, we must 
send a clear message about the importance of Executive Branch 
accountability by better funding GAO.
  This amendment will not solve the GAO funding difficulties created by 
this bill, but it would send a message to our colleagues in the Senate 
about the premium we place on the principle of robust oversight of the 
Executive Branch.
  Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. YODER. Mr. Chairman, I claim the time in opposition to the 
amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Kansas is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. YODER. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman from Virginia for his 
amendment to add $1 million to the already $545 million that we spend 
on the Government Accountability Office.
  The GAO plays an important role in being a government watchdog. They 
are the sort of watchdog of what happens in this city. And we are all 
certainly concerned, whether it is a Democrat or Republican President, 
that we want a GAO that can do its work and to root out fraud, waste, 
and abuse, provide economic data for Congress, help us to do our job in 
holding our government accountable, and help the American people hold 
our government accountable.
  That is why we work on this bill, to keep funding steady for the GAO 
and to help centralize IG reports to make them ultimately public and 
online to increase transparency. But we have tight constraints on our 
budget.
  Even so, while we work to fund additional security needs, critical 
infrastructure projects that need to be funded, and much-needed 
cybersecurity improvements, reducing the amount of money that goes to 
MRAs from our colleagues on both sides of the aisle would weaken our 
ability to represent our constituents, weaken our ability to 
effectively communicate with our constituents. I don't think that is 
the gentleman's intent here, but that would be the ultimate result.
  We actually have a slight increase in what the GAO can spend in our 
budget, getting up to $545 million. So there is a slight increase here, 
and that is at a time in which many budgets are being decreased across 
Congress. Many of our constituents are tightening their belts and 
learning how to do more with less in the challenges they face putting 
food on the table for their families and really working in a family 
budget. We have to do the same thing here in Congress, Mr. Chairman.
  The GAO actually gets slightly more money this year, and they have 
the ability to continue to carry out their function at $545 million. 
And I don't believe going to $546 million is going to achieve the 
significant changes that maybe Mr. Connolly would like to see.
  Ultimately, we are not able to accommodate this request, Mr. 
Chairman. Our Member budgets are already 12 percent below what they 
were when the Republicans took over the House in 2010.

                              {time}  1715

  We are 12 percent below, even with this expenditure, and many Members 
are concerned that they don't have the resources to provide what they 
need to for their constituents. So cutting these budgets by $1 million 
more would only exacerbate those problems.
  Mr. Chairman, we would have to oppose this amendment. We want the GAO 
to remain strong, and that is why we slightly increased their funding, 
but we can't really rob the MRA budgets to add to that with the many 
challenges we have and many priorities in this Congress.
  Mr. Chairman, I would oppose the amendment, and I yield back the 
balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Connolly).
  The amendment was rejected.


                  Amendment No. 2 Offered by Mrs. Love

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 2 
printed in House Report 115-259.
  Mrs. LOVE. I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 164, line 23, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $11,025,000) (increased by $11,025,000)''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 473, the gentlewoman 
from Utah (Mrs. Love) and a Member opposed each will control 5 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Utah.
  Mrs. LOVE. Mr. Chairman, I appreciate the opportunity to speak about 
my proposed amendment to the Legislative Branch Appropriations bill. My 
amendment will have zero budgetary impact, and the intent is to merely 
advocate for the expansion of permissible uses of the MRA funds that 
have already been designated for Member security.
  Currently, the Appropriations Committee has provided MRA resources in 
the amount of $25,000 per Member for providing Member security away 
from the Capitol complex; however, this money may not be currently 
spent on security at a Member's private residence.
  In the current environment, however, many Members, myself included, 
have faced threats that extend to our homes and our families. For me, 
that included a person putting my address on Facebook and Twitter with 
a statement that stated: ``We've signed your death certificate. You 
won't see us coming.''
  In fact, in recognition of this disturbing trend, a recent FEC 
advisory opinion held that the campaign funds may be used, ``. . . to 
install or upgrade residential security systems that do not constitute 
structural improvements to a Members' homes.''
  My amendment proposes that MRA funds for Member security may be used

[[Page H6410]]

in this same way. We do not face these threats because we are 
candidates for office but because we are sitting Members of Congress.
  Mr. Chair, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from Louisiana (Mr. 
Richmond), my colleague from Louisiana's Second Congressional District.
  Mr. RICHMOND. Mr. Chair, I rise to support the gentlewoman from 
Utah's amendment. I think that it is very appropriate, and, 
unfortunately, we find ourselves in a time where this is needed. But we 
have the awesome responsibility, and we have to remind ourselves 
sometimes that we are the only 435 people in the country that will vote 
on this country going to war and making decisions that impact this 
country. Because of that, I think that we need to make sure that we 
safeguard ourselves in this rising time of new threats and dangers.
  Look, we all signed up for public service and to serve our country 
and to make it a more perfect Union; however, a lot of our families and 
our neighbors and our constituents that show up at our functions didn't 
necessarily sign up for that. So for those reasons, I would just ask 
that my colleagues support it. I think it is a very prudent piece of 
legislation, amendment, at a very important time.
  Mrs. LOVE. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
Oklahoma (Mr. Bridenstine), my colleague from Oklahoma's First 
Congressional District.
  Mr. BRIDENSTINE. Mr. Chairman, I rise to thank the gentlewoman from 
Utah for offering this very important amendment at this time in 
American history. A lot of us have received threats, and I think this 
is a good amendment. I would like to thank the gentleman from Louisiana 
for stepping up to support it as well.
  I would like to reiterate the point that this amendment could save 
lives, and it doesn't add a single penny to the budget, to the debt, to 
the deficit. This doesn't add a single penny, and yet it could be 
responsible for saving the lives of our colleagues.
  So I would like to thank the gentlewoman from Utah for offering it 
and the gentleman from Louisiana for supporting it.
  I would urge all of my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on this amendment.
  Mrs. LOVE. Mr. Chair, I would like to go ahead and reiterate my 
thanks to the Appropriations Committee and to my colleagues for all of 
the support on this amendment.
  Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. YODER. Mr. Chairman, I claim the time in opposition to the 
amendment, even though I am not opposed to it.
  The Acting CHAIR. Without objection, the gentleman from Kansas is 
recognized for 5 minutes.
  There was no objection.
  Mr. YODER. Mr. Chairman, I would like to thank Mrs. Love for her 
eloquence and leadership on this issue. She has provided a very serious 
proposal at a time in which, in light of the recent tragedy at a 
baseball park here in the suburbs of Virginia and what we have seen 
across the country, there are threats made daily against Members of 
Congress, both Democratic and Republican. In fact, threats are up this 
year over what they were all of last year combined.
  We know many of these threats are simply just hot air or anger being 
expressed in an overly vitriolic way. We have all seen it on social 
media, on Twitter, on Facebook pages, things that are just really 
shocking and lack the discourse and the civility that we need to solve 
problems in this country. But it reaches a different level when Members 
of Congress are put in threatening situations where they or their 
families legitimately believe that someone may try to harm them. So we 
must ensure that we do everything we can to protect this institution, 
that we protect this government, that we protect democracy.
  The idea that anyone in this body could be targeted based on their 
political beliefs, like my friend and our colleague, our majority whip, 
Steve Scalise, was when he was shot at a baseball practice by somebody 
who was specifically targeting Republicans for their beliefs, that is 
sort of new in the world of the shootings that we have seen around the 
country, that someone would be specifically targeted for their beliefs.
  It happened to Republicans now; it could happen to Democrats the next 
time. So I think we stand unified as a Congress that we must improve 
the security in order to protect democracy.
  We signed up for this, of course, and as my colleague, Mr. Richmond, 
said, our families didn't. Home security relates to our children, our 
families, making sure there are cameras or whatever improvements need 
to be made so that people know that, if someone were to try to attack 
them at their home, they would be protected.

  In this bill, we have addressed security here in Washington, D.C. We 
have addressed security at our district offices at home. We have even 
allowed personal security. But what we haven't done is allowed some 
support for home security.
  We have seen, in recent weeks, that the FEC has said you can spend 
campaign dollars for this, and I think it is a reasonable request that 
Mrs. Love is making, that others are standing up for, to allow the MRA 
to be utilized for that.
  So I think what the gentlewoman is raising will help with peace of 
mind. It will help stem real attacks, is limited in its scope, and 
ultimately protects democracy. Members of Congress should not be 
intimidated or injured or worse because of what they believe in.
  I ask the body to support this legislation, and I yield the balance 
of my time to the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Ryan), the ranking member of 
the Legislative Branch Subcommittee.
  Mr. RYAN of Ohio. Mr. Chairman, I just want to make it unanimous 
here. I want to thank the gentlewoman from Utah for offering this 
amendment and Mr. Richmond for coming here to support it.
  Again, everything has been said. This is appropriate. We are in 
unchartered waters here. We were at the baseball practices. We saw what 
happened to our colleague.
  We go out to events; we can have security. We go to our office; we 
can have security. You come home, and you can't. So I think this is 
appropriate.
  I want to thank you for taking this issue up on behalf of the body. 
We have so many Members today that will take opportunities to diminish 
this body, and you stood up and showed some leadership in enhancing 
this body. I want to support this amendment, and I thank the chairman 
for allowing this to happen.
  Mr. YODER. Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentlewoman from Utah (Mrs. Love).
  The amendment was agreed to.


                 Amendment No. 3 Offered by Mr. Kildee

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 3 
printed in House Report 115-259.
  Mr. KILDEE. Mr. Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 163, line 25, after the dollar amount insert the 
     following: ``(increased by $250,000)''.
       Page 167, line 3, after the dollar amount insert the 
     following: ``(increased by $250,000)''.
       Page 167, line 14, after the dollar amount insert the 
     following: ``(increased by $250,000)''.
       Page 176, line 18, after the dollar amount insert the 
     following: ``(reduced by $250,000)''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 473, the gentleman 
from Michigan (Mr. Kildee) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Michigan.
  Mr. KILDEE. Mr. Chairman, this amendment is actually quite simple. It 
would expand the House Wounded Warrior Fellowship Program to ensure 
that even more wounded veterans have the opportunity to work here in 
Congress and contribute their talents to our work here.
  We need more veterans in public service. This amendment would provide 
additional opportunities for veterans to continue to serve their 
country here in the House of Representatives as legislative fellows.
  I think we know that these veterans bring a particular perspective 
and a particular set of experiences unlike anything else we hear, and 
this perspective should inform the conversations, the discussions, and 
the deliberations we have on all subjects, but particularly on subjects 
related to their

[[Page H6411]]

experience and their particular perspective. We need these voices 
especially now more than ever.
  We do talk a lot about ways to help veterans transition from their 
service to the world of work following their time in the military. This 
would increase the number of veterans that are given the opportunity 
to, right here, work alongside us and to provide us with their 
perspective.
  This amendment is budget neutral and provides additional 
opportunities for veterans to help us in our work. I think it is the 
right thing. I urge my colleagues to support it.
  I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Ryan), the ranking 
member of the subcommittee.
  Mr. RYAN of Ohio. Mr. Chair, I thank the gentleman.
  I think the Wounded Warrior Project we have going on here in the 
House of Representatives is a great project. It is a great opportunity, 
as you articulated, to get people into the legislative process, both in 
our district offices and here in Washington, D.C., and I want to voice 
my support for that.
  Mr. YODER. Mr. Chair, I ask unanimous consent to claim the time in 
opposition, even though I do not oppose the amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. Is there objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Kansas?
  There was no objection.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is recognized for 5 minutes.
  Mr. YODER. Mr. Chair, I want to thank Mr. Kildee for his leadership 
in bringing this to this body's attention.
  I think the work of our men and women in service defending our Nation 
is the highest priority for this Congress, and our support for them in 
services, in healthcare, in helping them find work, in education, in 
training, all the things they need when they come home, I think we are 
unified in our support that they should be recognized as the heroes 
they are when they come back and leave service.
  Some of these men and women, in putting themselves in the field of 
battle have become wounded, and sometimes very severely. They have 
stood in the field of battle. They have stood up to our enemies. They 
have protected freedom around the globe and here at home, keeping us 
and our allies, our children, our families safe, keeping freedom and 
democracy safe; yet, when they come home, all too often, they don't 
have everything they need. All too often, they don't feel that the 
promises this government has made have been kept. So each and every day 
I think we are working on legislation to improve that.
  We have passed bills in recent weeks here to continue and improve 
veterans' programs, but the House Wounded Warrior Program is a great 
example of how this Congress is leading by example by creating 2-year 
fellowships for disabled veterans.
  The unemployment rate is higher for these men and women than it is 
for nonveterans, and disabled veterans in particular, and so this 
fellowship program provides a valuable job, a valuable experience, an 
opportunity for these men and women to help serve their country, which 
is in their DNA. It is who they are.
  When they are done serving on the battlefield, they can come serve in 
our congressional offices, and it provides a great service for us. They 
provide the opportunity for us to have an expert on not only veterans' 
issues and military issues, but many issues. They can cover a whole 
range of things, providing better services for us and our constituents.
  In our legislation, the underlying bill, we increased the total 
number of fellowships to 85 from 54 because there is a waiting list. 
This is a 57 percent increase over the previous number. And 79 Member 
offices are on the waiting list right now to participate in this 
program, so the demand is there.
  We certainly know that there are many veterans who would love to 
serve in this capacity, and so we are excited to support this amendment 
putting more resources into this program, and we are going to work with 
the gentleman from Michigan to make sure that we can open up slots in a 
timely manner to help make sure we get these men and women into the 
offices so they can serve.
  Mr. Chairman, we support this amendment, and I yield back the balance 
of my time.

                              {time}  1730

  Mr. KILDEE. Mr. Chairman, I would just like to express my 
appreciation to Chairman Yoder for his support and for Ranking Member 
Ryan for their bipartisan support of this effort. It is the right thing 
to do. It will make a difference in the work that we do and especially 
will make a difference for those returning wounded warriors to give 
them a chance to start a career perhaps.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to support this amendment, and I 
yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Michigan (Mr. Kildee).
  The amendment was agreed to.


                  Amendment No. 4 offered by Mr. Perry

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 4 
printed in House Report 115-259.
  Mr. PERRY. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 176, line 2, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $25,436,000)''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 473, the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. Perry) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Pennsylvania.
  Mr. PERRY. Mr. Chairman, our Nation is $20 trillion in debt, and 
there might be $100 trillion or $200 trillion in unfunded liabilities. 
I am not sure we really know what the answer is there. But we have got 
to find a way to reduce our spending and make sure that the things we 
are paying for are worthy and that we are getting something--we are 
actually getting what we are paying for.
  I am offering an amendment to H.R. 3219 to reduce the appropriations 
to the Congressional Budget Office by 50.4 percent.
  We all know and agree the Congressional Budget Office is tasked with 
determining the budget and economic impacts of proposed legislation 
which are critical to our everyday decisions. Oftentimes, they are 
late, and, unfortunately, too often they are woefully incorrect.
  I don't mean to impugn the fine people who work at the CBO, but 
something is amiss. If we keep on accepting it, how are we ever going 
to get our policy right?
  The CBO's fiscal analysis is consistently incorrect, and, as a 
result, has detrimental implications on a variety of policies.
  This amendment reduces the CBO's fiscal year '18 appropriations by 
50.4 percent which just happens to be the exact same percentage that 
the CBO was off when it predicted the enrollment numbers for the 
Affordable Care Act exchanges in 2016.
  In 2010, the CBO projected that 21 million people would enroll in the 
exchange plans by 2016. The actual enrollment was about 10.4 million 
people. That is an error of 50.4 percent, Mr. Chairman.
  Now, maybe the CBO's projections would have improved as the ACA 
continued to take shape after 2010, and that seems reasonable. That is 
not correct. That is wrong. It didn't improve. Four years later, the 
CBO predicted that, from 2016, between 23 and 25 million people would 
receive coverage through the exchanges. In 2014, the updated CBO 
analysis projected that 24 million people would receive coverage 
through the exchange in 2016. However, the actual 2016 enrollment in 
the ACA exchanges was 10.4 million people.
  So it is less than half. They always predict about twice as much, or 
costs twice as much, and the numbers always seem to be half as much. 
That is a big deal.
  We passed the American Health Care Act in here, and I went to my 
townhall, and CBO is saying: well, 23 to 24 million people are going to 
lose their insurance because of the American Health Care Act.
  Well, yes, if you use the CBO's numbers which based the analysis on 
what they projected.
  They don't even look at reality. We have got the reality right now. 
The reality is 10.4 million people, not 23 and 25 million--10.4. But 
that is how they view this thing, and that is what we vote on here. 
That is a problem.

[[Page H6412]]

  I also want to highlight the failure of the CBO to forecast the cost 
of the Medicaid expansion. In 2013, the CBO projected that 34 million 
people would be on Medicaid or CHIP in 2016; however, in 2016, the CBO 
doubled, once again, they doubled their earlier estimates to 68 million 
people.
  I mean, who gets to be off by that much and still receive--it is not 
like there is no accountability; there isn't any accountability, Mr. 
Chairman.
  As a result, in March of 2016, the CBO increased its projection of 
Federal spending for Medicaid by $146 billion. These are figures that 
we make decisions on around here.
  Mr. Chairman, the CBO simply must be held accountable for its 
consistent failure to accurately or even reasonably predict budget and 
economic impacts of legislation. CBO is a critical contribution to our 
discussion and decisionmaking. We simply need to be able to depend on 
it as such.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. RYAN of Ohio. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to the 
amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is recognized for 5 minutes.
  Mr. RYAN of Ohio. Mr. Chairman, I have been here long enough to 
recognize that, at times, the majority party will come to some level of 
disagreement with the Congressional Budget Office. We were here during 
the healthcare debate, we were here during tax cuts and all kinds of 
different things that happened in the last 15 years that I have been 
here.
  They are not perfect, and they sometimes annoy us. As I can tell from 
my good friend on the other side, he is in the annoyance period with 
the Congressional Budget Office. But this is an essential component to 
what we do here.
  The Congressional Budget Office sincerely attempts to give us the 
best, most accurate information that they could possibly provide us, 
and those estimates change over time as circumstances change over time. 
When you are talking about one-sixth of the entire United States 
economy, it is going to be difficult to give you entirely accurate 
information.
  But not having this essential service here, I think, would be 
detrimental to this Congress, detrimental to our ability to even gauge 
and forecast into the future, and so I oppose this amendment strongly 
and vigorously.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from Kentucky (Mr. 
Yarmuth) who I know also has a strong opinion on this matter.
  Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in strong opposition to this 
amendment and urge my colleagues to reject it.
  Some Republicans in Congress and the Trump administration are engaged 
in a steadily escalating campaign to tear down the Congressional Budget 
Office and anyone else who does not tell them what they want to hear. 
This amendment is a direct assault eliminating half of CBO's budget.
  The CBO is our impartial referee. Its vigorous work has been 
indispensable for Congress as we consider legislation that impacts the 
lives of the American people. This amendment is not good for democracy, 
and it is not consistent with the principles of good government.

  Republicans claim to care about fiscal responsibility, but this 
amendment would destroy the office we rely on to help us meet that 
standard.
  My Republican colleagues are willing to compromise the integrity of 
this House solely because they cannot defend the bill repealing the 
Affordable Care Act. They cannot effectively explain to their 
constituents why they voted to leave more than 20 million Americans 
uninsured and dramatically increase the cost of insurance for millions 
more.
  They are unable to justify cutting $1 trillion from Medicaid and 
jeopardizing care for seniors in nursing homes, children, and families 
struggling to make ends meet. What they are doing in all of this is to 
provide cuts for the wealthiest Americans.
  This amendment is a clear attempt to divert attention from that 
reality and to hide the truth from the American people. It will set a 
dangerous precedent.
  As students, we would all like to grade our own papers, but we can't 
do that in Congress. We have to have somebody impartial who will grade 
them for us and tell us what this means to our budget and to the 
American people.
  Congress created CBO to give us our own sense of budgetary 
information and expertise so we would not have to rely on 
administration estimates. CBO improves our ability to protect the power 
of the purse. For more than 40 years, the CBO has steadfastly fulfilled 
its mission providing impartial analysis and expertise to inform our 
decisionmaking.
  The CBO Director and all personnel are appointed to their positions 
without regard to their political affiliation, solely based on their 
ability and qualifications. They show no allegiance or deference to any 
political ideology or party when preparing their analyses.
  It is all too easy these days to take refuge in information that 
tells us only what we want to hear. But that does not lead to sound 
policy. CBO does not exist to give us the information that we want to 
hear. Its job is to give us the information that we need to make 
informed, responsible decisions. It is one of few institutions in 
Washington that serves that role.
  It is beneath the Congress to attack the CBO which is only doing its 
job. It should be embarrassing to my Republican colleagues that they 
are launching these attacks simply because they do not have the courage 
to defend the damaging effects of their plan to repeal the Affordable 
Care Act. This needs to stop.
  Mr. RYAN of Ohio. Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. PERRY. Mr. Chairman, may I inquire of the time remaining.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Pennsylvania has 1 minute 
remaining.
  Mr. PERRY. Mr. Chairman, I don't disagree with my colleagues on the 
other side. I said that. We need the CBO. We created the CBO. Congress 
needs to have reliable information.
  The problem is, it is not reliable. It is not reliable on the 
testimony that was just given against this amendment. That is the 
problem.
  The CBO--right now where there are 10.4 enrollees--is telling us, in 
2 years, there are going to be 25 million enrollees. Meanwhile, there 
are less exchanges open, and there are fewer insurers available. It is 
not going up; it is going down.
  The CBO, when we say that they would reflect the current time, they 
absolutely don't. That is the problem. They don't even reflect reality 
when reality is right in front of them. The CBO needs to wake up. Who 
among us works for half the time and gets it doubly wrong and gets the 
same paycheck? The CBO.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to vote for this amendment, and I 
yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Perry).
  The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the ayes 
appeared to have it.
  Mr. RYAN of Ohio. Mr. Chairman, I demand a recorded vote.
  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further 
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Pennsylvania 
will be postponed.


               Amendment Number 5 offered by Mr. Griffith

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 5 
printed in House Report 115-259.
  Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       At the end of division B (before the short title), insert 
     the following:
       Sec. ___.  The Budget Analysis Division of the 
     Congressional Budget Office, comprising 89 employees with 
     annual salaries aggregating $15,000,000, is hereby abolished. 
     The duties imposed by law and regulation upon the employees 
     of that Division are hereby transferred to the Office of the 
     Director of the Congressional Budget Office.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 473, the gentleman 
from Virginia (Mr. Griffith) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Virginia.
  Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

[[Page H6413]]

  Mr. Chairman, I would like to read the amendment because I think 
there must be some confusion on this, and it will become important 
later in the debate:
  ``The Budget Analysis Division of the Congressional Budget Office, 
comprising 89 employees with annual salaries aggregating $15 million is 
hereby abolished. The duties''--underlined duties, because it is only 
duties--``imposed by law and regulation upon the employees of that 
division are hereby transferred to the Office of the Director of the 
Congressional Budget Office.''
  That is the simple amendment, Mr. Chairman.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from North Carolina 
(Mr. Meadows).
  Mr. MEADOWS. Mr. Chairman, I thank my esteemed colleagues for raising 
the issue, but it is more an issue of accuracy than anything else.
  As we look at this, Mr. Chairman, it is real easy to look at CBO and 
realize that they are the one group that makes a weatherman's 10-day 
forecast look accurate. They consistently miss it all the time.
  When you look at the 2002 farm bill, they missed it by $137 billion. 
The 2008 farm bill, they missed by $309 billion. Eventually, it adds up 
to real money.
  But even with that, let's look at the sale of 64 million barrels of 
oil from the Strategic Oil Reserve. They actually said that there is no 
income from that and that it costs the government to get rid of 64 
million barrels of oil. What kind of analysis does that?
  So if my friend opposite wants to debate this over the accuracy, I 
welcome it.
  Mr. Chair, it is time that we deal with this.
  Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself 2 minutes.
  Mr. Chairman, we have heard some of the problems with CBO from Mr. 
Meadows. We heard from Mr. Perry immediately before on his amendment.
  The CBO is meant to help Congress evaluate legislation. But I do not 
believe the agency, as currently constituted, has or can do so 
effectively.

                              {time}  1745

  Too often, predictions made by CBO turn out to be far off the mark.
  We heard about the 2002 farm bill and the 2008 farm bill from Mr. 
Meadows. That is true, but people back home may not realize that, in 
fact, we don't do a farm bill every year. We do one roughly every 5 
years, sometimes a little later than that, so there have not been so 
many to score.
  One of our favorites on the Energy and Commerce Committee, on which I 
am pleased to serve, is the fact that, in 2015, we decided we would 
push forward and sell, as a nation, some broadband spectrum. CBO said 
zero dollars would be yielded from that sale.
  Now, I use this all the time when I am talking to high school 
students, because you don't have to be a CBO person living in the ivory 
tower that they must live in to understand that broadband spectrum has 
value in today's society, and zero is not the right score. In the end, 
it brought in $44 billion. When you take away the costs, it brought in 
a net $40 billion. CBO was wrong.
  CBO has overestimated on a number of things. Mr. Perry talked about 
ObamaCare. But time after time after time, they have gotten things 
wrong. They said it cost more or didn't save as much.
  In fact, I just saw, today, a report put out by Xcenda that the per-
patient oncology drug costs were 0.06 to 2.3 times lower than what CBO 
said they were going to be from roughly 2003 to 2013, according to that 
study.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. RYAN of Ohio. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to the 
amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is recognized for 5 minutes.
  Mr. RYAN of Ohio. Mr. Chairman, this amendment is breathtaking in its 
completely overt vindictiveness. Some Members don't like the calls the 
refs have made in games. You can have your opposition and your opinion. 
Here, we are trying to get the referee fired. We cannot function as a 
group here if we are going to continue to try to demean and criticize 
this very group that is trying to help us do our job.
  As I said a few minutes ago, the Democrats have had a long list of 
frustrations with the CBO, but did we have the President, the leader of 
our party, and a significant number of Members of the United States 
Congress start bad-mouthing the CBO? We did not.
  We had our complaints, in all fairness, but we think that this group 
of professionals is essential to how this body functions.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from Tennessee 
(Mrs. Black), the distinguished chairman of the Budget Committee, if 
you are not going to just believe Democrats on this issue.
  Mrs. BLACK. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman for yielding.
  Mr. Chairman, I rise to voice my concerns about this amendment.
  I think everyone in this House has a lot of issues, as has already 
been talked about, with the current modeling that is used by the 
Congressional Budget Office, and I am certainly one of these people, 
but this amendment is not the best way to accomplish our goal of 
obtaining better information and analysis from CBO.
  The CBO is an important organization that provides vital information 
that Congress does need to make the best decisions. However, the 
modeling and scoring methods they currently are using need to be 
scrutinized, especially their behavioral predictions.
  For example, in 2010, the CBO projected that 21 million Americans 
would be covered by ObamaCare in 2016, when, in reality, less than 13 
million Americans have actually obtained coverage. In fact, during 
their scoring of the House Republican healthcare plan, CBO described 
their own estimates, which rely on behavioral predictions, as extremely 
uncertain.
  That is why the House Budget Committee plans to hold a series of 
hearings this fall on CBO to gain a better understanding of their 
methods and how we can work to improve their ability to give Congress 
better information, which we obviously need. As chairman of the Budget 
Committee, I take this responsibility very seriously, and we will 
approach these hearings in the pursuit of truth and accuracy so we can 
make laws that better serve the American people.
  We all realize that CBO has room for improvement, but this amendment 
being offered tonight is not the best way to achieve that. Instead, we 
need to have a deliberative discussion in the Budget Committee and 
amongst everyone in the House, and I look forward to doing exactly that 
in the coming weeks and months.
  Mr. RYAN of Ohio. Mr. Chairman, may I inquire how much time is 
remaining.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman has 2 minutes remaining.
  Mr. RYAN of Ohio. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from Massachusetts (Mr. Neal), the distinguished ranking member on the 
House Ways and Means Committee.
  Mr. NEAL. Mr. Chairman, the previous speaker said: How could a group 
be so far off in their analysis? Well, they were that far off with the 
Bush tax cuts in 2001 and 2003. Alan Greenspan was certainly off. In 
his commentary about economic growth, we had the slowest growth since 
Herbert Hoover was President, based upon $2.3 trillion worth of tax 
cuts.
  So this is analysis. It is an economic forecast. It is not an 
algorithm. When you pick up the computer, you push a button, and all of 
a sudden you get a score.
  I am in opposition to this amendment because they play a vital role 
every single day, even when they are not entirely accurate, in keeping 
a scorecard. Members and staff on both sides, particularly at the Ways 
and Means Committee, rely much upon their hardworking and nonpartisan 
analysis for what they do every day.
  I have never, in 29 years in this House, said to a member of CBO: Are 
you a Republican or are you a Democrat?
  When we demean professional achievement from economists who try and 
strive every single day to come up with an accurate forecast, we do 
this institution no good. We should have a high regard for what these 
people do every single day--and let me say this, by the way, more 
accurate than the Office of Management and Budget, in my recollection, 
who work for Presidents and who, generally, didn't come up

[[Page H6414]]

with forecasts that Presidents might or might not like.

  The CBO is an independent agency and we need to keep it here. 
Congress could not do its work without the CBO. As Tim Ryan said a few 
moments ago, this is the equivalent of let's beat up the referee after 
we don't like the outcome of the soccer game. Let's jump the referee 
and tell him: You better go back in and change the score so that we 
might meet, perhaps, popular polling forecasts, which I also might tell 
you, based on what happened in November, weren't so good, either, for 
all of us.
  Regardless of what political party we are Members of, we should have 
regard for this House of Representatives and the independent role that 
CBO offers. Chairman Kevin Brady stands with me on this. Leave the CBO 
alone.
  The Acting CHAIR. The time of the gentleman from Ohio has expired.
  Mr. RYAN of Ohio. Mr. Chair, as the designee of Ranking Member Lowey, 
I move to strike the last word.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is recognized for 5 minutes.
  Mr. RYAN of Ohio. Mr. Chairman, I yield to the gentleman from 
California (Mr. Costa).
  Mr. COSTA. Mr. Chair, I thank the gentleman for yielding.
  As one of the three co-chairs of the Blue Dog Coalition, a group of 
Democrats committed to bringing our Nation's deficit and debt under 
control, I rise in opposition to this amendment.
  This amendment would, in fact, eliminate the division in the CBO 
area. Frankly, it serves, as we all know, a valuable role as a 
nonpartisan adviser to Congress on the costs and tradeoffs on 
legislation and the budget of the United States.
  Although you don't see these folks on TV every day, the CBO staff 
consists of professionals who put facts and transparency first. 
Forecasting the economic impacts of legislation is complicated, and no 
estimate will ever be perfect, let's face that. The CBO, though, is 
transparent about that.
  That said, estimates provided by the CBO are objective and are based 
on facts and transparent calculations. The staff who make these 
estimates up aren't swayed by the political rhetoric on either side of 
the spectrum on the House floor, and that is what lawmakers need in 
order to govern responsibly.
  Without the CBO, lawmakers in Washington would be flying blind, 
developing major legislation without knowing what the real consequences 
are. Just like you wouldn't drive a car while blindfolded, you 
shouldn't be voting on legislation without knowing the real costs, 
intended or unintended. After all, these are taxpayer dollars.
  This amendment is dangerous for our Nation, and there is no other way 
to describe it. As a society, one must accept facts as they are, 
whether the facts are in our favor or not. Facts are facts, I guess, 
unless you believe in alternative facts.
  In fact, CBO acts as an umpire for us here in Congress, calling balls 
and strikes as best it can. You may not like the call, you may not like 
the strike zone, you may think it is simply wrong, but you don't attack 
the umpire. That is what this is: attacking the umpire because you 
don't like the call. If you attack the umpire, why don't you improve 
your game?
  At the end of the day, what we are talking about here is taxpayer 
dollars. We need to keep the Congressional Budget Office intact, and I 
oppose this legislation, as do all of the Blue Dogs.
  Mr. RYAN of Ohio. Mr. Chairman, I yield to the gentleman from 
Virginia (Mr. Beyer).
  Mr. BEYER. Mr. Chairman, I, too, rise in strong opposition to this 
mean-spirited amendment.
  This attack on the integrity and professionalism of the Congressional 
Budget Office is shameful and is part of a strategic assault on the 
objectivity and expertise in our civil service.
  With this amendment, the Republicans are seeking to punish the 
nonpartisan CBO because they don't agree with their finding regarding 
the Republican plan to replace ObamaCare.
  I understand that, for Republicans and the Trump administration, it 
is an inconvenient truth that 23 million Americans would lose coverage 
under their plan, but just because you are losing the game doesn't mean 
you can fire the refs. Partisan talking points cannot replace unbiased 
analysis.
  Let's not forget the CBO's Director was appointed by a Republican 
Speaker and praised effusively by then-Budget chairman and current 
Secretary of Health and Human Services, Tom Price.
  Mr. Chairman, I represent more Federal employees than any other 
Member of the House. Most of these 89 positions at the CBO that this 
amendment seeks to eliminate are my constituents. It is simply 
unacceptable that we somehow suggest that they and others in the civil 
service are not honest.
  The choice to pursue this political attack on the CBO through the so-
called Holman rule should concern every Member of Congress. Back in 
January, when Republicans passed their rules package enabling Members 
to target individual Federal employees and their pay, I warned that the 
Holman rule would be abused and used as a way to politically target 
civil servants. That is exactly what we are seeing today.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to oppose the amendment.
  Mr. RYAN of Ohio. Mr. Chairman, let me just say quickly again and 
reiterate that we are living in a world now where facts are trying to 
be diminished, science is trying to be diminished, and we rely on these 
professionals to give us as accurate information as we can possibly 
obtain at the time from the professionals that are in this office. We 
rely on this office very much to make the decisions that we make here 
that have such great importance. While they are not always perfect, I 
think they always put forth a good product for us.

  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself the balance of my time.
  Mr. Chairman, we have heard from our colleagues on the other side of 
the aisle that we ought to trust the CBO, that the referee should be 
taken at their word and that they are doing the best they can. But 
let's look at this amendment.
  The CBO scored it, and they said:

       CBO estimates that your amendment would have no net effect 
     on budget authority or outlays in fiscal year 2018.

  No net effect. Who here actually believes that eliminating 89 
positions, as the gentleman from Virginia, my friend, just said it is 
going to affect his people, who believes that 89 people being 
eliminated and $15 million in aggregate salaries has no net effect on 
budget authority or outlays? I don't think any of us believe that.
  So here is the conundrum that my friends have on the other side of 
this issue: a ``yes'' vote means that you agree with me that something 
needs to be reformed at CBO; a ``no'' vote means that you agree with 
CBO's assessment that this amendment abolishing 89 employees will have 
no effect. Therefore, I would submit to you that the CBO has, in 
effect, determined that their budget analysis division has no value. 
Therefore, if you actually support CBO, you must vote ``present.''
  Mr. Chairman, I ask my colleagues to join me with a ``yes,'' and 
let's start the reform at CBO so we can get accurate numbers. If you 
don't agree with this reform, I ask that you vote ``present,'' or else 
you, too, are agreeing with the CBO that the budget analysis division 
has no value.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. CONNOLLY. Mr. Chair, I have great respect for gentlemen who 
offered this amendment.
  They are my colleagues, and they are my friends.
  Mr. Meadows and I work very closely together on the Government 
Operations Subcommittee. He is my Chairman, and he knows I value his 
collaboration.
  Mr. Griffith is a fellow Virginian, and I have the pleasure of 
serving on committees with Mr. Jordan (OGR) and Mr. Perry (HFAC).
  And that is why it especially pains me to say this.
  But this amendment, which uses the disgraceful Holman Rule to 
eviscerate the Congressional Budget Office's Budget Analysis Division, 
is so transparent and so cynical it makes me want to weep.
  This amendment would punish the Congressional Budget Office for 
exposing the House Republican repeal of the Affordable Care Act as a 
cruel bill that would deprive 23 million Americans of healthcare.
  CBO is being retaliated against for the earnest work it conducted on 
the Trump Budget,

[[Page H6415]]

which demonstrated that the president's budget misrepresents deficit 
projections by $2.3 trillion.
  This amendment says facts don't matter anymore.
  And that is something to mourn.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Griffith).
  The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the noes 
appeared to have it.
  Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Chair, I demand a recorded vote.
  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further 
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Virginia 
will be postponed.

                              {time}  1800


                Amendment No. 6 Offered by Mr. Cicilline

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 6 
printed in House Report 115-259.
  Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 176, line 18, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $100,000) (increased by $100,000)''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 473, the gentleman 
from Rhode Island (Mr. Cicilline) and a Member opposed each will 
control 5 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Rhode Island.
  Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Chairman, my amendment to H.R. 3219 will help 
ensure that buildings such as the Capitol and the House and Senate 
office buildings have adequate baby changing tables.
  Last year, this Congress passed into law my legislation called the 
BABIES Act requiring that both male and female restrooms in many public 
buildings be equipped with baby changing facilities that are physically 
safe, sanitary, and appropriate.
  That legislation ensures that there are appropriate and sanitary 
facilities for parents and caretakers to change the diapers of infants 
and toddlers in publicly accessible Federal buildings controlled by the 
General Services Administration.
  In the same vein, I was pleased that the Legislative Branch 
Subcommittee included report language in its fiscal year 2017 bill 
recognizing the importance of providing designated baby changing 
stations for members of the public who visited the Capitol complex and 
encouraging the Architect of the Capitol to take steps to provide baby 
changing stations at easily accessible locations.
  I want to thank my colleagues on the Appropriations Committee and 
Chairman Yoder for their support of these efforts. My amendment today 
to H.R. 3219 would similarly encourage the construction of safe, 
appropriate, and sanitary baby changing stations in Federal public 
buildings controlled by the Architect of the Capitol such as the 
Capitol complex, the House, and Senate office buildings, the Botanic 
Gardens, and the Library of Congress.
  With more than 20 million visitors coming to Washington, D.C., each 
year, families are often surprised by the lack of adequate baby 
changing facilities in public buildings. Currently, there are only nine 
baby changing stations in the House office buildings, none of which are 
in the Rayburn Building, where my office is located. That means that 
when Rhode Island families who come to visit my office have to try to 
find a changing station, they go all the way to Cannon or Longworth, or 
they have to decide to change their baby on the bathroom floor, which 
is a terrible option. It is not sanitary either for the parents or for 
the children.
  Access to these changing stations in restrooms in Federal buildings 
will help in protecting the health and safety of children at a very de 
minimus cost, about $200 per changing station. This nominal amount will 
go a very long way to encouraging a family-friendly environment and 
ensuring the safety and comfort of our constituents who visit us.
  And I want to again thank Chairman Yoder and Ranking Member Ryan for 
their support of this amendment, and I look forward to working with 
them to help ensure that our constituents are able to have a safe and 
enjoyable visit to our beautiful Capitol buildings.
  Mr. Chair, I yield to the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Ryan), the ranking 
member.
  Mr. RYAN of Ohio. Mr. Chair, I thank the gentleman for yielding.
  Let me just say briefly that I support this amendment. Making the 
Capitol complex and other buildings in the legislative branch more 
family friendly is an important priority. People come here from all 
over the country to meet with us, to see the sights, and to witness 
democracy in action.
  If you have traveled far and wide with your family like I have, you 
know how much of a difference that it would make even for a brief part 
of your day, like the inevitability of having to change a diaper. This 
amendment will make it a little bit easier. So this is just a very 
thoughtful, practical pro-family amendment, and I encourage all of our 
colleagues to vote ``yes.''
  Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Chair, I yield to the gentleman from Kansas (Mr. 
Yoder).
  Mr. YODER. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman from Rhode Island.
  I, too, support the gentleman's efforts here, and, as a supporter of 
the BABIES Act, last year, H.R. 5147, I am happy to report, because of 
the language we included with the Architect of the Capitol last year, 
they presented a plan, which they are going to move forward with, which 
will install additional baby changing stations around campus, 54 of 
which will be going into House Office Buildings.
  And as a father of two little girls, I have used these changing 
tables myself in restrooms from time to time, as Mr. Ryan has. I know 
he has got a young son. And so we know how important these are and how 
families, when they need to make a change, they need to make a change. 
They need to have a space to do that.
  So we need to be family friendly here in the U.S. Capitol and in our 
House Office Buildings, and so I thank the gentleman for raising this 
important issue. It deserves attention. I will be happy to continue to 
work with the gentleman, as well as the Architect of the Capitol, to 
ensure that adequate number of changing stations are installed around 
the Capitol complex for families, for the 9 million visitors that come 
to this Capitol every year, that many of those have families with young 
children, that they are able to, as well as the Members of Congress 
like Mr. Ryan and ourselves and many others who have young children, 
use these changing stations as well.
  Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR (Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois). The question is on 
the amendment offered by the gentleman from Rhode Island (Mr. 
Cicilline).
  The amendment was agreed to.


                 Amendment No. 7 Offered by Mr. Takano

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 7 
printed in House Report 115-259.
  Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       At the end of division B (before the short title), insert 
     the following:
       Sec. ___.  There is appropriated, for salaries and expenses 
     of the Office of Technology Assessment as authorized by the 
     Technology Assessment Act of 1972 (2 U.S.C. 471 et seq.) 
     $2,500,000, to be derived from a reduction of $2,647,000 in 
     the amount provided in this Act for the item for ``Architect 
     of the Capitol, Capital Construction and Operations''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 473, the gentleman 
from California (Mr. Takano) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California.
  Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Chair, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Chair, I rise today in support of my amendment, which would 
restore funding to the Office of Technology Assessment, or otherwise 
known as OTA. I would like to thank my cosponsors, Representatives 
Esty, Foster, Langevin, Lieu, and Lujan.
  The foundation for good policy is accurate and objective analysis, 
and, for more than two decades, the OTA set that foundation by 
providing relevant, unbiased technical and scientific assessments for 
Members of Congress and staff.

[[Page H6416]]

  But in 1995, the OTA was defunded, stripping Congress of a valuable 
resource to understand both emerging technologies as well as the 
nuances of the legislative process. In its absence, the need for OTA 
has only grown. Many of the issues OTA studied 20 years ago are even 
more pressing today.
  Antibiotic resistant bacteria, electronic surveillance in the digital 
age, and testing in America's schools, these are the complex challenges 
our Nation will continue to face, and Congress should have access to 
the thorough and insightful analysis OTA can provide.
  Investing in the OTA now will actually save us money in the future. 
In the last year it operated, the OTA's budget was $23 million, but its 
studies on the synthetic fuels corporation saved taxpayers tens of 
billions of dollars. Our amendment restores a modest $2.5 million to 
the OTA account for salaries and expenses to begin rebuilding the 
office.
  The cost is offset by a reduction to the Architect of the Capitol's 
construction and operations account. This administrative account will 
not take resources from specific construction projects.
  Mr. Chair, a great surgeon does not operate without modern tools, a 
master chef does not cook without fresh ingredients, and Members of 
Congress should not make policy decisions without relevant and unbiased 
information.
  And with that in mind, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on this 
amendment, to restore funding to the Office of Technology Assessment.
  Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. YODER. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to the amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR (Mr. Perry). The gentleman from Kansas is recognized 
for 5 minutes.
  Mr. YODER. Mr. Chairman, I appreciate my good friend and colleague 
and co-chair of the Deaf Caucus, Mr. Takano from California, for 
bringing this amendment, and unfortunately, I cannot support it, Mr. 
Chairman, and we would ask that the body reject it.
  You know, Congress terminated funding for the Office of Technology 
Assessment in 1995, so some 22 years ago, but it is back from the dead 
to be here on the floor today to be reestablished.
  At one point, funding totaled over $20 million for the Office of 
Technology Assessment, but Congress did one of the things it has 
attempted to do in many areas, which is try to consolidate government, 
make government more efficient, make it do more with less, and so they 
transferred the functions from the Office of Technology Assessment over 
to the GAO.
  We have heard debate on this floor within the last hour about the 
value of the GAO and the great work they do and how the GAO is a 
trustworthy organization and how it is important that we continue to 
fund them, yet, in this instance, they want to take these 
responsibilities away from the GAO.
  In fact, in fiscal year 2008, a permanent technology assessment 
function within the GAO was established by a recommendation from the 
Senate Committee on Appropriations. They allocate at least $2.5 million 
per year to technology assessment, and they have established the 
capability to produce technology assessments in many areas.
  They have hired scientists, engineers, and other technical 
specialists to respond to congressional requests. They produce three to 
four technology assessment reports each year. The GAO uses its 
technical staff to support other reports for Congress that have 
technology implications, such as privacy and vulnerability of computer 
components in cars.
  The GAO receives three to four requests per year specifically for 
technology assessments, and many others have a technology as an aspect.
  They have been able to testify on these topics recently on the Zika 
virus and on transfer of technologies developed with Federal research 
funds to the marketplace. They provide thorough and balanced analysis 
of critical technological innovations that affect our society, the 
environment, and the economy.
  And so creating another Federal agency that is going to require 
additional resources and to have it offset from investment in capital 
projects, to me, is the wrong direction. I think, in current law, we 
have more than enough resources heading in this direction. Taxpayers 
are counting on us to find ways to spend less money, to keep programs 
efficient, and so the idea that we create a new agency that has been 
gone for 20 years today and fund it for millions of dollars, to me, is 
inconsistent with the values we all, I think, espouse about making 
government more efficient, more effective.
  Mr. Chairman, with that, I would oppose the amendment, and I yield 
back the balance of my time.
  Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Chairman, how much time do I have remaining?
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from California has 2\1/2\ minutes 
remaining.
  Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Illinois (Mr. Foster), a member of the Science Committee and also a 
physicist.
  Mr. FOSTER. Mr. Chair, I thank my friend from California (Mr. Takano) 
and my colleagues, Representatives Esty, Langevin, Lieu, and Lujan for 
cosponsoring this amendment.
  Our amendment would provide $2.5 million to revive the Office of 
Technology Assessment to provide Congress with unbiased, timely, and 
nonpartisan reports on a wide range of issues in science and 
technology.
  This office is no less necessary today than when it was first started 
in 1972, or when it was defunded in 1995. As technology continues to 
advance at an increasingly rapid pace and our partisan divide seems to 
grow deeper, Congress needs this now more than ever.
  The OTA did important work in a number of areas, but I would like to 
highlight just one of those areas in particular.
  One of the last recommendations the OTA made was that the U.S. should 
move rapidly to computerized health records and that standards should 
be put in place to ensure what we now call interoperability.
  Had we heeded this advice rather than defunding the OTA, we could 
have saved hundreds of billions of dollars of taxpayer money and saved 
hundreds of thousands of American lives by ensuring accurate, up-to-
date patient data that was accessible regardless of where the patient 
turned up for care.
  This also could have helped slow or prevent the opioid epidemic by 
ensuring that patients would not be able to doctor shop to acquire 
numerous opioid prescriptions.
  While we cannot slow down the rapid pace of technology, we can give 
our country back an important and proven tool.
  So I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this amendment to 
restore this vital source of credible, nonpartisan scientific expertise 
to the U.S. Congress.
  Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Chair, I reiterate my support for the Office of 
Technology Assessment. Congress does not suffer from a lack of 
information, but it does suffer from a lack of trusted information to 
help make wise policy decisions.
  Today, we do need the Office of Technology Assessment more than ever. 
I urge my colleagues to support this amendment.
  Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from California (Mr. Takano).
  The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the ayes 
appeared to have it.
  Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Chair, I demand a recorded vote.
  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further 
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from California 
will be postponed.


               Amendment No. 8 Offered by Ms. Shea-Porter

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 8 
printed in House Report 115-259.
  Ms. SHEA-PORTER. Mr. Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       At the end of division B (before the short title), insert 
     the following:
       Sec. ___.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used to mail any mass mailing (as defined in subparagraph 
     (E) of section 3210(a)(6) of title 39, United States Code) 
     which is larger than 4\1/4\ inches high x 6 inches long x 
     0.016 inches thick.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 473, the gentlewoman

[[Page H6417]]

from New Hampshire (Ms. Shea-Porter) and a Member opposed each will 
control 5 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from New Hampshire.
  Ms. SHEA-PORTER. Mr. Chair, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Chair, my amendment is simple and straightforward. It would 
change the way our official taxpayer-funded mass mailings to 
constituents look by limiting the mailer to the size of a standard 
postcard.
  As Members of Congress, it is our job to set the standard for 
responsible stewardship of taxpayer funds, and public resources should 
not be spent on excessive campaign-style mailers.

                              {time}  1815

  A significant part of our duties as elected representatives is to 
keep our constituents informed about what we are doing in our offices. 
I support mass mailings to our constituents, but we can keep them 
informed by sending a simple postcard, without all of the glitz and 
gloss.
  Also, when official mail looks like campaign mailers, people are more 
likely to toss it out, thereby defeating the very purpose of informing 
our constituents. Our official mail should not look like campaign ads 
or junk mail. Our constituents don't want large mailers. They just want 
information. This amendment delivers.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. YODER. Mr. Chairman, I claim the time in opposition.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Kansas is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. YODER. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to the gentlewoman from 
New Hampshire's amendment on postcard sizes, primarily because this 
issue has yet to go through any sort of process. We don't have 
information on the floor to know how this would affect Member offices. 
It has not gone through the Franking Commission or come before our 
committee, so I don't think it is ready for consideration and debate.
  Franked mailings of standard postcard size currently only account for 
roughly 10 percent of the total franked mailings that Members send. 
This amendment would prohibit Members from sending mass mailings on 
their own letterhead. They wouldn't be able to send printed 
newsletters, fliers, letters, or regular or large postcards, among 
others.
  I think it would really have a dramatic impact on the ability of 
Members of Congress to communicate with their constituents. They 
wouldn't be able to send them a letter or they wouldn't be able to send 
them a newsletter.
  I certainly am about saving money and about making government more 
efficient, but this idea, I think, is not ready for prime time. I 
appreciate my colleague from New Hampshire bringing it forward, but I 
can't support it at this point, and I would oppose it.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield as much time as he consume to the gentleman 
from Illinois (Mr. Rodney Davis).
  Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Chairman, the Franking Commission, 
of which I am the chairman, is a bipartisan commission made up of an 
equal number of members from both parties that approve all the franking 
and mailing materials that go out. We were not contacted by the 
gentlewoman from New Hampshire about this amendment, and that is one 
reason I am opposed.
  There are a number of reasons why I am opposed to the amendment, the 
chief of which this amendment is going to negatively impact two very 
large constituencies--people in rural America that I serve, and many of 
us serve, and also areas where there is not ready access to electronic 
communications. Many Americans who don't have access to electronic 
communications will be the most affected by the fact that Members of 
Congress cannot contact their constituents via mail.
  By limiting how Members can communicate with their constituents, 
Members may be more likely to make mistakes and violate the franking 
rules. We want to make sure that the franking rules work. Currently, 
postcards, communications that are 4\1/2\ by 6, the size mandated by 
this amendment, as Chairman Yoder said, make up only 10 percent of all 
postal mail communications.
  This amendment would severely limit what many Members, both 
Republicans and Democrats, are able to do. By reducing the size of any 
mailer to a postcard, Members of Congress of both parties wouldn't even 
be able to communicate via letterhead in a mass mailing, so this is an 
amendment that I oppose.
  Mr. YODER. Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Ms. SHEA-PORTER. Mr. Chairman, while I certainly appreciate my 
colleagues' opinions on this and I recognize that it is not a perfect 
solution, I don't think that this is a surprise.
  We certainly have heard from our constituents, pretty much every 
election cycle, when they start talking about all the mass mailings 
they are receiving, with many pictures and lots of ideas about what has 
been accomplished by the incumbent in office. It has been around for a 
while. Like I said, I do appreciate it, but they are still able to mail 
directly to a response from their colleagues or from any of their 
constituents.
  The reality is that most people are not looking at just a postcard in 
this world. They do look online. I understand what you are talking 
about. I have rural areas as well. They look online. Also, they can 
receive a number of other correspondence from us. It does not in any 
way impact the correspondence when they write to us.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. YODER. Mr. Chairman, I yield as much time as he may consume to 
the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. Rodney Davis).
  Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Chairman, again, I wish our 
colleague would have gone through the process. If she would come to the 
Franking Commission, we would be glad to take her ideas into 
consideration.
  But this amendment severely limits the ability of Members of Congress 
to reach out to their constituents. Members would not be able to send a 
mailer on official letterhead. Members who budgeted their funds wisely 
and printed postcards that they then send to their Members that might 
not fit this size would be a waste of taxpayer dollars because they 
would not be able to use those.
  Also, under this amendment, many end-of-the-year communications that 
my colleague has sent from her office herself would not be eligible 
under this amendment right now.
  So let's make sure that we have a discussion at the Franking 
Commission level. We would enjoy debating this issue with Members, 
Republicans and Democrats, who equally make up the Franking Commission. 
We would like to take your concerns into consideration, but give us a 
chance to do that. I urge my colleague to do that in the future.
  Mr. Chairman, again, I oppose this amendment.
  Mr. YODER. Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentlewoman from New Hampshire (Ms. Shea-Porter).
  The amendment was rejected.


                 Amendment No. 9 Offered by Mr. Russell

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 9 
printed in House Report 115-259.
  Mr. RUSSELL. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       At the end of division B (before the short title), insert 
     the following:
       Sec. ___.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to deliver a printed copy of the Federal Register to 
     the office of a Member of the House of Representatives 
     (including a Delegate or Resident Commissioner to the 
     Congress), unless a printed copy is requested by the Member 
     (or Delegate or Resident Commissioner).

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 473, the gentleman 
from Oklahoma (Mr. Russell) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Oklahoma.
  Mr. RUSSELL. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Chairman, this amendment, which restructures the way the Federal 
Register is distributed to Members' offices, will save approximately $1 
million annually.

[[Page H6418]]

  The Federal Register contains a large amount of information, 
including proposed rules and public notices, regulations, executive 
orders, and Presidential documents. This information is compiled by the 
great folks at the National Archives, and published daily by the 
Government Printing Office, or the GPO.
  Since 1994, the GPO began publishing the Federal Register online. To 
improve the user experience, the digital version has been enhanced over 
time and is now fully searchable and downloadable, and is the preferred 
method that staff and Members use the Register, making for quick access 
to any document.
  Sadly, despite these advances in technology, Members of Congress 
still receive printed copies of the Federal Register every day. This 
results in thousands of copies going directly into the trash, costing 
taxpayers $1 million annually. Put another way, Mr. Chairman, this 
means that approximately 96 Americans have to work all year long and 
pay their taxes so that we can put these Federal Registers in the 
trash.
  This amendment simply prevents the distribution of printed copies to 
Members' offices, unless the Member opts in to receiving a copy. 
Digital copies are already daily distributed.
  This amendment is in line with H.R. 195, a bill I introduced, which 
passed this House unanimously without any opposition, and was 
cosponsored by Mr. Connolly of Virginia.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to support this amendment so that 
we can now make it law.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. YODER. Mr. Chairman, I ask unanimous consent to claim the time in 
opposition, although I am not opposed to the amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR (Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois). Is there objection 
to the request of the gentleman from Kansas?
  There was no objection.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Kansas is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. YODER. Mr. Chairman, I thank my colleague from Oklahoma (Mr. 
Russell) for continuing the tradition that he and others, particularly 
in Oklahoma, for some reason, have focused on cutting out government 
waste, finding sometimes small things, sometimes big things, and all 
things in between that we can reduce, cut, or eliminate that saves 
taxpayers' money.
  Mr. Chair, $1 million is big money in States like Kansas and Oklahoma 
and across the country. It is real dollars to the people who get up and 
pay their taxes to this country. There are too many million-dollar 
expenditures that happen in this government that are overlooked and 
unnecessary because they are not maybe big enough for folks here to 
take time to pay attention to.
  What Mr. Russell is doing today is standing up for fiscal 
responsibility, for efficiency of government, and for helping the 
environment. This is wasted printed paper that is unnecessary. I think 
it is a good government measure that will help modernize and make our 
government more efficient and effective.
  It is consistent with what this House has already done when it passed 
H.R. 195 earlier, which bars the distribution of the Federal Register 
to congressional offices and Federal agencies. That is in the Senate 
being marked up, maybe even today.
  This is a smart amendment. It is the kind of thing that we need to 
keep doing more of to save money for taxpayers.
  Mr. Chairman, I thank Mr. Russell for his work, and I ask my 
colleagues to support the amendment.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. RUSSELL. Mr. Chairman, I appreciate my colleague from Kansas for 
his kind remarks. I also appreciate the colleagues from the other side 
of the aisle who have shown continued support for this amendment.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Oklahoma (Mr. Russell).
  The amendment was agreed to.
  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 10 
printed in House Report 115-259.


                Amendment No. 11 Offered by Mr. Bergman

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 11 
printed in House Report 115-259.
  Mr. BERGMAN. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 219, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(decreased by $30,000,000)''.
       Page 226, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $30,000,000)''.
       Page 226, line 8, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $30,000,000)''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 473, the gentleman 
from Michigan (Mr. Bergman) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Michigan.
  Mr. BERGMAN. Mr. Chairman, advances in technology have given us the 
opportunity to increase access and streamline processes for veterans 
not only in the First District and across Michigan, but across the 
country. That said, we must ensure that technology is an asset and not 
an added burden to veterans, as it has been within the VA.
  The Department of Veterans Affairs IT landscape has been the primary 
topic of hearings within the House Veterans' Affairs Committee, due to 
its ever-expanding modernization timeline for outdated systems and lack 
of interoperability within and outside the Department.
  The solution is undisputed. The VA must modernize its IT systems or 
continue to face uphill struggles in timely claims and appeals 
processing, community care, scheduling, and financial management.
  Earlier this week, the House Veterans' Affairs Committee received an 
update from Secretary Shulkin that shows a continued lack of planning 
and implementation of its data center optimization program, an issue 
which was initially pointed out by the GAO during a hearing back in 
February.
  With all this in mind, I was understandably troubled when I saw the 
underlying bill provided $52 million less for IT development and 
modernization than last year's appropriation.
  I understand that cuts need to be made, and that this bill aims to 
address other issues plaguing the VA, but it is imperative I make this 
point to the chairman and the ranking member.
  Our veterans deserve immediate access to care and timely adjudication 
of their disability claims from an efficient, effective Department of 
Veterans Affairs. This simply cannot happen until the VA addresses the 
woeful state of its IT systems.
  I ask that the chairman, the ranking member, and the rest of the 
House Veterans' Affairs Committee work with me to address this issue 
going forward.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time, and I withdraw my 
amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The amendment is withdrawn.

                              {time}  1830

  Mr. DENT. Mr. Chair, as the designee of the gentleman from New Jersey 
(Mr. Frelinghuysen), I move to strike the last word.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Pennsylvania is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. DENT. Mr. Chair, I yield to the gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr. 
Pocan).
  Mr. POCAN. Mr. Chair, I have a question for the chairman of the 
MILCON Committee about the language in his committee report regarding 
colorectal cancer screening in the VA.
  Mr. Chairman, in his report, Mr. Dent encourages the VA to increase 
colorectal cancer screening in the Department of Veterans Affairs. In 
the other body, they have language that directs the VA to offer each 
one of the seven approaches for screening that are currently approved 
by the United States Preventive Services Task Force and are more 
closely aligned with other Federal health programs.
  Can I assume that the intention is the same and the efforts are aimed 
at urging the VA to offer all of the approved methods of screening?
  Mr. DENT. Mr. Chair, the gentleman from Wisconsin is correct. It is 
our intention to urge the VA to offer all of the approved methods of 
screening.
  Mr. POCAN. Mr. Chair, I thank the gentleman for that clarification.

[[Page H6419]]

  

  Mr. DENT. I yield back the balance of my time.


      Amendments En Bloc No. 1 Offered by Mr. Dent of Pennsylvania

  Mr. DENT. Mr. Chairman, pursuant to section 3 of House Resolution 
473, as the designee of the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. 
Frelinghuysen), I offer amendments en bloc.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendments en bloc.
  Amendments en bloc No. 1 consisting of amendment Nos. 12, 14, 15, 16, 
17, 18, 22, 25, and 26 printed in House Report 115-259, offered by Mr. 
Dent of Pennsylvania:

            Amendment No. 12 Offered by Mr. Barr of Kentucky

       Page 219, line 16, after the dollar amount insert the 
     following: ``(increased by $5,000,000)''.
       Page 225, line 6, after the dollar amount insert the 
     following: ``(reduced by $5,000,000)''.


            Amendment No. 14 Offered by Mr. Kihuen of Nevada

       Page 220, line 22, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $1,031,808,000) (increased by 
     $1,031,808,000)''.


           Amendment No. 15 Offered by Mr. Beyer of Virginia

       Page 220, line 22, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $2,500,000) (increased by $2,500,000)''.


  Amendment No. 16 Offered by Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico

       Page 220, line 22, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $2,000,000) (increased by $2,000,000)''.


         Amendment No. 17 Offered by Mr. Norcross of New Jersey

       Page 220, line 22, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000)''.


        Amendment No. 18 Offered by Mr. Keating of Massachusetts

       Page 221, line 25, after the dollar amount insert the 
     following: ``(reduced by $5,000,000) (increased by 
     $5,000,000)''.


          Amendment No. 22 Offered by Ms. Jackson Lee of Texas

       At the end of division C (before the short title), insert 
     the following:
       Sec. __.  The amounts otherwise provided by this Act are 
     revised by reducing the amount made available for 
     ``Department of Veterans Affairs--Departmental 
     Administration--Information Technology Services'' (and the 
     amount specified under such heading for operations and 
     maintenance), and by increasing the amount made available in 
     fiscal year 2018 for ``Veterans Health Administration--
     Medical Services'', by $2,500,000 and $2,000,000, 
     respectively.


          Amendment No. 25 Offered by Ms. Jackson Lee of Texas

       At the end of division C (before the short title), insert 
     the following:
       Sec. __.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs in contravention 
     of subchapter III of chapter 20 of title 38, United States 
     Code.


          Amendment No. 26 Offered by Mr. Connolly of Virginia

       At the end of division C (before the short title), insert 
     the following:
       Sec. __.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to charge a veteran a fee for a veterans 
     identification card pursuant to section 5706(c) of title 38, 
     United States Code, if the veteran uses form DD-214 to apply 
     for the identification card and indicates on the form that 
     the veteran is ``homeless''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 473, the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. Dent) and the gentlewoman from Florida (Ms. 
Wasserman Schultz) each will control 10 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Pennsylvania.
  Mr. DENT. Mr. Chair, these amendments have been made in order by the 
rule allowing consideration of H.R. 3219, and their inclusion in the en 
bloc has been agreed to by both sides.
  I support the adoption of the en bloc package, and I reserve the 
balance of my time.
  Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Chair, I rise in support of this amendment 
and support the en bloc amendments. I appreciate the chairman's 
inclusion of amendments from Democratic Members.
  The amendments included range from therapy grants to combating opioid 
abuse. These amendments will deliver better care to our veterans.
  The minority has no objection to this amendment, and I urge a ``yes'' 
vote on the en bloc amendment.
  Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. DENT. Mr. Chair, I have no further speakers on the amendments en 
bloc, and I yield back the balance of my time.
  Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from Virginia (Mr. Beyer).
  Mr. BEYER. Mr. Chair, my amendment would direct the Vet Centers to 
use $2.5 million of the additional funding allocated in the underlying 
bill to provide outdoor experiences for veterans as part of their 
continuum of care. This program would support veterans in developing a 
community of support to treat combat-related injuries, especially those 
related to their behavioral health.
  The Vet Centers are uniquely positioned for the collaboration and 
development of alternative and supplemental approaches. We know that 
traditional mental health services are underutilized by veterans, but a 
2014 University of Texas study found that, after just a one-week-long 
Outward Bound veterans wilderness expedition, those veterans who 
participated showed clinically significant improvements in mental 
health variables like sense of social connection and attitudes towards 
seeking psychological help. They also showed important decreases in 
depression and anxiety.
  The Senate Appropriations Committee has already included the same 
language in their version of the MILCON-Veterans Administration 
Appropriations bill.
  Mr. Chair, I encourage my colleagues to support this amendment. I am 
very grateful to the chairman of the subcommittee for including this in 
the en bloc amendments because it will enable Vet Centers to explore 
alternative avenues for engaging veterans in a supportive environment 
to help with both mental health and readjustment to civilian life.
  Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the 
gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Norcross).
  Mr. NORCROSS. Mr. Chair, I thank the gentlewoman from Florida (Ms. 
Wasserman Schultz) for yielding and to my colleagues for including this 
amendment en bloc.
  Mr. Chair, this amendment addresses the ongoing and, unfortunately, 
growing opioid epidemic in our communities. There are 60,000 overdose 
deaths each year.
  I am vice chair of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin 
Epidemic. We are looking for ways to address this issue. It is a 
complex issue, and we want to take a variety of actions to help those 
suffering from the disease of addiction.
  Veterans with post-traumatic stress disorder, PTSD, are at increased 
risk of abusing opioids according to the AMA, the American Medical 
Association. Many brave men and women who serve come back with what is 
described as invisible wounds. We know they are not invisible. We see 
it every day. I have spoken to those veterans who live in my community 
who suffer from PTSD and, unfortunately, from the disease of addiction.
  My amendment would set aside $5 million for the National Center for 
PTSD to study the connection between addiction and PTSD. Our veterans 
are suffering, and this investment will help them. Let's get to the 
bottom of the connection between PTSD and opioid abuse. It is a simple 
but necessary way to address the epidemic.
  Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Chair, I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the 
gentleman from Nevada (Mr. Kihuen), who has been a passionate advocate 
to improve services to his rural communities.
  Mr. KIHUEN. Mr. Chair, I thank the ranking member and the chairman 
for accepting my amendment.
  Mr. Chairman, veterans have made an incredible sacrifice for our 
country, and they deserve the highest quality treatment and care when 
they return to their civilian lives.
  The Department of Veterans Affairs has the obligation to provide 
critical services to veterans and ensure that America's veterans have 
access to high-quality and affordable healthcare in their communities.
  Recently, the VA decided not to renew its contract with the Ely 
Community Clinic in my district, and it is forcing veterans in Ely and 
the surrounding communities to rely solely on the Choice Program to 
access care.
  We owe it to our veterans not to use the Choice Program as a crutch, 
but to make the proper investment in the healthcare of our veterans and 
the healthcare that they deserve. Veterans

[[Page H6420]]

have already fought for their country. They shouldn't have to fight to 
keep their VA clinic in Ely.
  The intention behind my amendment is to remind the VA that they have 
the responsibility to continue operating the healthcare clinic in Ely, 
Nevada, and to emphasize the importance of continuing to provide care 
in rural communities across the country.
  The Choice Program was not intended to allow the VA to shirk its 
responsibility for certain veterans; instead, it was supposed to help 
veterans who have nowhere else to turn.
  I was sent to Congress by the people of the Fourth Congressional 
District to fight for Nevada's veterans, and I will continue fighting 
to ensure that veterans in rural Nevada and communities across the 
country do not lose access to the VA and make sure that they receive 
the healthcare that they have earned and deserve.
  Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my 
time.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Chair, thank you for this opportunity to briefly 
explain Jackson Lee Amendment No. 22.
  Before I begin, let me express my appreciation and thanks to my good 
friends, Chairman Dent and Ranking Member Wasserman Schultz for their 
hard and constructive work in shepherding this important legislation to 
the floor.
  Chairman Dent and I worked together constructively for many years on 
the Homeland Security Committee and he has always distinguished himself 
as one of the most bipartisan members of the House.
  And Ranking Member Wasserman Schultz has for years been one of the 
ablest Members of this body; I thank them both for their commitment to 
the important work of ensuring that our veterans receive the care and 
support they have earned from a grateful nation.
  Jackson Lee Amendment No. 22 makes a modest but important improvement 
to the bill by increasing the amount of funding for the ``Supportive 
Services for Veterans' Families'' account by $2 million, offset by a 
reduction of $2.5 million to the $4 billion allocated to the VA's 
``Information Technology Systems'' account.
  Today, in our country, there are approximately 107,000 veterans (male 
and female) who are homeless on any given night.
  And perhaps twice as many (200,000) experience homelessness at some 
point during the course of a year.
  The VA's ``Supportive Services for Veterans' Families'' Program helps 
veterans; and their families, who may have fallen on hard times or hit 
a rough patch in life and need a little help from the country they 
selflessly risked their life to defend.
  Homeless veterans or veterans facing homelessness who have minor age 
children are in need of special programs that allow for housing that 
welcomes children.
  Jackson Lee Amendment No. 22 will enable this vital program to serve 
more veterans' families in need of help by providing a bit more funding 
for grants to private non-profit organizations and consumer 
cooperatives that provide supportive services to very low-income 
veteran families living in or transitioning to permanent housing.
  The SSVF Program ensures that eligible veteran families receive the 
outreach, case management, and assistance in obtaining VA and other 
benefits.
  These services may include health care, daily living, legal services, 
fiduciary and payee services, personal financial planning, child care, 
transportation, housing counseling.
  The SSVF Program enables VA staff and local homeless service 
providers to work together to effectively address the unique challenges 
that make it difficult for some veterans and their families to remain 
stably housed.
  Many homeless veterans, including in my own state of Texas, lack 
housing because they lost their job or could no longer afford rent; 
many suffer from an untreated mental illness that keeps them from 
working.
  Every day the SSVF program makes a real difference in the lives of 
real people.
  Veterans like the Air Force veteran who, hoping to utilize the skills 
he learned in the service, instead bounced from job to job after being 
discharged and found himself sleeping at night on the cold cement under 
a bridge in Chicago.
  Through the Thresholds Veterans Project, funded through the SSVF, 
this hero received steady community service support and eventually was 
placed in his own studio apartment.
  He now says, in his own words: ``I have a home. I enjoy bein' 
inside.''
  Veterans like the one in Texas who because he lost his job at a 
manufacturing plant and was unable to pay the bills, was forced to seek 
shelter for himself and his family at a homeless shelter.
  Fortunately, the homeless shelter was a SSVF grantee and was able to 
assist the veteran obtain employment and his family in securing 
affordable low-cost housing.
  There are thousands of similar success stories made possible by the 
SSVF Program that I could share but all of them share a common theme: 
they involve veterans who served their country proudly, fell down on 
their luck, picked themselves back up, and found affordable and 
sustainable housing for their families because of the assistance and 
support made possible by the SSVF program.
  Ensuring that veterans have a place of their own to call home is the 
very least we can do.
  I urge my colleagues to support the Jackson Lee Amendment and commit 
ourselves to the hard but necessary work of ending veteran homelessness 
in America.
  I urge my colleagues to support Jackson Lee Amendment No. 22.


                      ``Heroism Knows no Gender''

       Liz (Names and some identifying information have been 
     changed to protect confidentiality) is an Army Veteran and a 
     single mom. After losing her job, she struggled to pay the 
     rent and provide for her daughter. Liz's landlord said she 
     had always been an excellent tenant but his patience was 
     wearing thin as her rent arrears continued to increase. 
     Disheartened with a fruitless job search and unsure of where 
     else to turn, Liz came to the Veterans Outreach Center (VOC). 
     She was immediately connected with a Case Manager, an 
     Employment Specialist, an Accredited State Veterans Benefits 
     Counselor, and the SSVF team.
       In order to avoid the immediate crisis of homelessness, the 
     Services To Enable Positive Solutions (S.T.E.P.S) program at 
     the VOC paid Liz's rent arrears, which had escalated to an 
     amount that was insurmountable. Within a few short days of 
     connecting with the team at VOC, Liz had a job interview that 
     resulted in full-time, meaningful employment. In less than a 
     week, she had a benefits review with an on-site counselor 
     from the New York State Division of Veterans Affairs during 
     which she applied for an increase in disability compensation. 
     The payment of Liz's back rent allowed her and her daughter 
     to keep a roof over their head. With a roof over their heads 
     and their living situation stabilized, Liz was able to focus 
     on her employment and securing her benefits, which are both 
     components of an Individual Development Plan (IDP) that will 
     help Liz sustain permanent housing in the future.
       The VOC was able to stabilize Liz and her daughter while 
     concurrently providing the supportive services necessary for 
     her to maintain permanent housing. The temporary financial 
     assistance was delivered to the landlord in a timely, 
     efficient manner with the help of a S.T.E.P.S collaborative 
     partner. Through coordinated case management, the 
     aforementioned supportive services were provided quickly and 
     effectively. The longterm result of this effort is yet to be 
     determined, but at the 90-day benchmark, Liz has retained 
     both her job and her home. She has realized this goal 
     independently, without requesting any additional financial 
     assistance. Consequently, the VOC was able to better the 
     lives of a mom (a Veteran) and her child immeasurably through 
     SSVF funding.


              ``Your Unselfish Helping Hand Gave Us Hope''

       Mariano Salas and his family were the first clients to 
     participate in Community Psychiatric Clinic's (CPC) SSVF 
     program. Both Mariano and his wife had lost their jobs and 
     they and their young daughter were facing homelessness. The 
     SSVF program secured their housing and helped stabilize their 
     lives. Here is Mariano's story in his own words:
       ``I was on the brink of giving up completely. But 
     truthfully one thing I can say, no words express enough our 
     sincerest gratitude to you in assisting my family and I 
     during a very difficult hardship. Desperation, fear and 
     depression were daily emotions upon my family. But with your 
     unselfish helping hand, you gave us hope, peace, and great 
     big smiles on our faces. Your untiring assistance has given 
     us tremendous hope for a better future. SSVF gave us a boost 
     as we are working so hard to get decent paying jobs to 
     support our family and put food on our table. Today, instead 
     of focusing all our energies on fear of being homeless, we 
     are focusing our energy on securing a stable job and to 
     become self-sufficient. My wife is working now and I have 
     interviews lined up so we can support ourselves and manage 
     our daily living expenses. I am privileged and honored to 
     have been served by SSVF. Thank you SSVF and GOD BLESS YOU 
     ALL.''
       With deepest gratitude,
       Mariano Salas

  Mr. Chair, thank you for this opportunity to explain describe Jackson 
Lee Amendment No. 25, which simply provides that:
  ``None of the funds made available by this Act for the Department of 
Veteran Affairs--Benefits for Homeless Veterans and Training and 
Outreach Programs may be used in contravention of the title 38, Part 
II, Chapter 20, Subchapter II and III of the U.S. Code.
  This amendment will help ensure that the rate of homelessness among 
veterans in the United States does not increase.
  I thank Subcommittee Chairman Dent and Ranking Member  Wasserman 
Schultz for their hard work in shepherding this important legislation 
to the floor.
  I offer Jackson Lee Amendment No. 25 because I believe reducing and 
eliminating

[[Page H6421]]

homelessness among veterans, those who risked their lives to protect 
our freedom, should also be one of the nation's highest priorities.
  Homelessness among the American veteran population is on the rise in 
the United States and we must be proactive in giving back to those who 
have given so much to us.
  Jackson Lee Amendment No. 25 will help remind us of our obligation to 
provide our veterans the assistance needed to avoid homelessness, which 
includes adequately funding for programs Veterans Administration 
Supportive Housing (VASH) that provide case-management services, 
adequate housing facilities, mental health support, and address other 
areas that contribute to veteran homelessness.
  VASH is a jointly-administered permanent supportive housing program 
for disabled Veterans experiencing homelessness in which VA medical 
Centers provide referrals and case management while Public Housing 
Agencies (PHAs) administer the Section 8 housing vouchers.
  Mr. Chair, our veterans deserve the best services available, and I 
believe that we could be doing much more for them.
  Today, in our country, there are approximately 107,000 veterans (male 
and female) who are homeless on any given night.
  And perhaps twice as many (200,000) experience homelessness at some 
point during the course of a year.
  Many other veterans are considered near homeless or at risk because 
of their poverty, lack of support from family and friends, and dismal 
living conditions in cheap hotels or in overcrowded or substandard 
housing.
  While significant progress has been made, ending homelessness among 
veterans remains a big challenge.
  In my hometown of Houston for example, between the years 2010 and 
2012, the number of homeless veterans increased from 771 to 1,162.
  We must remain vigilant and continue to fight for those who put on 
the uniform and fought for us.
  Providing a home for veterans to come home to every night is the very 
least we can do.
  Mr. Chair, programs like VASH have succeeded in changing lives.
  In 2012 alone, 35,905 veterans lived in the public housing provided 
by VASH.
  I have seen the impact of such grants in my home state of Texas, and 
within my congressional district in Houston, and I am sure that this 
funding has positively impacted many communities across this country.
  In Texas, there are committed groups in Houston, working to eradicate 
the issue of homelessness.
  For example, the Michael E. DeBakey VA Medical Center has been 
involved in changing veterans' lives in a mighty way by providing 
Veterans and their families with access to affordable housing and 
medical services that will help them get back on their feet.
  Mr. Chair, we cannot let this issue of homelessness continue.
  I urge my colleagues to support Jackson Lee Amendment No. 25 and 
commit ourselves to the hard but necessary work of ending veteran 
homelessness in America.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendments en bloc offered 
by the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Dent).
  The en bloc amendments were agreed to.


           Amendment No. 13 Offered by Mr. Al Green of Texas

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 13 
printed in House Report 115-259.
  Mr. AL GREEN of Texas. Mr. Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 220, line 22, after the dollar amount insert the 
     following: ``(increased by $70,000,000)''.
       Page 225, line 6, after the dollar amount insert the 
     following: ``(reduced by $70,000,000)''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 473, the gentleman 
from Texas (Mr. Al Green) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Texas.
  Mr. AL GREEN of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I will be withdrawing my 
amendment, but I do desire to make some points.
  I am grateful to the chairperson of the committee and the ranking 
member as well. I know them to be admirable persons who desire to do 
the very best for our veterans.
  I would like to state, Mr. Chairman, that we have many people who are 
on the front line of democracy. These are the people who go to distant 
places, and a good many of them don't always return the same way they 
left, and, Mr. Chairman, as a result of this, they need special 
attention. They need medical attention.
  We have a circumstance in our country that breaks the hearts of a 
good many Americans each and every day when they see persons standing 
on the streets with signs indicating that they are veterans and that 
they need help. Mr. Chairman, what we propose to do with this amendment 
is to provide that additional help that they need.
  This amendment would accord an additional $70 million to medical 
services for homeless veterans, the veterans that we see living in the 
streets of life, the veterans who are appealing to us for help. A good 
many of them need help that goes beyond something that is physically 
wrong with them. A good many of them may need some help because of some 
mental illness that they may have.
  Mr. Chairman, in Texas, we have, on any given night, about 1,768 
veterans who are living on the streets. According to the VA, about 
40,000 veterans were homeless on a single night in January of 2016. 
This is a decrease from where we have been.
  The decline is admirable and we ought not overlook the decline, but 
my belief is we can still do better and we can still help those who are 
in need of some services. So this amendment would accord the $70 
million and bring us back to our 2017 levels.
  Mr. Chair, I would ask that the chairperson and the ranking member 
please understand that my desire is to be of service to our veterans.
  Mr. Chairman, if I may engage in a colloquy at this time. You have 
heard my appeal. My hope is that Congressman Dent and I might be able 
to work together to do what we can to enhance the services that are 
needed to provide medical attention for homeless veterans. I am sure 
that Congressman Dent has seen the evidence of it, and the empirical 
evidence is available for us to review if we would like to, but I would 
like as much assistance as we can get.
  Mr. DENT. Will the gentleman yield?
  Mr. AL GREEN of Texas. I yield to the gentleman from Pennsylvania.
  Mr. DENT. Mr. Chair, I thank the gentleman for his genuine concern 
and thoughtfulness with respect to veterans' homelessness. It is indeed 
a very severe problem. I do look forward to working with him on this 
issue, but I also want to mention that I think our bill does respond 
quite admirably in many ways to the homelessness challenge.
  We support more than $7.3 billion in medical care, housing, social 
service, and job training assistance for homeless veterans, and that is 
about $197 million more this year than in fiscal year 2017 and almost 
$450 million more than 2 years ago. But Congressman Green is correct 
that we can always do more and that this challenge continues to plague 
us. We have made great progress in this country, but I pledge to work 
with Mr. Green on this issue.
  Mr. AL GREEN. Mr. Chair, I thank Chairman Dent.
  And if I may just say to the ranking member on our side, I greatly 
appreciate Congresswoman Wasserman Schultz having helped us to bring 
this to the floor to this extent, and I look forward to working with 
her as well.
  Mr. Chair, the need to help people who are willing to give it all for 
us is something that we can never overlook, and I am grateful.
  Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time, and I withdraw my 
amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The amendment is withdrawn.
  Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Chairman, as the designee of Ranking 
Member Lowey, I move to strike the last word.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman from Florida is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Chairman, President Trump, the ``Commander 
in Tweet,'' tweeted this morning announcing a ban on transgender 
military service, which was a completely baseless and hateful assault 
on transgender Americans. Make no mistake: this was not just a midnight 
tweet. This was a statement of this administration's discriminatory 
policies and a step backwards for our Nation.

[[Page H6422]]

  While the President tweeted that his decision came after consulting, 
supposedly, with our Nation's top generals, that was apparently news to 
them, as it was met with utter surprise and silence from Pentagon 
leaders.

                              {time}  1845

  Additionally, the President may want to speak to his VA Secretary, as 
the VA has unequivocally stated VA's policy has not changed. The VA 
provides care, benefits, and other VA services to all veterans, 
including transgender veterans.
  The President's policy reversal comes after our military has 
undertaken a measured and thoughtful process to make our military open 
to LGBT Americans to serve their Nation with pride and patriotism. This 
thoughtful process included the successful repeal of Don't Ask, Don't 
Tell, which had the support of civilian and military defense leaders 
and an overwhelming number of Americans.
  Unlike the President's tweets, the decision to make our military more 
open was not made rashly or with the intention to discriminate.
  With over 6,000 transgender Americans serving on Active Duty, in the 
National Guard, and in our Reserve forces, it would be reckless, 
dangerous, and cruel to remove brave servicemembers from their critical 
roles protecting the American people. It is reckless and dangerous to 
immediately leave vacant positions that are so vital to our national 
security.
  It would be cruel to perniciously discharge these servicemembers less 
than honorably, an act that could gravely impact whether they are 
eligible for VA benefits.
  Time and again, we see the dramatic and unintended consequences of 
this President's thoughtless actions.
  As we fight for an open military, we will also fight to provide the 
proper care and resources to the over 130,000 transgender veterans that 
fought to defend this Nation.
  Additionally, whatever my colleagues on the other side of the aisle 
may say, this decision was not based on a financial cost-benefit 
analysis.
  Allowing transgender people to serve in the military would raise 
defense health spending by less than 0.1 percent annually, including 
funds for gender reassignment surgeries. That is just $2.4 million to 
$8.4 million.
  In comparison, just so we are illustrative, the Pentagon spends 
$84.24 million annually on erectile dysfunction prescriptions. Of that, 
$41.6 million was specifically spent on Viagra.
  Moreover, research has shown that greater inclusion has little or no 
impact on unit cohesion, operational effectiveness, or readiness. In 
fact, commanders have noted that these policies benefited all 
servicemembers by creating a more inclusive and diverse force.
  Mr. Chairman, several things are clear:
  This was not a decision based on fiscal responsibility.
  This was not a decision based on military readiness.
  This decision was apparently made to save the President's immoral, 
irresponsible border wall, because some Republican Members threatened 
to bring down the entire minibus appropriations bill that we are 
debating here today over transgender medical treatment in the military.
  This decision, at the end of the day, was based purely on bigotry and 
hate, and it is one that we will vehemently oppose.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.


               Amendment No. 20 Offered by Mr. Ratcliffe

  The Acting CHAIR (Mr. LaHood). It is now in order to consider 
amendment No. 20 printed in House Report 115-259.
  Mr. RATCLIFFE. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       At the end of division C (before the short title) insert 
     the following:
       Sec. __.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to propose, plan for, or execute a new or additional 
     Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) round.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 473, the gentleman 
from Texas (Mr. Ratcliffe) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Texas.
  Mr. RATCLIFFE. Mr. Chairman, I thank Chairman Dent and the ranking 
member for their hard work on behalf of the 63,000 veterans in my 
district, as well as servicemembers and veterans from all across the 
country.
  I am also grateful for the support of Congressman Shuster in offering 
this amendment, an amendment which would simply prohibit any funds made 
available in this division from being used to propose, plan for, or 
execute a new or additional round of base realignment and closure, or 
BRAC.
  Mr. Chairman, I am honored to represent the Fourth Congressional 
District of Texas, which is home to the Red River Army Depot. The Depot 
has supported the warfighter since 1941. Although the Depot community 
has weathered a lot of changes over the years, their commitment to 
mission has always remained the same. On the placards inside each 
vehicle there are the words: ``We build it as if our lives depend on 
it. Theirs do.''
  The Red River Army Depot is a vital job creator for northeast Texas 
and my district, and it is a critical component to our national 
defense. And as we continue our constitutional obligation to 
appropriate money, we have to be careful stewards of taxpayer dollars, 
and focus our limited resources on addressing the critical national 
security objectives and military readiness.
  Having another round of BRAC, Mr. Chairman, won't help us achieve 
this goal. According to the Government Accountability Office, the last 
round of BRAC in 2005 actually cost the American taxpayers $35.1 
billion, which is 67 percent more than the original cost estimate. At 
the same time, the expected savings from the last round of BRAC have 
been reduced by 73 percent.
  Starting another BRAC would weaken our capabilities, and it would 
increase our vulnerability in the face of critical threats that face 
this Nation right now.
  I thank my colleagues who have supported this important amendment for 
the past 2 years, and I look forward to having this amendment included 
in this year's Military Construction and VA Appropriations bill.
  Mr. DENT. Will the gentleman yield?
  Mr. RATCLIFFE. I yield to the gentleman from Pennsylvania.
  Mr. DENT. I just want to say for the Record that I appreciate the 
gentleman's concern for his district. I am not going to oppose the 
amendment, but I did want to say that, at some point, there will need 
to be a BRAC. There is a lot of excess capacity in the Army and the Air 
Force. But for fiscal year `18, I can accept this amendment, but down 
the road I see the need.
  Mr. RATCLIFFE. Mr. Chairman, I thank the chairman for accepting the 
amendment, and I yield back the balance of my time.
  Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to the 
amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman from Florida is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Chairman, I, like many Members, have 
concerns regarding another round of BRAC. I realize that this is a 
complicated issue for all Members of Congress, especially those with 
military facilities in their congressional districts.
  I have had this conversation with my chairman, Mr. Dent, several 
times. And while we both share the concerns of those Members with 
military bases in their district and other military facilities, the 
gentleman is right. We are going to need to address that we have 
facilities all across the country that really need to be evaluated 
because they are, essentially, maintaining infrastructure that is no 
longer needed.
  For example, the estimate of excess capacity for the Army is 22 
percent. The Air Force's estimate of excess capacity is roughly 30 
percent. Both the Army and the Air Force are strong supporters of 
another BRAC round.
  While this amendment really has no effect because we don't actually 
have any funding in this bill for another BRAC round, it does send the 
message that Congress is unwilling to tackle what is arguably a tough 
issue.
  This amendment would be, essentially, an abdication of our duties as 
Members of this House to ensure that taxpayer resources are being used 
in a wise and fiscally responsible way, and

[[Page H6423]]

that is something that we hear from our friends on the other side of 
the aisle regularly.
  And given that we have a very significant increase in the defense 
appropriations bill, when we have resources that we are expending or, 
essentially, wasting by not having a BRAC round, then we are, 
essentially, leaving that money on the table when we could provide it 
for our national defense.
  So I urge my colleagues to oppose this amendment. And I recognize 
that the chairman is willing to accept it, but we should underscore 
that there are no funds in this bill for a round of BRAC, so, 
essentially, the acceptance of this amendment adopts the same posture 
that this bill already holds.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Texas (Mr. Ratcliffe).
  The amendment was agreed to.


                  Amendment No. 21 Offered by Mr. Brat

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 21 
printed in House Report 115-259.
  Mr. BRAT. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       At the end of division C (before the short title) insert 
     the following:
       Sec. __. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available by this Act may be used by the Secretary of 
     Veterans Affairs to purchase, breed, transport, house, feed, 
     maintain, dispose of, or experiment on dogs as part of the 
     conduct of any study assigned to pain category D or E, as 
     defined by the Department of Agriculture.
       (b) This section shall not apply to training programs or 
     studies of service dogs described in section 1714 of title 38 
     United States Code or section 17.148 of title 38 of the Code 
     of Federal Regulations.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 473, the gentleman 
from Virginia (Mr. Brat) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Virginia.
  Mr. BRAT. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support of my amendment to 
the bill, H.R. 3219.
  I would like to thank Dina Titus, Ted Poe, Ro Khanna, Brian Mast, and 
Ted Lieu for cosponsoring this amendment.
  In short, my amendment will stop funding for painful dog experiments 
at the VA. It also includes protections to ensure service dog training 
programs can continue unencumbered so that veterans affected by 
conditions from blindness to PTSD can receive the help they need.
  My amendment combines three bipartisan issues: puppies, veterans, and 
government accountability.
  Earlier this year, when my wife Laura and I read the news report 
about the VA's dog testing program at the Richmond VA Medical Center, 
we were disturbed by the descriptions of the types of experiments 
conducted on these puppies. From what I read, the type of work they 
were doing was on the level of torture. In Richmond, this included 
inducing heart attacks. At other labs, the VA was giving 
methamphetamine to narcoleptic Dobermans.
  My family had a Doberman, and he was part of our family years back. I 
can't imagine conducting these tests on man's best friend.
  I believe our veterans deserve to receive the highest quality of 
healthcare. The Richmond VA Hospital is staffed by talented healthcare 
professionals. However, the experiments being conducted at the Richmond 
dog research lab have questionable medical benefit. The resources, 
money, time, and space being used to conduct these experiments would be 
better utilized to deliver high-quality healthcare to Richmond 
veterans. The VA's first priority should be caring for our veterans.
  A recent report by the VA Office of Research Oversight that was made 
public by a FOIA request found widespread lapses in adhering to 
protocol, failure to follow Federal animal welfare regulations, and the 
lack of sufficient documentation to justify the severity of these 
disturbing experiments. Federal taxpayer dollars are better spent 
directly caring for our Nation's veterans.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to support this amendment to 
defund these harmful experiments on man's best friend.
  Mr. POE of Texas. Will the gentleman yield?
  Mr. BRAT. I yield to the gentleman from Texas.
  Mr. POE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman for yielding 
and for filing this amendment.
  Mr. Chairman, the VA has been using taxpayer dollars to have 
experiments on dogs. It is hard to believe that would occur in our 
culture today.
  I have had three Dalmatians over the years, and I know there are a 
lot of other people who have dogs. They have service dogs that are used 
by our vets and our agencies. And the thought that our Veterans 
Administration would go ahead and torture dogs in the name of science 
and experiments is not acceptable; it is just not.
  If citizens committed these acts that the VA is committing on dogs, 
under most laws, that would be animal cruelty. They could be prosecuted 
and go to jail. But because it is the VA, because it is a government 
agency, that doesn't apply.
  But we do want the agency to stop torturing dogs in the name of 
science. There are better ways that they can spend the money, better 
ways they can figure out how to help our veterans besides taking 
careless actions against, as my friend from Virginia said, man's best 
friend. And if it's going to be man's best friend, maybe we shouldn't 
be, or we should not be torturing those dogs for any reason. So I 
support the amendment.
  Ms. TITUS. Will the gentleman yield?
  Mr. BRAT. I yield to the gentlewoman from Nevada.
  Ms. TITUS. Mr. Chairman, I, too, rise in support of this bipartisan 
amendment. I thank my colleagues, Mr. Brat, Mr. Poe, and Mr. Khanna, 
for introducing it.
  We want to prohibit funds from being used by the Department of the VA 
on studies that cause significant pain and distress to dogs.
  As a former member of the House Veterans Affairs' Committee and a 
longtime advocate of animal protection, I firmly believe we should not 
be using taxpayer dollars to fund painful and unnecessary experimental 
procedures when we have technological advances that can move us toward 
alternative methods.

                              {time}  1900

  We have seen the NIH in their chimpanzee research, and they said that 
available technologies are more accurate, faster, and less expensive 
than animal testing.
  The U.S. military is moving away from using live animals in trauma 
medical testing. We have seen that when the Coast Guard gave up their 
live tissue training program.
  The Los Angeles VA just recently announced it is suspending 
controversial and gruesome experiments on a colony of narcoleptic 
Dobermans. It is now time for the rest of the VA to do the same thing.
  This amendment is supported by the Humane Society, the Animal Welfare 
Institute, and the White Coat Waste Project.
  It is estimated that 44 percent of all households--and you heard my 
colleagues mention this--in the United States have a dog. In our 
culture, they are considered cherished pets, and they are a member of 
the family. They are not to be used for experiments. Even veterans 
themselves depend on dogs on the battlefield and at home for therapy.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to support the amendment, and that 
is just the way it is.
  Mr. BRAT. Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. DENT. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to the amendment, but I 
do not plan to oppose it.
  The Acting CHAIR (Mr. Gallagher). Without objection, the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania is recognized for 5 minutes.
  There was no objection.
  Mr. DENT. Mr. Chair, I yield to the gentlewoman from Florida (Ms. 
Wasserman Schultz), the ranking member.
  Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman for 
yielding time to me.
  Mr. Chairman, the VA conducts animal research at 74 of its 
facilities, and only 3 of these--Cleveland, Milwaukee, and Richmond--
are still conducting experiments on dogs that involve inflicting 
significant pain and distress. Just

[[Page H6424]]

yesterday, another whistleblower went public with graphic photos of 
mutilated dogs and other troubling information about dog testing at 
that facility.
  In addition, a recent VA Office of Research Oversight investigation 
found that the VA failed to keep adequate records about sick and 
suffering dogs and has consistently underreported the number of dogs 
used in experiments to Federal authorities.
  I want to be clear that this amendment, unfortunately, does not stop 
all animal research at the VA, and it doesn't even stop all dog 
research at the VA--again, unfortunately. Far from it, in fact. This 
amendment rightly and simply prohibits taxpayers' dollars from being 
spent on research that causes dogs significant pain and distress.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to support this amendment on 
behalf of Bailey, Demmy, Coqui, Minnie, and Maddie Schultz.
  Mr. DENT. I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Brat).
  The amendment was agreed to.


              Amendment No. 23 Offered by Mr. King of Iowa

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 23 
printed in House Report 115-259.
  Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk made 
in order by the rule.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       At the end of division C (before the short title), insert 
     the following
       Sec. __.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to implement, administer, or enforce the prevailing 
     wage requirements in subchapter IV of chapter 31 of title 40, 
     United States Code (commonly referred to as the Davis-Bacon 
     Act).

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 473, the gentleman 
from Iowa (Mr. King) and a Member opposed each will control 5 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Iowa.
  Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, this is a Davis-Bacon amendment that 
addresses the MILCON component of the legislation that is before us.
  This Congress has had this debate a number of times over the past 
years. The history of the Davis-Bacon Act goes back to, I will say, a 
couple of Republicans that got together and decided they didn't want 
the construction market to have to face the competition of African 
Americans coming out of Alabama to build a Federal building in New York 
City. They took such great offense to that that they wrote legislation 
that is known as the Davis-Bacon Act, and the language says it requires 
a prevailing wage.
  I have spent 42 years in the construction business, if I count the 
work my son does as he owns that company today, and we have dealt with 
that, I would say, nearly every year, if not every year, throughout all 
that time.
  What we have is the Federal Government interfering in the 
relationship between the employer and the employee and setting a wage 
scale that is called prevailing wage. But that is set by folks sitting 
inside a room with a closed door, and they come out of there with the 
equivalent of a union wage mandated by the Federal Government. That is 
the net effect.
  As we have kept records over the years, the increase in the cost of 
the projects for us has been between 8 and 35 percent, depending on how 
much is labor, how much is materials, and the nature of the job.
  The Heritage Foundation has done a study or two. They come with a 
number kind of in that area. So I just boil it down to 20 percent. It 
is a 20 percent increase over the otherwise cost of a project, and that 
means this: without the Davis-Bacon wage scale imposed upon it by the 
Federal Government, the merit shop employees who meet plans and specs 
and do high-quality work--and there is nothing in our 42 years of 
history that would indicate otherwise--that we can build 5 miles of 
road instead of 4, we can build five barracks instead of four, we can 
build five bridges instead of four.
  This is an unnecessary cost to the taxpayer. It brings efficiency to 
the expenditures of the taxpayers' money, and it does a lot better job 
of taking care of our military.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge the adoption of my amendment, which simply does 
this: it says that none of the funds may be used to implement, 
administer, or enforce prevailing wage requirements that is referenced 
as Davis-Bacon.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge its adoption, and I reserve the balance of my 
time.
  Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to the 
amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman from Florida is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Chairman, I am opposed to the amendment.
  Mr. Chairman, Davis-Bacon is a pretty simple concept, and a fair one 
at that. What the Davis-Bacon Act does is to protect the government as 
well as the workers in carrying out the policy that is very simple and 
very straightforward: paying decent wages on government contracts.
  The Davis-Bacon Act requires that workers on federally funded 
construction projects be paid no less than the wages paid in the 
community for similar work. It requires that every contract for 
construction of which the Federal Government is a party in excess of 
$2,000 contain a provision defining the minimum wages paid to various 
classes of laborers and mechanics.
  Mr. Chairman, the House has taken numerous and repeated votes on this 
issue, and on every vote, this body has voted to maintain Davis-Bacon 
requirements. In fact, most recently, during consideration of the 
fiscal year 2018 National Defense Authorization Act, in a bipartisan 
fashion, the House firmly rejected a similar amendment 242-183.
  Last year, we avoided including divisive language like this in this 
bill, and it is my hope that we stop attacking the working class and 
defeat the amendment before us today and move on to more important 
matters as we surely have in front of us.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge all Members to vote ``no,'' and I reserve the 
balance of my time.
  Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, as I listen to that rebuttal, I would 
like to bring back a little more of the history of this, and it is 
this: that Davis-Bacon, and I have been looking at this a long time, as 
far as I know, and I believe it is true, is the last remaining Jim Crow 
law that exists in Federal statute today.
  We should take care to pull it out of the Federal code. Its legacy is 
badly tainted. It was built as a racist law, and that needs to be 
eliminated, and we need to have a merit shop society where people can 
compete rather than the Federal Government deciding with a board or a 
commission behind closed doors.
  Let's build more roads, more bridges, more barracks, more airstrips. 
Let's put our money to the best use we can. That is in keeping with 
Donald Trump's philosophy: get more for less. That is what you get with 
the King amendment, more for less, and we get to eliminate at least the 
effectiveness of this Jim Crow law on our MILCON as a starter.
  If we do this here, we have got an opportunity, then, to go forward 
with this and finally one day completely repeal Davis-Bacon.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the 
distinguished gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Norcross), who has been a 
passionate advocate and fighter for working men and women of this 
country.
  Mr. NORCROSS. Mr. Chairman, I thank the Congresswoman for yielding me 
time.
  I rise in strong opposition to this misguided Davis-Bacon amendment.
  Why would anybody come to this floor and say: I want to lower the 
wages for the people I represent? Why would anybody want to do that? We 
are here to help people raise their local standards of living.

  That is what this amendment would do: it would lower the wages for 
the working conditions of those very men and women that we were elected 
to serve. It would hurt the local economy, devalue the workers' pay.
  Almost 100 years ago, two Republicans, Congressman James Davis and 
Robert Bacon, realized there was a problem with the Federal Government 
and contracts. The contracts were unfair to those local economies. In 
1931,

[[Page H6425]]

unanimously approved, Davis-Bacon prevailing wage, it ensured 
construction workers coming in are paid the same as local labor--as 
local labor. It levels the playing field, ensures workers get paid a 
fair day's pay for a hard day's work--easy answers, very easy answers.
  For my colleagues supporting this amendment, I have a few questions 
of you.
  Do you want the Federal Government to make bad investments?
  Do you want to cut those wages for the very people who elected you?
  Do you want local workers to suffer, people coming into your town and 
your community, and cut the wages?
  I don't think so. We are not here to lower the standards. We are here 
to raise the standards.
  Speaking of President Trump, guess who used and paid prevailing wage? 
You have got it. Donald Trump in Atlantic City. He paid prevailing 
wages. He didn't have to. He did because he understood he wanted to 
help the people in that economy build a good product. This is what we 
are talking about: quality wages to people who go to work each and 
every day and play hard and work hard, follow the rules. That is what 
prevailing wage is, giving local communities a say in the Federal 
Government.
  The Acting CHAIR. Members are reminded to direct their remarks to the 
Chair, not to others in the Chamber in the second person.
  Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, may I inquire as to how much time is 
remaining on each side.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Iowa has 1\1/2\ minutes 
remaining. The gentlewoman from Florida has 1\1/2\ minutes remaining.
  Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself the balance of my 
time.
  Mr. Chairman, as I listen to the gentleman, unfair; there is no such 
thing as unfair when you have someone who applies for a job and they 
are willing to work for a wage, and we want to hire the best people we 
can hire. We want to keep the best people we hire, and we want to pay 
the best benefits we can.
  But when we have the Federal Government interfering with the 
efficiency of our operations and deciding that this machine pays $25 an 
hour and this machine pays $35 an hour, and on this shovel, if you are 
leaning on it, that pays 20 bucks an hour, who is going to climb into 
which machine and do what? The efficiencies of our operations go 
downhill when you have got the Federal Government setting those kinds 
of things.
  We had a project years ago where the center line of the highway--we 
worked on both sides of a highway. The center line of the highway was a 
difference between two different regions with different prevailing wage 
scales. It was almost twice as much money on the south side of the 
highway as it was on the north side of the highway. Well, where do you 
think my crews wanted to work? They wanted to work on the south side of 
the highway. You have got to fight that constantly.
  We don't need the Federal Government interfering. There used to be a 
gentleman from Massachusetts that would say that we should not have the 
Federal Government interfering between any relationship between two 
consenting adults. That is what an employment is, two consenting 
adults. It is a contract. We don't need the Federal Government there.
  We need to build more projects for less money for the same standard 
of work. It is not unfair. It is high-quality work coming out of all 
the records of merit shop employees, and it is consistent with what 
America needs to do to compete with the rest of the world.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge that the body come forward and vote for this 
amendment and block the Davis-Bacon wage scales and end up with an 
efficient form of construction for MILCON.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.
  Mr. Chairman, it is unfortunate that the gentleman from Iowa 
repeatedly engages in revisionist history when it comes to walking the 
Chamber through the history of why we have Davis-Bacon.
  It was actually in 1927 that a contractor who was employing African-
American workers was building a Veterans Bureau hospital--fitting that 
we are debating this on this bill in the district of Congressman Bacon. 
What Congressman Bacon found was that there were very serious issues 
related to low wages being paid, competitive pressure towards those 
lower wages, discrimination against the wages of migrant workers, and 
so he introduced Davis-Bacon initially to be able to make sure that 
workers on construction projects would be able to be paid the 
prevailing wages in the community.
  These workers happened to be African American. That is about the only 
thing that is at all related to the so-called Jim Crow reference that 
the gentleman from Iowa made.
  We need to make sure that, no matter where you work on a Federal 
Government project, construction workers, working people who are trying 
to make sure that they produce quality work, are able to produce that 
quality work by being paid the prevailing wage in a community based on 
those standards.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.

                              {time}  1915

  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Iowa (Mr. King).
  The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the ayes 
appeared to have it.
  Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Chair, I demand a recorded vote.
  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further 
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Iowa will be 
postponed.
  It is now in order to consider amendment No. 24 printed in House 
Report 115-259.


                Amendment No. 27 Offered by Mr. Bergman

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 27 
printed in House Report 115-259.
  Mr. BERGMAN. Mr. Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 267, line 23, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $1,000,000)''.
       Page 273, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(decreased by $1,000,000)''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 473, the gentleman 
from Michigan (Mr. Bergman) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Michigan.
  Mr. BERGMAN. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support of my amendment to 
the Make America Secure Appropriations Act bill. My amendment simply 
adds $1 million to the U.S. Corps of Engineers' investigations account 
to assist with projects across the country that the Army Corps is in 
charge of overseeing.
  Projects like modernizing the Soo Locks, the lock system located in 
my district in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan which connects Lake 
Superior to the lower part of the Great Lakes through the St. Marys 
River.
  This is a project that has been around for a long time on the books. 
Projects like this that have more than 4,500 vessels and 80 million 
tons of cargo moving through the Soo Locks each year, this lock system 
plays a critical role in the transport of raw materials and other goods 
through the Great Lakes region to ports around the entire country.
  And currently, the construction of a new lock, which is integral not 
only to my district, but the entire United States, is caught in a mire 
of uncertainty, and it all comes down to one thing: funding.
  I think it is appropriate that we are considering this amendment in 
the context of making America secure because it might be a surprise to 
some to learn that modernizing the Soo Locks is a matter of national 
security.
  A recent Department of Homeland Security report has made clear that 
an unexpected interruption to the Poe--the largest lock in the system--
would have disastrous economic impacts across the Nation, to include a 
$1.1 trillion fall in national gross domestic product and a spike in 
national unemployment to a rate of 11.3 percent.
  Again, this is the Department of Homeland Security saying this. And 
while Congress has authorized the construction of a new lock twice now 
over several years, the Soo has been tied up

[[Page H6426]]

in economic reevaluations and studies that have ultimately kept 
Congress and the Corps from spending the necessary funds to complete 
the project.
  This amendment sends a message to the Army Corps and reminds Congress 
that projects like the Soo Locks modernization must be a priority.
  During a time when infrastructure projects and national security are 
at the forefront of our policy conversations, projects like the Soo 
Locks should not be delayed because of funding uncertainty or limits to 
the Army Corps of Engineers' ability to do its due diligence in 
conducting the studies.
  I also wanted to take a minute and thank the chairman for working 
with me and understanding how significant and important the Soo Locks 
modernization and projects like this around the country are to our 
economy and our national security.
  Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to support this amendment, and I 
reserve the balance of my time.
  Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chair, I rise in opposition to the amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman from Ohio is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chair, I rise in very reluctant opposition to this 
amendment. I agree with the goal. I agree with the fine Congressman's 
goal of getting that lock modernized, improving the access, and 
securing the Great Lakes region for generations to come. My problem 
lies in the offset coming out of the Energy Efficiency & Renewable 
Energy accounts.
  So I would only ask the gentleman to consider advising his 
colleagues, who will go into conference, if we could find a different 
offset, it would sure be a lot more comfortable on this side of the 
aisle.
  I want to congratulate him for his amendment and, again, reluctantly 
rise in opposition.
  Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. BERGMAN. Mr. Chair, I yield such time as he may consume to the 
gentleman from Idaho.
  Mr. SIMPSON. Actually, the offset does not come out of EERE.
  Ms. KAPTUR. Will the gentleman yield?
  Mr. SIMPSON. I yield to the gentlewoman from Ohio.
  Ms. KAPTUR. May I inquire of the gentleman, where does the offset 
come from?
  Mr. SIMPSON. It comes from Corps expenses and administration.
  Ms. KAPTUR. Well, that changes my position.
  Mr. SIMPSON. I knew we could get through this.
  Let me just say, Mr. Chairman, I understand that the Soo Locks 
project is of great importance to my colleague from Michigan, as well 
as other Members from the Great Lakes. I would be happy to work with 
them to see if we can advance this project to ensure continued 
navigation on the Great Lakes.
  I have to remind my colleague that the amendment increases the 
funding level of an account. It does not direct that funding level to a 
particular activity, and, for that reason, the amendment does not 
constitute a major shift in funding between accounts, and I will 
support the amendment.
  Mr. BERGMAN. Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Michigan (Mr. Bergman).
  The amendment was agreed to.
  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 28 
printed in House Report 115-259.
  Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Chairman, as the designee of Chairman Frelinghuysen, 
I move to strike the last word.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Idaho is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Chairman, I yield to the gentleman from New York 
(Mr. Faso) for the purpose of entering into a colloquy.
  Mr. FASO. Mr. Chairman, I thank Chairman Simpson for yielding the 
time.
  Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support of H.R. 3219, the Defense, 
Military Construction, Veteran Affairs, Legislative Branch, and Energy 
and Water Development National Security Appropriations Act.
  Specifically, I would like to discuss division D of the bill, which 
appropriates additional funding to the Army Corps of Engineers. This 
bill allocates $289.5 million to fund projects and activities to 
enhance the Nation's economic growth.
  The Whaley Lake Dam, located in my district in Pawling, New York, 
Dutchess County, will be eligible to compete for these funds, and is 
authorized pursuant to section 5003 of the Water Resources Development 
Act of 2007. Originally built in the mid-1800s, the Whaley Lake Dam is 
in critical need of repair.
  The outlet of the dam feeds a stream necessary to the movement of 
treated wastewater from multiple municipal water treatment facilities. 
Additionally, the town of Pawling is the home to nearly 9,000 
residents, including 500 homes located on Whaley Lake specifically.
  Mr. Chairman, could the chairman please confirm that the Whaley Lake 
Dam project could compete for funding included in the bill?
  Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Chairman, I thank Mr. Faso for the question. The 
gentleman is correct on his reading of the bill. Projects authorized 
under section 5003 of the 2007 water bill are eligible for this 
additional funding by the Army Corps of Engineers. This is reflected in 
report language from the Energy and Water Development, and Related 
Agencies Subcommittee.
  Mr. FASO. Mr. Chairman, I thank Chairman Simpson for this 
confirmation. I urge my colleagues to support this important bill.
  Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.


        Amendments En Bloc No. 2 Offered by Mr. Simpson of Idaho

  Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Chairman, pursuant to section 3 of House Resolution 
473, as the designee of the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. 
Frelinghuysen), I offer amendments en bloc.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendments en bloc.
  Amendments en bloc No. 2 consisting of amendment Nos. 29, 30, 33, 34, 
45, 47, 48, 66, 67, 68, and 69 printed in House Report 115-259, offered 
by Mr. Simpson of Idaho:

      Amendment No. 29 Offered by Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico

       Page 268, line 20, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $10,000,000) (increased by $10,000,000)''.


            Amendment No. 30 Offered by Mr. Welch of Vermont

       Page 268, line 20, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $10,000,000) (increased by $10,000,000)''.


           Amendment No. 33 Offered by Mr. Curbelo of Florida

       Page 268, line 20, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $45,000,000) (increased by $45,000,000)''.


           Amendment No. 34 Offered by Mr. Nolan of Minnesota

       Page 270, line 22, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $325,000)''.
       Page 273, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $325,000)''.


         Amendment No. 45 Offered by Mr. Larson of Connecticut

       Page 286, line 24, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $48,000,000) (increased by $48,000,000)''.


          Amendment No. 47 Offered by Mr. Takano of California

       Page 286, line 24, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000)''.


        Amendment No. 48 Offered by Mr. DeSaulnier of California

       Page 291, line 13, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $1,200,000)''.
       Page 296, line 10, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $1,200,000)''.


            Amendment No. 66 Offered by Mr. Stivers of Ohio

       At the end of division D (before the short title), insert 
     the following:
       Sec. __.  None of the funds made available by this division 
     may be used for the Cape Wind Energy Project on the Outer 
     Continental Shelf off Massachusetts, Nantucket Sound.


         Amendment No. 67 Offered by Mr. Gallagher of Wisconsin

       At the end of division D (before the short title), insert 
     the following:
       Sec. __.  For ``Department of Energy--Electricity Delivery 
     and Energy Reliability'' for energy storage systems 
     demonstrations as authorized by section 641 of the Energy 
     Independence and Security Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17231), 
     there is hereby appropriated, and the amount otherwise 
     provided by this Act for ``Department of Energy--Departmental 
     Administration'' is hereby reduced by, $10,000,000.


         Amendment No. 68 Offered by Ms. Brownley of California

       At the end of division D, before the short title, insert 
     the following:
       Sec. __.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used in contravention of section 2102 of the Water 
     Resources Reform

[[Page H6427]]

     and Development Act of 2014 or section 210 of the Water 
     Resources Development Act of 1986.


        Amendment No. 69 Offered by Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois

       At the end of division D, before the short title, insert 
     the following:
       Sec. __.  None of the funds made available under title I of 
     division D of this Act may be used to require an economic re-
     evaluation of any project authorized under title VIII of the 
     Water Resources Development Act of 2007.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 473 the gentleman from 
Idaho (Mr. Simpson) and the gentlewoman from Ohio (Ms. Kaptur) each 
will control 10 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Idaho.
  Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Chairman, I appreciate that the en bloc amendments 
have been agreed to by both sides, and I would urge my Members to 
support the en bloc amendments.
  Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chair, I rise in support of the en bloc amendment.
  Mr. Chair, I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentleman from California 
(Mr. Takano).
  Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support of my amendment 
which ensures that the Department of Energy continues to fund Energy 
Innovation Hubs in the Offices of Science, Energy Efficiency & 
Renewable Energy, and Nuclear Energy.

                              {time}  1930

  The current report language accompanying H.R. 3266, which is the 
Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill, directs the DOE not 
to fund these centers.
  By passing this amendment, we will clearly express Congress' intent 
to continue funding these innovation hubs and request that the final 
report language be edited to reflect our intent.
  The four existing innovation hubs conduct critical research across 
energy fields including nuclear, solar, advanced storage, and energy 
supply chains. These hubs are modeled off of the iconic Bell 
Laboratories, but private industry no longer sustains this type of 
research due to increasing pressure to make short-term profits.
  That is why it is essential that the government conduct this 
research.
  Mr. Chairman, I encourage my colleagues to support the en bloc and 
amend the final report language so these vital innovation hubs continue 
to receive funding.
  Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendments en bloc offered 
by the gentleman from Idaho (Mr. Simpson).
  The en bloc amendments were agreed to.
  Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Chairman, as the designee of Chairman Frelinghuysen, 
I move to strike the last word.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Idaho is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Chairman, I yield to the gentleman from New Jersey 
(Mr. Lance) for the purpose of a colloquy.
  Mr. LANCE. Mr. Chairman, first, I thank Chairman Simpson for the 
committee's continued support for the Rahway River flood control 
project in the district I serve. This project is essential to the 
safety and security of communities in the district. These communities 
have worked extensively with the district office of the Army Corps, 
which, together with their colleagues at Corps headquarters in 
Washington, prepared a Tentatively Selected Plan. We are waiting for 
Corps headquarters to schedule an agency milestone meeting to finalize 
the details and begin the process of compiling a chief's report.
  Is it the committee's intent in providing funding that the Corps 
should complete the Rahway River feasibility study?
  Mr. SIMPSON. I thank the gentleman for his question.
  Yes. It has been the committee's intent that funds provided to date 
were to be used to complete the feasibility study and issue a chief's 
report. There is additional funding provided in this bill that could be 
allocated to the Rahway River study, if necessary.
  Mr. LANCE. I would further ask your assistance to ensure that the 
extensive work, expertise, and planning at the district level and the 
extensive community involvement is also followed by the Army Corps 
headquarters.
  There is growing concern in the communities I serve that Army Corps 
headquarters might shelve this project despite its continued 
authorization--as recently as the 2016 WRDA bill--and the ongoing 
funding from your subcommittee.
  This would represent the worst kind of disconnect between the needs 
of communities in need and the bureaucracy of Washington. Doing 
nothing, wasting taxpayers' time and money, and allowing the current 
hazards to endure are not an acceptable outcome.
  I would respectfully ask the full committee chairman and subcommittee 
chairman to assist in convening a meeting with the affected Members of 
Congress and the Corps to ensure we continue to move forward with this 
chosen alternative, and proceed with the project now.
  Mr. SIMPSON. I thank the gentleman for his comments.
  We would be pleased to work with the gentleman from New Jersey on 
such a meeting and to ensure a successful conclusion to the feasibility 
study.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Chair understands that Amendment No. 31 will 
not be offered.
  Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chairman, as the designee of Ranking Member Lowey, I 
move to strike the last word.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman from Ohio is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chairman, I want to express my appreciation to 
Congressman Mike Simpson and all the members of our subcommittee on 
both sides of the aisle for completing our work on time and for 
reaching agreement on many of these amendments that will save the 
Members angst tonight, and, hopefully, we won't have to work beyond 
midnight.
  I want to say, with the mark that we have received, we continue to 
move America forward on energy independence. We know that by 8 or 9 
years it is projected that America will finally be exporting more 
energy than we are importing, and we will be 100 percent energy-
efficient and energy-independent here at home.
  That is quite an accomplishment thinking back to the period of time 
in our Nation's history in the last century when we, as a nation, were 
subjected to rising oil prices because of embargoes, particularly in 
the Middle East, and we fell into deep recession here in our country 
back in the 1970s; and subsequent to that, every time gasoline went 
over $4 a gallon.
  So when we consider the Energy and Water bill, I think we all have to 
pat America on the back for having had consistent enlightened leaders 
on both sides of the aisle who understood what was important in the 
Nation's best interests.
  So as we consider this bill today--there were particular amendments 
on subjects that range as far afield as the Soo Locks and the Energy 
Information Administration, which we will get into in a moment, water 
projects that are some of the biggest job creators across this 
country--let's not lose sight of the big frame.
  The big frame really is that this is a bill that makes America more 
secure and that allows us to make progress here at home from coast to 
coast. All of our ports and all of our water infrastructure that is so 
vital not just west of the Mississippi, but the Great Lakes region and 
our coasts, some of the challenges we face in the Everglades, these are 
issues that all of America cares about, particularly when it is in your 
own backyard.
  This is a really important bill for the country. It is not the 
largest bill that is considered as part of the appropriations process, 
but it is one that is extraordinarily important. And, of course, over 
half of our budget deals with our nuclear weapons complement and making 
sure that that great asset that we have is maintained, is the finest in 
the world, and is the best managed. So this subcommittee has quite a 
jurisdiction from coast to coast.
  I really want to compliment all the Members who worked so very hard 
to bring our bill to the floor on time, within the mark that we were 
given. I thank staffs on both sides of the aisle as we proceed forward 
here.
  I know that the efforts in this bill to fund the future and new 
energy sources that are coming forward are in America's national 
interests.

[[Page H6428]]

  We look at the field of solar, for example. We have over 300,000 
people working in the solar energy field, actually more than work in 
the coal fields now. Some of those solar companies are in districts 
that I represent. This is a new industry. Renewables now comprise 10 
percent of all the energy that the country produces, and this has been 
a major accomplishment in just the last few decades.
  A lot of photovoltaic research goes back to the 1980s. We are now 
looking at wind energy, the fastest growing job sector in America. It 
is really for wind technicians.
  I thank the members of our committee on both sides of the aisle for 
appreciating the opportunity to grow this massive industry, including 
with investments such as LEEDCo in the State of Ohio; capturing the 
Saudi Arabia of wind, which is Lake Erie's complement.
  So we feel a sense of accomplishment tonight as we bring this bill to 
the floor and we look at the horizons ahead. We know that we have to 
deal with the other body, we have to compromise out any of our 
differences, but I have a hunch that we are going to be able to do that 
very well.
  I thank all those who may be listening this evening, particularly 
those who are working in our National Labs, the finest labs in the 
world that are inventing the future from coast to coast. Over a dozen 
and a half of those labs have America's best scientists working on not 
just energy research, but derivative spinoffs in the commercial sector 
that eventually benefit the entire country.
  As I mentioned, the natural gas discovery that has really been 
responsible for leading us toward energy independence was made possible 
by the fracking technology developed over many years at the U.S. 
Department of Energy. So as you look at gas prices going down at the 
pump and you look at the competition in the energy industry, we have a 
lot of people, many unsung heroes across our country in these labs who 
work tirelessly on behalf of the American people. Some are retired and 
some are still in place, but we owe them a deep debt of gratitude for 
serving the American people so nobly.
  We are going to have several other amendments that come before us 
tonight.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield to the gentleman if he wishes to make a 
statement.
  Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentlewoman. It is wonderful 
to have someone who can talk with some intelligence about what we are 
doing here, and keep the attention of the body as we are waiting for 
Members to come to the floor.
  Ms. KAPTUR. I think it is fair to say, Mr. Chairman, that you do such 
a fine job and move the bill along that people were anticipating their 
amendments would come up later in the evening. But, as usual, this is 
not just an energy efficient committee, but a very efficient committee.
  Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Chairman, I move that the Committee do now rise.
  The motion was agreed to.
  Accordingly, the Committee rose; and the Speaker Pro Tempore (Mr. 
Mitchell) having assumed the chair, Mr. Gallagher, Acting Chair of the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union, reported that 
that Committee, having had under consideration the bill (H.R. 3219) 
making appropriations for the Department of Defense for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 2018, and for other purposes, had come to no 
resolution thereon.

                          ____________________



