

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 90 (Wednesday, May 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 90 (Wednesday, May 24, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3149-S3150]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I have 10 requests for committees to 
meet during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of 
the Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


         Committee on Homeland Security and Government Affairs

  The Committee on Homeland Security and Government Affairs is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, May 
24, 2017, at 10 a.m. in order to conduct a hearing titled ``Border 
Insecurity: The Rise of MS-13 and Other Transnational Criminal 
Organizations.''


                       Committee on the Judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate, on May 24, 2017, at 10 a.m., in room SD-226 of 
the Dirksen Senate Office Building, to conduct a hearing entitled 
``Nominations.'' The witness list is attached.


            Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship

  The Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate today, May 24, 2017, off the 
floor at the start of the first scheduled vote to conduct a business 
meeting on the following:
  --The nomination of Althea H. Coetzee to be Deputy Administrator of 
the Small Business Administration.


                     Committee on Veterans' Affairs

  The Committee on Veterans' Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, May 24, 2017, in SR-418 at 2:30 
p.m. to consider S. 1094, the Department of Veterans Affairs 
Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act of 2017.


                       Committee on Intelligence

  The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet 
during the session of the 115th Congress of the U.S. Senate on 
Wednesday, May 24, 2017 from 2:30 p.m.-4 p.m., in room SH-219 of the 
Senate Hart Office Building to hold a closed hearing.


                        Subcommittee on Seapower

  The Subcommittee on Seapower of the Committee on Armed Services is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, May 
24, 2017, at 9:30 a.m., in open session.


                    Subcommittee on Strategic Forces

  The Subcommittee on Strategic Forces of the Committee on Armed 
Services is authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on 
Wednesday, May 24, 2017, at 2:30 p.m., in open and closed sessions.


     Committee on the Subcommittee Judiciary on Crime and Terrorism

  The Committee on the Judiciary, Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism, 
is authorized to meet during the session of the Senate, on May 24, 
2017, at 2:30 p.m., in room SD-226 of the Dirksen Senate Office 
Building, to conduct a hearing entitled ``Law Enforcement Access to 
Data Stored Across Borders: Facilitating Cooperation and Protecting 
Rights.''


Subcommittee on East Asia, The Pacific and International Cybersecurity 
                                 Policy

  The Committee on Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, The 
Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, May 24, 2017 at 2:15 
p.m., to hold a hearing entitled ``American Leadership in the Asia-
Pacific, Part 2: Economic Issue.''


  Subcommittee on Consumer Protection, Product Safety, Insurance, and 
                             Data Security

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to hold a meeting during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, May 
24, 2017, at 2:30 p.m. in room 253 of the Russell Senate Office 
Building.
  The Committee will hold Subcommittee Hearing on ``Pool Safety: The 
Tenth Anniversary of the Virginia Graeme Baker Pool and Spa Safety 
Act.''
  Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that that my 
intern, Kelsey Sherman, be granted privileges of the floor for the 
balance of the day.

[[Page S3150]]

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

                          ____________________



