

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 86 (Thursday, May 18, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 86 (Thursday, May 18, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3040]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                 IDAHO ANNE FRANK HUMAN RIGHTS MEMORIAL

 Mr. CRAPO. Mr. President, today I wish to commend Idahoans and 
specifically the Boise community for coming together so quickly to 
fight hate speech and related vandalism.
  Kindness, support, and respect run deep in Idaho. The response to the 
recent vandalism of the Idaho Anne Frank Human Rights Memorial in 
Boise, ID, is the most recent example of the depth of compassion in 
Idahoans. Since the recent vandalism, considerable resources have 
poured in to repair and enhance the memorial. Rather than responding 
with anger and hate, Idaho is moving forward with a positive spirit of 
renewal and inclusiveness. Dan Prinzing, executive director of the 
Wassmuth Center for Human Rights that built the memorial with support 
from the Carr Foundation and others and now partners with Boise Parks 
and Recreation to maintain the memorial, said, ``An act of hate by an 
individual is not us, the community's response to the act is what 
defines who we are and the values we share. Now what does that do for 
us? It emboldens the message of the Memorial and reinforces that our 
work is not done.''
  The Anne Frank Human Rights Memorial was dedicated to the public 15 
years ago to offer a place for visitors to consider and reflect on 
human rights and inspire engagement with others about the issue. The 
memorial is a beautiful and thought-provoking resource, which includes 
a statue of Anne Frank, quotes and excerpts of her writings, as well as 
a wall of inspiring quotes. The love and care, including the support of 
Idaho students and their families, that went into this memorial's 
creation is prevailing upon its restoration and contributing to ongoing 
human rights discussions. Among the many quotes highlighted at the 
memorial is the following from Mother Teresa, ``Kind words can be short 
and easy to speak, but their echoes are truly endless.''
  I commend all those who are coming together to counter the acts of 
hateful vandalism with kindness that will continue to echo through our 
communities and Nation.

                          ____________________



