

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 77 (Thursday, May 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 77 (Thursday, May 4, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2772]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 REMEMBERING GENERAL AMEDEO C. MEROLLA

 Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, today I join so many Rhode 
Islanders in honoring the life, service, and gifts of GEN Amedeo C. 
Merolla. Armie Merolla served his Nation and the State of Rhode Island 
with distinction, including service in the Marine Corps and more than 
30 years in the Rhode Island Army National Guard, where he rose to the 
rank of brigadier general. He earned numerous awards and decorations, 
including the Legion of Merit, the Meritorious Service Medal, and the 
Rhode Island Cross for Valor. A graduate of Harvard Law School, Armie 
was also an accomplished jurist. In the Guard, he served in the Judge 
Advocate General Corps. He also worked in public service, as assistant 
solicitor for the city of Providence and legal counsel to multiple 
Rhode Island State agencies and offices, as well as to my colleague 
Congressman James Langevin. He eventually established his own firm, 
Merolla, Accetturo & Lough, where he practiced alongside two of his 
children until the time of his death.
  Armie touched many people's lives through his generous volunteer work 
in his community, from his church to the Boys and Girls Clubs to the 
Knights of Columbus, but perhaps his greatest achievement was raising 
four children with his wife of 64 years, Kitty. My thoughts and prayers 
are with Armie's family in this time, as we celebrate his good works 
and kind spirit.

                          ____________________



