

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 104 (Monday, June 19, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 104 (Monday, June 19, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3606]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       TRIBUTE TO CHERYL BULLOCK

  Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, today I wish to commend Cheryl Bullock as 
she retires from public service. Cheryl has honorably served the people 
of Pennsylvania for 9 years through her role as my southeastern 
Pennsylvania regional director. She has been a valuable asset to my 
office, the city of Philadelphia, and the Commonwealth.
  Prior to joining my office, Cheryl spent the majority of her career 
with WPHL-TV. Cheryl spent over 20 years with the station handling 
media buys and marketing for local and national advertisers, including 
sports sponsorships and advertising with the Philadelphia Phillies, 
Flyers, and 76ers. Her tenacity and infectious laugh made her a natural 
at WPHL. She was later appointed governor of the Philadelphia 
Advertising Club from 2012 through 2014 after they recognized her 
strong leadership and dedication to her work--in and outside of the 
office.
  Upon her departure from WPHL-TV, Cheryl transitioned to the public 
relations team within the Community College of Philadelphia. From 2007 
to 2008, Cheryl managed strategic messaging, communications, and campus 
activities and events--skills she later utilized throughout her work 
for the people of Pennsylvania. Due to her creative nature and way with 
words, she was trusted to write multiple articles for three community 
college publications.
  In addition to her professional pursuits, Cheryl has held leadership 
roles in several organizations geared towards community empowerment and 
service. Cheryl served as the vice president of Philadelphia Chapter of 
the Links, Incorporated, as well as president of the National Coalition 
of 100 Black Women. The National Coalition of 100 Black Women was 
created to establish a leadership forum for Black women from all 
geopolitical and socioeconomic groups. Cheryl's service within these 
organizations is a clear demonstration of her long-standing commitment 
to improving the lives of others.
  Over the course of the last 9 years, the Commonwealth has benefited 
from Cheryl's thoughtful guidance, driven attitude, attention to 
detail, and overall leadership. We will all miss her passion for 
service and commitment to helping others. I wish Cheryl well in her 
retirement as she plans to spend more time with her husband, George, 
and son Jordan.

                          ____________________



