

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 72 (Thursday, April 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 72 (Thursday, April 27, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2600-S2601]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




       25TH ANNIVERSARY VERMONT SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT CENTER

  Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, the Vermont Small Business Development 
Center, VtSBDC, is joining SBDC's across the country in celebrating its 
25th anniversary as a crucial resource for entrepreneurs. These centers 
provide services to facilitate the creation, sustainability, and growth 
of viable businesses. In Vermont, it is no secret that we take 
particular pride in our local businesses. Our entrepreneurs and their 
businesses are at the heart of our vibrant communities, and they are 
the roots of a thriving economy.
  Over the past 25 years, VtSBDC has helped countless businesses 
capitalize on their potential. From glassblowers to forestry and 
sugarmakers to restaurants, VtSBDC has delivered thousands of hours of 
professional business counseling and training that is focused on 
strategic planning, business development, financial planning, and cash 
flow management. After the devastation of Tropical Storm Irene, VtSBDC 
reached out with State and Federal partners to offer small business 
owners the assistance and support necessary to undergo full recovery 
efforts. I am regularly reminded of VtSBDC's worth to entrepreneurs 
through client testimonials, regularly highlighting that, without the 
assistance of VtSBDC staff, their business would not have been able to 
reach the next levels. In addition to working with individuals to 
achieve their dreams, VtSBDC has also supported business incubators, or 
coworking spaces, where fledgling businesses and industries find their 
footing alongside other new businessowners.
  Founded as a pilot program run by the Small Business Administration 
in 1977, national small business development centers have a long 
history proving public-private partnerships and,

[[Page S2601]]

when done right, are a successful tool in expanding local pilot 
programs that benefit communities and States across our Nation. Small 
business owners always face many obstacles, but the professionals at 
VtSBDC provide invaluable resources, support, and advice to help 
overcome these challenges.
  I want to congratulate the Vermont Small Business Development Center 
on their 25th anniversary and thank their dedicated staff for their 
commitment, energy, and time working to make sure that Vermont's small 
businesses remain strongly grounded and growing in Vermont.

                          ____________________



