

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 76 (Wednesday, May 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 76 (Wednesday, May 3, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H3071]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




CONGRATULATING PAUL PACKER ON INDUCTION INTO NATIONAL WRESTLING HALL OF 
                                  FAME

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Thompson) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I recently attended the 
24th Honors Banquet for the Pennsylvania Chapter of the National 
Wrestling Hall of Fame. Nine new Members were inducted into the Hall's 
membership, including Paul Packer, a 1973 Bald Eagle Area High School 
graduate.
  Paul was the last 95-pound State champion in 1972. He had an 
undefeated season that year of 23-0. He started wrestling in elementary 
school for Hall of Fame coach Joe Humphreys, who continued to coach 
Paul into junior high. At the varsity level, Paul wrestled for Hall of 
Famer Dick Rhoades. He was Coach Rhoades' first State champion.
  After his competitive wrestling career was over, Paul became a 
referee. Paul was a highly respected and outstanding wrestling 
official. During his 37 years as a referee, Paul spent more than a 
dozen years officiating district and regional championships, as well as 
five State championships.
  Paul is retired and resides in Milesburg, Pennsylvania. He is active 
in his community and was a coach for the Bald Eagle Wrestling Club for 
several years.
  Mr. Speaker, from one Hall of Famer to another, congratulations, 
Paul, on this well-deserved honor.


  Pennsylvania's Fifth District Congressional Art Competition Winners

  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to announce 
the winners of the Pennsylvania Fifth Congressional District 
Congressional Art Competition.
  On Saturday, an independent panel of judges viewed 37 submissions of 
artwork at the Winkler Gallery of Fine Art in DuBois, Pennsylvania. 
Entries were at an all-time high this year, and I am so proud of all of 
our students who showcased their talent in this competition.
  First place goes to Cassy Lester of Reynoldsville for her acrylic 
painting titled ``Chocolate Lab.'' Cassy is a student at Jeff Tech, a 
career and technology education center, and her teacher is Ms. Angela 
Dragich.
  Congratulations, Cassy. We look forward to hosting you here in 
Washington, D.C., with the rest of the winners from throughout the 
Nation.
  Proudly, Cassy's artwork will hang in the tunnel to the Capitol for 1 
year.
  The other runners up are Madelyn Ostermann of Fort LeBoeuf High 
School for her entry titled ``Eyes,'' and Alexander Spangler of 
Bellefonte Area High School for his entry titled ``Tracks of 
Ingenuity.''
  We also had several honorable mentions, including ``Self Portrait'' 
by Megan DiNicola of Fort LeBoeuf High School, ``True Colors'' by 
Maggie Prutznal of Punxsutawney Area High School, ``Jungle Scene'' by 
Allison Copella of DuBois Area High School, ``Emmaleigh'' by Kailynn 
Morrison of Oil City High School, ``Wondrous Wonders'' by Willow Felver 
of Fort LeBoeuf High School, ``Wonderwall'' by Kassidy Hall of Fort 
LeBoeuf High School, and ``Thomas L. Kelly'' by Margaret Morgenstern of 
Fort LeBoeuf High School.
  Mr. Speaker, each spring the Congressional Art Competition takes 
place, hosted by the Congressional Institute. The nationwide high 
school visual art competition recognizes and encourages artistic talent 
in the Nation and in each congressional district.
  Since the Artistic Discovery competition began in 1982, more than 
650,000 high school students have participated. The vision, talent, and 
creativity of our high school students always makes me so proud.
  Thank you to all the students from Pennsylvania's Fifth Congressional 
District who shared their masterpieces this weekend, and I hope to see 
you again next year if you are eligible to showcase your work.
  Mr. Speaker, I offer congratulations to our first-place winner, 
Cassy.

                          ____________________



