

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 121 (Tuesday, July 18, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 121 (Tuesday, July 18, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S4059]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I have 9 requests for committees to 
meet during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of 
the Majority and Minority leaders.
  Purusant to rule XXVI. paragraph 5(a) of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


                      COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, July 18, 2017, at 9:30 a.m., in open 
session to consider a nomination.


                      COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, July, 18, 2017, at 2:30 p.m., in open 
session to consider the nominations.


            COMMITTEE ON BANKING, HOUSING, AND URBAN AFFAIRS

  The Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, July 18, 2017 at 10 
a.m. to conduct a hearing to consider nominations.


               COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND NATURAL RESOURCES

  The Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate in order to hold a hearing on 
Tuesday, July 18, 2017 at 10:30 a.m. in Room 366 of the Dirksen Senate 
Office Building in Washington, DC.


                          COMMITTEE ON FINANCE

  The Committee on Finance is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Tuesday, July 18, 2017, at 9 a.m., in 215 Dirksen Senate 
Office Building, to conduct a hearing entitled ``Comprehensive Tax 
Reform: Prospects and Challenges.''


                          COMMITTEE ON FINANCE

  The Committee on Finance is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Tuesday, July 18, 2017, at 11 a.m., in 215 Dirksen Senate 
Office Building, to consider the nomination of David J. Kautter, of 
Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, vice Mark J. 
Mazur.


                     COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, July 18, 2017 at 10 a.m., to hold a 
hearing entitled ``Nominations.''


                       COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE

  The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet 
during the session of the 115th Congress of the U.S. Senate on Tuesday, 
July 18, 2017 from 3:30 pm-5:00 pm, in room SH-219 of the Senate Hart 
Office Building to hold a Closed Member Briefing.


   COMMITTEE ON MULTILATERAL INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT, MULTILATERAL 
   INSTITUTIONS, AND INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC, ENERGY, AND ENVIRONMENT

  The Committee on Foreign Relations Subcommittee on Multilateral 
International Development, Multilateral Institutions, and International 
Economic, Energy, and Environmental policy be authorized to meet during 
the session of the Senate on Tuesday, July 18, 2017 at 2:30 p.m., to 
hold a hearing entitled `` `The Four Famines': Root Causes and a 
Multilateral Action Plan.''

                          ____________________



