

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 91 (Thursday, May 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 91 (Thursday, May 25, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4574]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




       HONORING THE LIFE OF SYRACUSE POLICE CAPTAIN RICHARD WALSH

  (Mr. KATKO asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.)
  Mr. KATKO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of a dear 
friend and former colleague, longtime Syracuse Police Captain Richard 
Walsh. For nearly 20 years, I served as a Federal prosecutor in central 
New York. During much of this time, I had the distinct privilege of 
working alongside Captain Walsh and witnessed firsthand his commitment 
to serving the city of Syracuse.
  Captain Walsh joined the Syracuse Police Department in 1970, rising 
to the rank of captain of detectives. He led a very successful and 
distinguished career, retiring in 2011 after 41 years on the job. On 
the day of his retirement, Captain Walsh was named the grand marshal of 
the Syracuse St. Patrick's Day parade, a mark of high distinction for 
any central New Yorker.
  In addition to his diligent efforts to keep our community safe, 
Captain Walsh volunteered countless hours to many community 
organizations, including Hunger Project, Huntington Family Center, and 
the Rape Crisis Center. Eternally proud of his Irish heritage and roots 
in Tipperary Hill, he devoted many hours to the Syracuse Irish 
Festival, was a founding member of the St. Patrick's Day parade 
committee, and served as president of the Onondaga County Ancient Order 
of Hibernians.
  Captain Richard Walsh was the true definition of a public servant. He 
loved his work, he had the utmost respect of his colleagues and 
community, and he was relentless in his efforts to make central New 
York a safer and a better place. His kindness and generosity will 
forever be remembered. May Captain Richard Walsh's name and legacy 
forever be remembered in the Congressional Record.
  Rest peacefully, my friend.

                          ____________________



