

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 105 (Tuesday, June 20, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 105 (Tuesday, June 20, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H4985-H4986]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           WORLD REFUGEE DAY

  (Ms. TENNEY asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend her remarks.)
  Ms. TENNEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor World Refugee Day, a 
day that is very special to the famous city of Utica, New York, in the 
heart of the 22nd Congressional District, a place that I have 
represented and lived my entire life.
  Utica was recognized recently as the home to refugees, and I am so 
honored

[[Page H4986]]

to be a part of this great tradition in Utica.
  In quite an unusual portion of my background, I had the opportunity 
to spend time in the former Yugoslavia. I also was the sole employee at 
the former Yugoslav Consulate before the tragic war in Yugoslavia, 
which broke the country up in the early nineties.
  As a part of my commitment to and interest in the people from 
Yugoslavia, I was instrumental in helping bring a huge number of 
Bosnian refugees to Utica, New York, back in the early nineties and 
into the late nineties. And I am so pleased that I was able to have the 
opportunity, with my family business, to create the very first Bosnian 
newspaper in Utica, known as Mostovi, which means bridges in Bosnian.
  Today, the Bosnian refugees make up one of the largest, if not the 
largest, Bosnian refugee communities in the Nation. They have done a 
wonderful job in Utica in successfully starting businesses and 
contributing greatly to our community, along with many other refugees.
  I just wanted to take this moment to recognize Utica and to thank our 
tremendous Bosnian refugees for their contributions to our Nation and 
especially to our community because without them, we would never see 
the prosperity and the growth that we have seen in our small-business 
community from their ingenuity and their kindness and their generosity 
to us.

                          ____________________



