

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 107 (Thursday, June 22, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 107 (Thursday, June 22, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H5054]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




           TRIBUTE TO COOK COUNTY COMMISSIONER ROBERT STEELE

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Illinois (Mr. Danny K. Davis) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, on Monday of this week, 
I was saddened to know of the passing of Cook County Commissioner and 
President Pro Tem Robert Steele, whom I have known since his childhood 
days. As a matter of fact, I lived in the same neighborhood with the 
Steele family from the year that Commissioner Robert Steele was born.
  I count myself as a Steele family friend and have worked with Bob's 
mother, Bobbie, since the late 1960s. His father, Robert, was a mentor 
to my son Stacey.
  I had the pleasure of watching Commissioner Steele grow from a child 
into becoming an adult and an outstanding local and national leader.
  Commissioner Steele was so much more than a man with a title. He was 
part of the glue which held his community together. He was a big 
brother to neighborhood boys whom he often took with him to events and 
activities. He was a mentor and an inspiration to those who came into 
contact with him. He was a great advocate for organ donation and 
transplantation. You see, he was a recipient from his sister, who gave 
him a kidney.
  He was an Omega man, a great frat brother, and he was a leader of the 
West Side and countywide Black elected officials. He meant the world to 
his family and brought great pride and joy to his parents, Robert and 
former Cook County Board President Bobbie Steele.
  Robert Steele was an absolute leader who provided leadership and 
guidance on a regular basis wherever he went. He was active in his 
church, in his community, in his neighborhood. He was intelligent, 
astute, and not afraid.
  Of all the people that I have known who come from the West Side of 
Chicago as elected officials, none has brought more to the table than 
Bob, except, perhaps, his mother, Bobbie.
  Our community will long remember the work of Cook County Commissioner 
Bobbie Steele. Perhaps the songwriter was correct when he said that 
``the good die young.'' Bob was indeed young, but he was a leader among 
leaders and a man among men.
  I salute you, Commissioner Robert Steele, and long may your life, 
your work, and your legacy continue.

                          ____________________



