

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 102 (Thursday, June 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 102 (Thursday, June 15, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3560]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I have 10 requests for committees to 
meet during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of 
the Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


           committee on agriculture, nutrition, and forestry

  The Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, June 15, 2017 at 
9:30 a.m., in 328A Russell Senate Office Building, in order to conduct 
a hearing entitled ``Agricultural Research: Perspectives on Past and 
Future Successes for the 2018 Farm Bill.''


                      committee on armed services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, June 15, 2017, at 9:30 a.m., in open 
session, to receive testimony on the posture of the Department of the 
Navy in review of the defense authorization request for fiscal year 
2018 and the future years defense program.


            committee on banking, housing, and urban affairs

  The Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, June 15, 2017, at 
9:45 a.m. to conduct a hearing entitled, ``Fostering Economic Growth: 
Midsized, Regional and Large Institution Perspective.''


               committee on energy and natural resources

  The Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate in order to hold a hearing on 
Thursday, June 15, 2017 at 10 a.m. in Room 366 of the Dirksen Senate 
Office Building in Washington, DC.


               committee on environment and public works

  The Committee on Environment and Public Works is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on June 15, 2017, at 10 a.m., in room 
406 of the Dirksen Senate office building.


                     committee on foreign relatios

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, June 15, 2017 at 10:15 a.m., to hold 
a hearing entitled ``Nominations.''


                       committee on the judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate, on June 15, 2017, at 10 a.m., in SD-226 of the 
Dirksen Senate Office Building, to conduct an executive business 
meeting.


                     committee on veterans' affairs

  The Committee on Veterans' Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, June 15, 2017, at 11 a.m. in SR-418, 
to conduct a hearing on legislation pending before the committee.


                       committee on intelligence

  The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet 
during the session of the 115th Congress of the U.S. Senate on 
Thursday, June 15, 2017 at 1:30 p.m., in room SH-219 of the Senate Hart 
Office Building to hold a closed briefing followed by a closed hearing.


       subcommittee on regulatory affairs and federal management

  The Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs and Federal Management of the 
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, June 15, 2017 at 
9:30 a.m. in order to conduct a hearing entitled, ``Agency Approaches 
to Reorganization: Examining OMB's Memorandum on the Federal 
Workforce.''

                          ____________________



