

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 98 (Thursday, June 8, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 98 (Thursday, June 8, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3359]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        TRIBUTE TO JAKE HEINECKE

 Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this week, I have the distinct 
honor of recognizing Jake Heinecke, a law enforcement officer from 
Fergus County who retired from full-time service at the end of May. 
Deputy Heinecke spent two decades protecting and serving the people of 
Montana.
  Deputy Heinecke was raised with a strong family background in law 
enforcement. His father was an instructor at the Montana Law 
Enforcement Academy, and the calling to law enforcement was clearly a 
natural fit for Jake. During the midnineties, Deputy Heinecke began his 
career as a reserve deputy in Beaverhead County, nestled in the 
southwestern corner of Montana. He quickly transitioned to full-time 
law enforcement after finishing college and served Beaverhead County 
for 15 more years. During the final chapters of his full-time law 
enforcement career, Deputy Heinecke served the people of Fergus County, 
located in the geographic center of the State. Troy Eades, the Fergus 
County sheriff, described Deputy Heinecke's performance in the 
department with concise clarity, ``Great job. Great officer.''
  Despite retiring from full-time law enforcement, Jake plans to 
continue to play a role in the community by serving in the Central 
Montana Ambulance Service as a full-time EMT. Montanans appreciate the 
work of our law enforcement and emergency services professionals. When 
someone gives over two decades of their professional life to protect 
and serve others, that accomplishment deserves our sincere gratitude. 
Thanks, Jake, for helping keep ``The Last Best Place'' safe for all of 
us to enjoy.

                          ____________________



