

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 129 (Monday, July 31, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 129 (Monday, July 31, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S4616]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          PRESIDENTIAL MESSAGE

                                 ______
                                 

     REPORT ON THE CONTINUATION OF THE NATIONAL EMERGENCY THAT WAS 
 ORIGINALLY DECLARED IN EXECUTIVE ORDER 13441 WITH RESPECT TO LEBANON, 
   RECEIVED DURING ADJOURNMENT OF THE SENATE ON JULY 28, 2017--PM 15

  The PRESIDING OFFICER laid before the Senate the following message 
from the President of the United States, together with an accompanying 
report; which was referred to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
Urban Affairs:

To the Congress of the United States:
  Section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) 
provides for the automatic termination of a national emergency unless, 
within 90 days of the anniversary date of its declaration, the 
President publishes in the Federal Register and transmits to the 
Congress a notice stating that the emergency is to continue in effect 
beyond the anniversary date. In accordance with this provision, I have 
sent to the Federal Register for publication the enclosed notice 
stating that the national emergency with respect to Lebanon that was 
declared in Executive Order 13441 of August 1, 2007, is to continue in 
effect beyond August 1, 2017.
  Certain ongoing activities, such as continuing arms transfers to 
Hizballah that include increasingly sophisticated weapons systems, 
undermine Lebanese sovereignty, contribute to political and economic 
instability in the region, and continue to constitute an unusual and 
extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the 
United States. For this reason, I have determined that it is necessary 
to continue the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13441 
with respect to Lebanon.
                                                     Donald J. Trump.  
The White House, July 28, 2017.

                          ____________________



