

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 70 (Tuesday, April 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 70 (Tuesday, April 25, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2535]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I have 5 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to Rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


                      Committee on Armed Services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, April 25, 2017, at 9:30 a.m., in open 
session, to receive testimony on policy and strategy in the Asia-
Pacific.


                          Committee on Finance

  The Committee on Finance is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Tuesday, April 25, 2017, at 10 a.m., in 215 Dirksen 
Senate Office Building, to consider the nomination of Robert 
Lighthizer, of Florida, to be United States Trade Representative.


                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, April 25, 2017, at 9:45 a.m., to hold 
a hearing entitled ``The Crisis in Libya: Next Steps and U.S. Policy 
Options.''


                       Committee on the Judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate, on April 25, 2017, at 10 a.m., in room SD-226 of 
the Dirksen Senate Office Building, to conduct a hearing entitled 
``Intellectual Property--Driver of Innovation: Making Our Lives 
Healthier, Safer, and more Productive.''


                       Committee on Intelligence

  The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet 
during the session of the 115th Congress of the U.S. Senate on Tuesday, 
April 25, 2017, from 2:15 p.m.-4:00 p.m., in room SH-219 of the Senate 
Hart Office Building to hold a closed hearing.

                          ____________________



