

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 125 (Tuesday, July 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 125 (Tuesday, July 25, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S4186]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                     TRIBUTE TO DR. TEMPLE GRANDIN

  Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, today I wish to honor Dr. Temple 
Grandin's induction into the National Women's Hall of Fame. Dr. Grandin 
is an internationally recognized leader for her work in animal sciences 
and autism awareness. I would also like to wish Dr. Grandin a happy 
70th birthday.
  Dr. Grandin has contributed immensely to the study of animal sciences 
and the agriculture industry. She has been an esteemed college 
professor at Colorado State University for more than 20 years, and much 
of her research and inventions have become standard industry procedure, 
like humane cattle slaughter. She began her career in the early 1970s 
and was one of only a handful of women working in animal sciences. She 
paved the way for other women to thrive in this industry.
  In addition to her professorship, Dr. Grandin has become a well-known 
advocate and spokeswoman for autism awareness. She has published 
countless books about living with autism and has been recognized on the 
Time Magazine's Top 100 Most Influential People under the ``Heroes'' 
category. She has received honorary doctorate degrees from 13 
universities across the country and around the world. Dr. Grandin has 
also received numerous industry awards for her significant 
contributions to agriculture, as well as her advocacy for autism 
awareness.
  Dr. Grandin has undoubtedly left a lasting impression on the animal 
sciences and autism advocacy. I congratulate her induction into the 
prestigious National Women's Hall of Fame and again wish Dr. Grandin a 
very happy birthday.

                          ____________________



