

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 126 (Wednesday, July 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 126 (Wednesday, July 26, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H6310]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  HONORING EDNA BERNICE HARVEY TURMAN

  (Mr. CRAWFORD asked and was given permission to address the House for 
1 minute.)
  Mr. CRAWFORD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in honor of Edna Bernice 
Harvey Turman, who is celebrating her 100th birthday on August 15 of 
this year.
  Edna was born in 1917 and grew up just south of my own hometown, 
Jonesboro, in a community called Apt with her mother and father, Bill 
and Molly Harvey.
  She began working at Harvey's grocery store, and afterwards she met a 
man named Raymond Turman. The pair married in 1936 and farmed and 
raised cattle together.
  During World War II, Edna and Raymond farmed for the government and 
sold soybeans, cotton, creamed milk, and formed butter.
  Edna and Raymond had five children: Mary, Barbara, Billy Ray, Garry, 
and Ronnie. Edna also has 9 grandchildren, 12 great-grandchildren, and 
8 great-great-grandchildren.
  An active member of her community and county, Edna is very passionate 
about her church, was a member of the International Order of the 
Rainbow for Girls, and even helped run the voting location in south 
Craighead County for several years.
  Today, besides being a happy grandmother, great-grandmother, and 
great-great-grandmother, Edna still lives on the old homestead and 
works in her yard. Edna truly is a member of the greatest generation of 
Americans by which all the following generations are measured, and 
whether we realize it or not, it was people like Edna who built our 
communities and continue to shape the America we live in today. I hope 
you will join me in wishing her a happy 100th birthday.

                          ____________________



