

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 112 (Thursday, June 29, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 112 (Thursday, June 29, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3846-S3847]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE SESSION

                                 ______
                                 

                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I move to proceed to executive session 
to consider the nomination of Executive Calendar No. 104, William 
Hagerty to be Ambassador to Japan.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The question is on agreeing to the motion.
  The motion was agreed to.

[[Page S3847]]

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will report the nomination.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read the nomination of William 
Francis Hagerty IV, of Tennessee, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and 
Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Japan.


                             Cloture Motion

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I send a cloture motion to the desk.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The cloture motion having been presented under 
rule XXII, the Chair directs the clerk to read the motion.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read as follows:

                             Cloture Motion

       We, the undersigned Senators, in accordance with the 
     provisions of rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the Senate, 
     do hereby move to bring to a close debate on the nomination 
     of William Francis Hagerty IV, of Tennessee, to be Ambassador 
     Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of 
     America to Japan.
         Mitch McConnell, Chuck Grassley, Deb Fischer, Steve 
           Daines, Luther Strange, Bob Corker, Thom Tillis, Tom 
           Cotton, Tim Scott, Johnny Isakson, Richard C. Shelby, 
           Michael B. Enzi, Richard Burr, John Hoeven, David 
           Perdue, Roy Blunt, Todd Young.

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the 
mandatory quorum call with respect to the cloture motion be waived.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


     Orders for Monday, July 3, 2017, Through Monday, July 10, 2017

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that when the 
Senate completes its business today, it adjourn, to then convene for 
pro forma sessions only, with no business being conducted, on the 
following dates and times, and that following each pro forma session, 
the Senate adjourn until the next pro forma session: Monday, July 3, at 
6 p.m., Thursday, July 6, at 9 a.m. I further ask that when the Senate 
adjourns on Thursday, July 6, it next convene at 3 p.m., Monday, July 
10; that following the prayer and pledge, the morning hour be deemed 
expired, the Journal of proceedings be approved to date, the time for 
the two leaders be reserved for their use later in the day, and morning 
business be closed; further, that following leader remarks, the Senate 
proceed to executive session and resume consideration of the Rao 
nomination; finally, that notwithstanding the provisions of rule XXII, 
the postcloture time on the Rao nomination expire at 5:30 p.m., Monday, 
July 10.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mr. McCONNELL. I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. CORKER. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

                          ____________________



