

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 127 (Thursday, July 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 127 (Thursday, July 27, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H6473-H6474]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   IN MEMORY OF PFC JAMES T. STANFORD

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Alabama (Mr. Aderholt) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. ADERHOLT. Mr. Speaker, this morning, I would like to recognize 
Marine Private First Class James T. Stanford for his duty, his selfless 
service, and his sacrifice to our great Nation.
  Stanford was a native of Gadsden, Alabama, and he lost his life back 
in 1954 after a devastating explosion on board the aircraft carrier USS 
Bennington. I am honored to recognize Private First Class Stanford this 
morning, who made the ultimate sacrifice in service to our great 
Nation.
  Stanford attended Gadsden High School in Gadsden, Alabama, before 
enlisting in the United States Marine Corps on February 21, 1953. After 
completing basic training at Parris Island, South Carolina, he was 
assigned to the USS Bennington in June 1953.
  On May 26, 1954, the USS Bennington was sailing off the coast of 
Rhode Island for aircraft carrier qualification when hydraulic fluid 
from a forward catapult caught fire. The resulting explosion caused 
massive damage to the forward portion of the ship. It resulted in over 
200 casualties, including 103 sailors and marines who lost their lives 
that day.
  On May 28, 1954, Private First Class James Stanford, at just 20 years 
old, succumbed to his critical burn wounds and passed away at Newport 
Naval Hospital in Rhode Island. By his side were his wife, the former 
Lou Moore; and his father, Mr. J.C. Stanford. James and his wife, Lou, 
had recently celebrated their first wedding anniversary.
  Mr. Speaker, may the sacrifice of Private First Class James T. 
Stanford and the other 102 sailors and marines who lost their lives as 
a result of that explosion onboard the USS Bennington on May 26, 1954, 
never be forgotten, and may those individuals be remembered as they 
gave their all.

[[Page H6474]]

  

                          ____________________



