

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 96 (Tuesday, June 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 96 (Tuesday, June 6, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3297]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, I have 6 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


                      Committee on Armed Services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, June 6, 2017, at 9:30 a.m., in open 
session, to receive testimony on the posture of the Department of the 
Air Force in review of the defense authorization request for fiscal 
year 2018 and the future years defense program.


            Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs

  The Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, June 6, 2017, at 10 
a.m. to conduct a hearing to consider the following nominations: Mr. 
Kevin Allen Hassett, to be Chairman of the Council of Economic 
Advisers; and the Honorable Pamela Hughes Patenaude, to be Deputy 
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.


               Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

  The Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate in order to hold a Business 
Meeting on Tuesday, June 6, 2017, beginning at 9:30 a.m. in Room 366 of 
the Dirksen Senate Office Building in Washington, DC.


        Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs

  The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, June 6, 
2017, at 10 a.m. in order to conduct a hearing.


                    Select Committee on Intelligence

  The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet 
during the session of the 115th Congress of the U.S. Senate on Tuesday, 
June 6, 2017, at 3 p.m., in room SH-219 of the Senate Hart Office 
Building.


                        Subcommittee on Seapower

  The Subcommittee on Seapower of the Committee on Armed Services is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, June 6, 
2017, at 2:30 p.m.
  Mr. NELSON. Mr. President, I ask consent that LCDR Michael Chesnut, 
U.S. Navy, a defense legislative fellow in my office, be granted floor 
privileges for the duration of his fellowship.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

                          ____________________



