

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 130 (Tuesday, August 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 130 (Tuesday, August 1, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4665-S4666]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                       TRIBUTE TO DAVID HOLLISTER

 Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, today I wish to pay special 
tribute to my longtime friend and former legislative colleague, David 
Hollister. On August 14, 2017, the city of Lansing will be renaming 
their city hall the ``David C. Hollister City Hall,'' a very fitting 
tribute to this dedicated public servant.
  Over the years, Dave Hollister has been a mentor, a colleague, and a 
friend to me. I first met Dave when I was a student at Michigan State 
University, working at the Cristo Rey Community Center in Lansing. As a 
teacher, he encouraged my first run for office: the Ingham County Board 
of Commissioners. I later served with him for over a decade in the 
Michigan House of Representatives and have worked closely with him over 
the years in his various public service roles.
  In today's divisive political climate, Dave Hollister represents the 
very best of public service. He has selflessly served in State and 
local government. Without acclaim, he has worked tirelessly to do what 
is right for people. Able to bring people together to forge solutions 
on the most difficult problems, he is a community organizer in the 
truest sense of the word.
  Naming the Lansing City Hall after Dave Hollister is not only a 
fitting tribute to him, but a tribute to the kind of public service his 
life represents.
  After serving in the Michigan House of Representatives, Dave was 
elected mayor of the city of Lansing in 1993. While mayor, he inspired 
and led what is known as the ``Lansing Works! Keep GM!'' movement. Dave 
brought together community leaders in government, business, and labor 
and convinced General Motors to stay and invest over $1 billion in the 
Lansing area. This effort saved thousands of jobs and prevented a 
crisis in the region. Dave's leadership serves as a model of teamwork 
for leaders and communities across our country.
  Keeping General Motors in Lansing is just one example of Dave's 
leadership. After serving as mayor, he was appointed director of the 
Michigan Department of Labor and Economic Growth in 2003. Subsequently, 
Dave served as president and CEO of Prima Civitas, a nonprofit economic 
and community development organization

[[Page S4666]]

based in East Lansing. Congratulations to my dear friend, David 
Hollister, on receiving this special distinction from the city of 
Lansing. It is my hope that the newly renamed city hall will serve as a 
lasting testament to your brand of public service to the people of the 
city of Lansing and the great State of Michigan.

                          ____________________



