

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 88 (Monday, May 22, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 88 (Monday, May 22, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4394]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




    RECOGNITION OF FALLEN OFFICERS JASON GARNER AND RASCHEL JOHNSON

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
California (Mr. Denham) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. DENHAM. Mr. Speaker, today I sadly rise to honor two fallen 
officers from my community, Stanislaus County Sheriff's Deputy Jason 
Garner, and Community Service Officer Raschel Johnson.
  Deputy Garner and Officer Johnson tragically left this Earth on 
Saturday, May 13, 2017, as a result of a vehicular collision while en 
route to a reported residential burglary in Modesto. Both were 
committed public servants whose watches ended all too soon.
  Deputy Garner served with the Stanislaus County Sheriff's Department 
for 9\1/2\ years in the operations division and 1 year 3 months in the 
adult detention division. He was well-liked on both sides of the 
department. During his time in service to our community, he was 
recognized for a wide range of accomplishments, including assisting a 
mother in locating her daughter at Oakdale Reservoir, working with 
junior high students from Big Valley Christian School to conduct a 
successful graffiti wipeout for our community, and assisting the 
probation department and their firearms instructors with radio training 
to improve their communication skills with the dispatch center.
  Officer Johnson was a 15-year veteran of Stanislaus County Sheriff's 
Department who was known for going above and beyond. During her time 
with the department, she was recognized for her contributions to her 
team as well as our community, which included receiving the Sheriff's 
Award for Excellence for coordinating the model of the Patterson Police 
Services substation. She also helped to develop a program to more 
effectively dispatch community service officers and deputies, and she 
assisted with the 2006 homicide investigation of California Highway 
Patrol Officer Earl Scott.
  Both Deputy Garner and Officer Johnson leave behind an entire 
community who grieve their loss. Their bravery and committed service 
will never be forgotten.
  Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me in honoring the lives of 
Stanislaus County Sheriff's Deputy Jason Garner and Community Service 
Officer Raschel Johnson. My deepest gratitude and sympathies go out to 
their families and our law enforcement community as they forge ahead 
without their loved ones. May God bless and keep them always.

                          ____________________



