

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 111 (Wednesday, June 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 111 (Wednesday, June 28, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H5242]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





          COMMENDING THE CITY OF ALEXANDRIA'S FIRST RESPONDERS

  (Mr. BEYER asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.)
  Mr. BEYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to commend the city of 
Alexandria's first responders, the first to the scene of the shooting 
at Eugene Simpson Stadium Park in my district in Alexandria, Virginia.
  Two weeks ago today, Wednesday, June 14, at 7 a.m., a man fired 
scores of shots at the Members of Congress who were practicing for the 
annual Congressional Baseball Game. The shooting wounded U.S. 
Representative and House Majority Whip Steve Scalise, Capitol Police 
Officers David Bailey and Crystal Griner, congressional staffer Zack 
Barth, and former congressional staffer Matt Mika.
  The timely response of Alexandria's first responders almost certainly 
saved lives. Alexandria Police Officers Nicole Battaglia, Alexander 
Jensen, and Kevin Jobe arrived within minutes of the 9/11 call. Officer 
Battaglia came under fire upon arriving at the scene and immediately 
engaged the shooter. Her actions diverted the shooter's attention, 
allowing the other responding officers to neutralize him.
  Medical care provided by the members of the Alexandria Fire 
Department, including Fiona Apple and Richard Krimmer, ensured these 
senseless acts of violence did not become a multiple-fatality event.
  I am honored to commend these valiant individuals for their selfless 
service. I thank them for saving the lives of the victims and potential 
victims of this evil, mindless gun violence, and also for their daily 
positive impact on the extraordinary community of Del Ray and the 
exceptional city of Alexandria.

                          ____________________



