

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 77 (Thursday, May 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 77 (Thursday, May 4, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2770-S2771]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  WASTE MANAGEMENT NATIONAL CAREER DAY

  Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I would like to recognize Thursday, May 4, 
as Waste Management National Career Day and share with you the 
importance of hiring and promoting women in nontraditional female 
positions as drivers and technicians. I believe it is important that we 
support and encourage women to pursue these career opportunities that 
have been historically populated by men.
  Women comprise only 2 percent of current drivers and technicians. 
Waste Management National Career Day will provide an opportunity to 
share stories of women who have held these positions successfully and 
moved up into management.

[[Page S2771]]

  I support this initiative because I believe, as we continue to 
highlight economic opportunities for women, it is imperative that the 
private sector develop platforms where women can learn about careers 
they normally would not consider. This national career day is an 
excellent example of waste management being proactive in creating ways 
to increase the number of women in these types of careers across the 
country.
  Without a doubt, investment in women in nontraditional careers brings 
about significant returns. Women contribute every day to our skillful, 
effective, and talented workforce. I commend waste management for 
building a platform where you can increase hiring of females as 
drivers, technician, frontline management, and give them opportunity 
for advancement.

                          ____________________



