

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 100 (Tuesday, June 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 100 (Tuesday, June 13, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4901]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




 CONTINUATION OF THE NATIONAL EMERGENCY WITH RESPECT TO THE GOVERNMENT 
 OF BELARUS--MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC. 
                              NO. 115-47)

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Francis Rooney of Florida) laid before 
the House the following message from the President of the United 
States; which was read and, together with the accompanying papers, 
referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and ordered to be printed:
To the Congress of the United States:
  Section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) 
provides for the automatic termination of a national emergency unless, 
within 90 days of the anniversary date of its declaration, the 
President publishes in the Federal Register and transmits to the 
Congress a notice stating that the emergency is to continue in effect 
beyond the anniversary date. In accordance with that provision, I have 
sent to the Federal Register for publication the enclosed notice 
stating that the national emergency with respect to the actions and 
policies of certain members of the Government of Belarus and other 
persons to undermine democratic processes or institutions of Belarus 
that was declared in Executive Order 13405 of June 16, 2006, is to 
continue in effect beyond June 16, 2017.
  The actions and policies of certain members of the Government of 
Belarus and other persons to undermine democratic processes or 
institutions of Belarus, to commit human rights abuses related to 
political repression, and to engage in public corruption continue to 
pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and 
foreign policy of the United States. For this reason, I have determined 
that it is necessary to continue the national emergency declared in 
Executive Order 13405 with respect to Belarus.
                                                     Donald J. Trump.  
The White House, June 13, 2017.

                          ____________________



