

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 75 (Tuesday, May 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 75 (Tuesday, May 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2678-S2679]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                         TRIBUTE TO DAVID HOLT

 Mr. KING. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize David Holt, 
who has been a town manager in Maine since 1976, serving four 
communities.
  In 1999, David received the Linc Stackpole Manager of the Year Award, 
chosen by his peers in the Maine Town and City Managers Association in 
recognition of his exemplary leadership qualities, professional ethics, 
and commitment to public service. Over the past 40 years, David has 
been a mentor, trusted adviser, and role model to many younger 
managers.
  David was raised in rural western Maine, the son of a farmer. This 
upbringing instilled a strong work ethic in him at a young age and an 
appreciation for preserving the natural environment, as well as empathy 
for the hard-working people of Maine. He has a strong intellect, a keen 
sense of humor, and is gifted writer, chronicling his life and times in 
his book of autobiographical short stories ``Man about Town.''
  He got involved in local government early by being elected as the 
youngest member of the board of selectmen in his hometown of Greenwood 
at the age of 18. His interest in public service was kindled by this 
experience, and he later attended the University of Maine where he 
received a degree in public management.
  David served as the first town manager of the town of Princeton. 
While

[[Page S2679]]

there, he developed an airport by receiving grants to move the historic 
train station to be reused as a terminal building. These efforts 
resulted in the establishment of regular air service with a local 
carrier, promoting economic development and easy access to the area by 
sportsmen. He enlisted the Maine National Guard to do their summer 
training session in Princeton, and with the work of hundreds of 
military personnel with heavy equipment, a new mile-long major access 
road to the airport from Route 1 was completed in just 2 weeks.
  While serving in the town of Dexter, he prepared successful 
applications to the Community Development Block Grant Program that 
resulted in the renovation of the entire downtown area by adding new 
decorative streetlights, improved sidewalks, better drainage, and 
related road work. This effort revitalized the downtown area and 
spurred private investment in the Main Street buildings.
  In the town of Standish, he worked extensively on the growth 
management plan, which established a roadmap for future community 
development.
  In the town of Norway, where he has served for the past 28 years, 
David has worked diligently to ensure that the town stays in sound 
financial condition, as well as keeping the Main Street economically 
and culturally vibrant. He instituted a sidewalk building program that 
has resulted in Norway becoming one of Maine's most walkable 
communities. Perhaps his crowning achievements were the successful 
grant application and efforts to save the town's historic opera house. 
David will be long remembered in all the towns he has served for his 
commitment to community betterment and his forward-thinking positive 
management style.

                          ____________________



