

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 118 (Thursday, July 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 118 (Thursday, July 13, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3990]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  TRIBUTE TO AFGHANISTAN ROBOTICS TEAM

  Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, I am very pleased that Afghanistan's 
robotics team will be coming to Washington to compete with students 
from nearly 150 countries in the FIRST Global Challenge, which begins 
on Sunday, July 16. I extend a warm welcome to these brilliant young 
minds, Lida Azizi, Somayeh Faruqi, Faramarz Najafi, Rodaba Noori, 
Fatemah Qaderyan, Kawsar Roshan, and Alireza Mahraban. Of course, we 
extend a warm welcome to the team's creation, a robot that can sort 
balls, recognize blue and orange, and move objects to their proper 
places. People across Afghanistan are extremely proud of the robotics 
team's achievements. In recent days, Americans have become acquainted 
with the many challenges they have overcome in order to excel in their 
studies and come to the U.S., and we too, are very proud of them.
  I have been impressed to learn about their passion for education and 
determination to pursue STEM studies. This team's indomitable spirit is 
a testament to what can be achieved through hard work, creativity, and 
perseverance. Each member of the Afghan robotics team has become a 
powerful symbol for young women across the globe, especially for those 
in developing regions who face barriers to education and opportunity.
  The FIRST Robotics Competition should also be recognized for its 
ability to bring young people together in the name of science, 
mathematics, and technology. It is the creation of Granite Stater Dean 
Kamen, and had its beginnings in a New Hampshire high school gym a 
quarter century ago. Today, FIRST programs reach more than 400,000 
young people across the world every year. Beginning this weekend in 
Washington, the FIRST Global Challenge will bring some of the best and 
brightest young people from around the world to compete, to demonstrate 
teamwork, and to forge new friendships.
  It gives me great joy to know that Lida, Somayeh, Faramarz, Rodaba, 
Fatemah, Kawsar, and Alireze will be among them. The FIRST Global 
Challenge is a competition, and only one team will leave Washington 
with top honors, but the seven young women representing Afghanistan are 
already winners. They have had the courage to overcome barriers and the 
audacity to compete with some of the most talented young people from 
across the globe. I wish these young women great success. I thank them 
for inspiring us with their fierce determination to achieve.

                          ____________________



