

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 86 (Thursday, May 18, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 86 (Thursday, May 18, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4342]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




          CITIZENSHIP FOR SURVIVORS OF FALLEN FIRST RESPONDERS

  (Mr. BACON asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.)
  Mr. BACON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to ask my colleagues to join me 
in support of H.R. 1970, the Kerrie Orozco Act. This coming Saturday is 
the 2-year anniversary of the death of the Omaha Police Officer Kerrie 
Orozco, who was killed while serving a warrant to a convicted felon and 
known gang member. May 20, 2015, will forever be a somber day in the 
Omaha metro area.
  Every day all across the country, first responders put their lives on 
the line to protect citizens. When Officer Orozco was killed, her 
husband, Hector, was going through the process to gain U.S. 
citizenship, and her death put a halt to it. He has an enormous 
responsibility as a single parent, and we owe it to Kerrie to ensure 
that her family is provided the same protections they would have had if 
this unfortunate situation had not occurred.
  H.R. 1970 would give many of our first responders peace of mind to 
know that, even in death, their surviving loved ones can continue the 
immigration process. This legislation would amend the Immigration and 
Nationality Act to allow for the surviving family members of a fallen 
U.S. citizen first responder to be naturalized upon compliance with all 
requirements.
  Current law allows for surviving family members of the U.S. military 
killed in service of our Nation to continue with their citizenship 
application. H.R. 1970 will simply extend that privilege to first 
responders. We owe it to Officer Orozco and other fallen first 
responders to honor their memory by passing H.R. 1970.
  I look forward to working with both Democrats and Republicans in 
Congress to give our first responders the peace of mind they deserve as 
they head out the door each day to serve our communities.

                          ____________________



