

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 27 (Monday, February 12, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 27 (Monday, February 12, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S855-S856]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              IMMIGRATION

  Mr. McCONNELL. Now on another matter, Mr. President, as I have 
repeatedly stated, now that there is an agreement on long-term 
government funding, the Senate will proceed to a fair debate over the 
DACA issue, border security, and other matters pertaining to the 
subject of immigration. This process begins in just a few hours. We 
will vote to proceed to an unrelated, neutral House-passed bill that 
will serve as the vehicle for any legislation that succeeds here in the 
Senate. As I have repeated many times, I will ensure that a fair 
amendment process gives Senators the opportunity to submit proposals 
for consideration and votes. I hope this body can seize this 
opportunity and deliver real progress toward securing our border, 
reforming aspects of our immigration policy, and achieving a resolution 
for individuals who were brought to our country illegally when they 
were young.
  The American people have heard no shortage of rhetoric on this issue. 
They have heard many of my colleagues across the aisle insist that this 
issue requires swift action. Now is the time to back up this talk with 
the hard work of finding a workable solution. That means finding an 
agreement which can pass the Senate, pass the

[[Page S856]]

House, and which the President will sign--not just making a point.
  A number of my colleagues--Senators Grassley, Cornyn, Tillis, Perdue, 
Lankford, Cotton, and Ernst--will introduce a balanced proposal that 
tries to meet these requirements. I support the President's proposal 
and my colleagues' legislation to implement it.
  The Secure and Succeed Act is fair and addresses both sides' most 
pressing concerns, conforming to the conditions the President has put 
forward. It offers a compassionate resolution for 1.8 million illegal 
immigrants who were brought to the United States as children. In 
exchange, this solution delivers funding for President Trump's promise 
to fully secure the border, reforms our approach to extended family 
chain migration, and reallocates our arbitrary visa lottery into a more 
sensible, merit-based system.
  This legislation is a fair compromise that addresses the stated 
priorities of all sides. It is our best chance of producing a solution 
that can actually resolve these matters, which requires that a bill 
pass the Senate, pass the House, and earn the President's signature. It 
has my support.
  The time for political posturing is behind us. Now we have an 
opportunity to resolve these issues. I hope we make the most of it.

                          ____________________



