

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 25 (Thursday, February 8, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 25 (Thursday, February 8, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S839]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       TRIBUTE TO PAUL J. REEDER

 Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this week I have the distinct honor 
of recognizing Paul J. Reeder of Billings, MT. Paul has a fantastic 
history of service to Montanans and to the Billings community. He has 
served in pastoral ministry and care for decades and has dedicated 
himself to the well-being of community members.
  Paul pastored churches across Montana prior to becoming the director 
of the Friendship House, from which he retired after 22 years of 
service in 1996. Paul also began his chaplain ministry in 1978 and has 
faithfully served the Billings Police Department as chaplain for the 
past 40 years. His unwavering commitment to encouraging officers is 
evident in all his actions as he attends morning briefings, learns each 
officer by name, sends birthday cards, bakes Christmas cookies, and 
hosts an annual breakfast for the officers. Never missing an 
opportunity to make officers feel known, Paul keeps a current photo 
display of officers updated at the department.
  In his spare time, Paul has published booklets on the Underground 
Railroad, Buffalo Soldiers, and other various historical figures. He 
also repairs Bibles, hymnals, and other books for churches, friends, 
libraries, schools, and civic organizations. At 87 years old, Paul 
still preaches one Sunday a month at All Nations Church. Paul's 
devotion and faithful attendance has encouraged officers and chaplains 
alike for the past 40 years, and his encouragement and commitment will 
be remembered as he retires this year. Thank you, Paul, for all your 
service.

                          ____________________



