

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 193 (Tuesday, November 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 193 (Tuesday, November 28, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9438]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




 REAUTHORIZING FISH RECOVERY IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAMS IN UPPER COLORADO 
                       AND SAN JUAN RIVER BASINS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Utah 
(Mr. Curtis) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. CURTIS. Mr. Speaker, most of us know how important water is in 
our States and the impact it plays in growth. It is directly tied to 
economic development and the health and beauty of the places we live.
  Today, in accordance with commitments I have made to build improved 
quality of life in the rural areas of my district, I am introducing 
bipartisan legislation that will reauthorize the Bureau of Reclamation 
to provide cost sharing for the endangered fish recovery implementation 
programs in the Upper Colorado and San Juan River basins.
  This bill is important because the successful recovery of these 
endangered species paves the way for critical projects in these 
waterways, projects that will facilitate water for agriculture, 
economic development, and other important uses not just in the rural 
areas of Utah's Third Congressional District, but in Colorado, Wyoming, 
Arizona, and New Mexico as well.
  This bill reauthorizes a program that has become a national model for 
addressing the demands for water development to support growing Western 
communities. It has been run with accountability and solid results 
since 2012. Constituents will be pleased that the revenue for this 
project comes not from tax dollars but, rather, from fees collected by 
the projects from water users within the area.
  The bill also strikes an important balance between conservation, 
recreation, and ensuring that we have access to public lands and 
natural resources.
  The programs support millions of people who depend on the river's 
water to grow food, generate electricity, and serve the needs of cities 
and towns.
  To quote Utah's Governor, Gary Herbert: ``The success of the . . . 
program is vital for . . . our State's continued progress and providing 
for the needs of the citizens of Utah.''
  I would like to express my appreciation to Congressman Rob Bishop and 
the members of the Natural Resources Committee, who have done the heavy 
lifting on this bill.
  Mr. Speaker, I hope my colleagues in the House and the Senate will 
support this very important bill.

                          ____________________



