

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 170 (Monday, October 23, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 170 (Monday, October 23, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H8064-H8065]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




           EAGLE SCOUT COMMUNITY SERVICE PROJECT OF THE YEAR

  (Ms. TENNEY asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend her remarks.)
  Ms. TENNEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the Boy Scouts of 
America Leatherstocking Council. For more than 100 years the Boy Scouts 
of

[[Page H8065]]

America have molded young boys into men of character, compassion, and 
commitment.
  Last week, I had the honor of attending their annual leadership 
dinner, where four of our local Eagle Scouts--Nathaniel Degear of 
DeRuyter, Devyn Guy of Middleburgh, Paul White of Clinton, and Gannon 
Frisbee of Downsville--were honored as finalists for the Eagle Project 
of the Year. The four finalists represented more than 120 new Eagle 
Scouts, who gave over 2,500 hours in service to our community.
  It was an honor to finally present Gannon Frisbee with the Eagle 
Scout Community Service Project of the Year Award. Gannon began his 
project intending to upgrade lighting and wall decor at a local 
American Legion.
  Soon after beginning his project, Gannon realized the building's 
structural integrity was at risk. Gannon worked tirelessly to repair 
the walls and the floor of the American Legion. His project was 
critical in ensuring that the American Legion was able to return to 
normal operations.

  These young men offer us a glimpse into the Boy Scouts' outstanding 
tradition of service and commitment to community. They are truly a 
testament to the strength and the potential of America's next 
generation of leaders.

                          ____________________



