

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 200 (Thursday, December 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 200 (Thursday, December 7, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9721]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       TAX-AND-SPEND REPUBLICANS

  (Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California asked and was given permission to 
address the House for 1 minute.)
  Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California. Mr. Speaker, I just heard a Member 
from the opposite side of the aisle come to the floor to talk about 
what we are talking about. I am only talking about tax-and-spend 
Republicans.
  Can you believe the Republicans who have been singing the song of 
conservatism for years? They called us ``tax-and-spend liberals.'' And 
they talk about the deficit. They even run signs talking about how much 
it is costing the American public every minute. But guess what. They 
are creating a deficit of $1.5 trillion in this tax scam that they are 
passing.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise to express my outrage over this harmful tax scam 
legislation passed by tax-and-spend Republicans. That is what I am 
saying: tax-and-spend Republicans.
  Both the House and Senate bills explode the deficit by over $1 
trillion and raise taxes on the middle class in order to spend on tax 
cuts for the wealthy. After 10 years, those making $75,000 or less 
would see a tax increase, while those making $1 million or more would 
see their taxes decrease.
  Under the House bill, tens of millions of working families nationwide 
would experience a tax increase by 2027.
  I hope that the tax-and-spend Republicans on the other side of the 
aisle will come to their senses before sending a final bill to the 
President's desk.
  Tax-and-spend Republicans: over a $1 trillion deficit. Can you 
believe it?

                          ____________________



