

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 160 (Thursday, October 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 160 (Thursday, October 5, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6372-S6373]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I have 8 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


           COMMITTEE ON AGRICULTURE, NUTRITION, AND FORESTRY

  The Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, October 5, 2017, 
at 9:30 a.m., in room SR-328A to hold a hearing on the following 
nominations: Gregory Ibach, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for 
Marketing and Regulator Programs; William Northey, to be Under 
Secretary of Agriculture for Farm and Foreign Agriculture Services.


               COMMITTEE ON ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS

  The Committee on Environment and Public Works is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Thursday, October 5, 2017, at 9:30 
a.m., in room SD-406 to hold a hearing on the nomination of Paul 
Trombino III, to be Administrator of the Federal Highway 
Administration.


                          COMMITTEE ON FINANCE

  The Committee on Finance is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Thursday, October 5, 2017, at 10 a.m., in room SD-215 to 
hold a hearing on nominations.


                     COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, October 5, 2017, at 9:30 a.m., to 
hold a business meeting.


                     COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, October 5, 2017, at 2:30 p.m., to 
hold a hearing on nominations.


          COMMITTEE ON HEALTH, EDUCATION, LABOR, AND PENSIONS

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, October 5, 2017, 
at 10 a.m., in room SD-430 to hold a hearing entitled ``The Federal 
Response to the Opioid Crisis.''


                       COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, October 5, 2017, at 10 a.m., in room 
SD-226 to hold an executive business meeting.


                    SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE

  The Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday,

[[Page S6373]]

October 5, 2017, at 2 p.m., in room SH-219 to hold a closed hearing.

                          ____________________



