

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 177 (Wednesday, November 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 177 (Wednesday, November 1, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6967]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         TRIBUTE TO SUSAN OLSON

  Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize a member of my 
staff who has been in public service on Capitol Hill for 30 years. 
Susan Olson is my deputy chief of staff and general counsel. She has 
served Members of Congress, the Senate, and congressional committees 
for decades and is a well-known, beloved public servant around the 
Hill.
  Susan joined my staff when I came to the Senate in 2011, but she 
already had a long track record of distinguished service and respect 
from her peers. I got to know Susan when she served as secretary of the 
House NATO Parliamentary Assembly Delegation, of which I was a member 
during my years in the House of Representatives. Susan's knowledge, 
determination, and warm personality helped her earn the respect and 
admiration of Members and staff alike. She also served as a valued 
staff member on the House Ethics Committee where she was a legal 
counsel from 2004 to 2011.
  Prior to working on the Ethics Committee, Susan served in the office 
of former Congressman Doug Bereuter of Nebraska for 17 years as 
legislative assistant, legislative director, and chief of staff. During 
her tenure with Congressman Bereuter, she also served as the secretary 
of the House Delegation to the British American Parliamentary Group 
from 1998 to 2000.
  Susan's time on my staff has been marked by her wealth of knowledge 
and expertise on so many things. She is a trusted adviser, but more 
importantly, a dear friend to me and to everyone on my staff in 
Washington and Arkansas. We love Susan very much and appreciate all her 
hard work. She takes a personal interest in everyone she meets, from 
the many interns who cycle in and out of my office, to those on my 
staff and the countless men and women she has worked with over the 
years during her time on the Hill.
  We are so happy for and proud of Susan for reaching this milestone. I 
congratulate her for the many years of service she has rendered to the 
U.S. Congress and to our country.

                          ____________________



