

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 195 (Thursday, November 30, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 195 (Thursday, November 30, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7650]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, I have 4 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


                      Committee on Armed Services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, November 30, 2017, at 10 a.m. to 
conduct a hearing.


                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, November 30, 2017, at 10 a.m. to 
conduct a hearing on the following nominations: M. Lee McClenny, of 
Washington, to be Ambassador to the Republic of Paraguay, Carlos 
Trujillo, of Florida, to be Permanent Representative to the 
Organization of American States, with the rank of Ambassador, and 
Kenneth J. Braithwaite, of Pennsylvania, to be Ambassador to the 
Kingdom of Norway, all of the Department of State, and Brock D. 
Bierman, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Administrator of the United 
States Agency for International Development.


          Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, November 30, 
2017, at 10 a.m. in room SD-430 to conduct a hearing.


                    Select Committee on Intelligence

  The Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, November 30, 2017, at 2 p.m., in 
room SH-219 to hold a closed hearing.

                          ____________________



