

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 206 (Monday, December 18, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 206 (Monday, December 18, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S8071]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




          STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

      By Mr. DAINES (for himself and Mr. Bennet):
  S. 2243. A bill to amend the Food Security Act of 1985 to authorize 
funding for the voluntary public access and habitat incentive program; 
to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
  Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, as a fifth generation Montanan and avid 
outdoorsman, I know how important public use of our public lands is to 
Montanans. Many Montanans, including myself, have also had great 
experiences hunting, fishing, or hiking on approved private lands as 
well. Expanding access for sportsmen, improving habitat, and upholding 
property rights are all priorities of mine, which is why I am 
introducing the Voluntary Public Access Improvement Act. This bill 
would reauthorize the Voluntary Public Access-Habitat Improvement 
Program, a voluntary state-led program that expands public access by 
incentivizing private landowners to allow the public on their property 
for hunting, fishing, and other outdoor recreational activities while 
protecting their private property rights. In Montana alone, over 70,000 
acres of private lands have been voluntarily opened up for hunting and 
increased public access, and the Voluntary Public Access Improvement 
Act would help build on that success.
  Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be 
printed in the Record.
  There being no objection, the text of the bill was ordered to be 
printed in the Record, as follows:

                                S. 2243

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Voluntary Public Access 
     Improvement Act of 2017''.

     SEC. 2. VOLUNTARY PUBLIC ACCESS AND HABITAT INCENTIVE 
                   PROGRAM.

       Section 1240R(f)(1) of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 
     U.S.C. 3839bb-5(f)(1)) is amended--
       (1) by striking ``practicable, $50,000,000'' and inserting 
     the following: ``practicable--
       ``(A) $50,000,000'';
       (2) in subparagraph (A) (as so designated), by striking 
     ``2012 and $40,000,000'' and inserting the following: ``2012;
       ``(B) $40,000,000''; and
       (3) in subparagraph (B) (as so designated), by striking the 
     period at the end and inserting the following: ``; and
       ``(C) $150,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2019 
     through 2023.''.
                                 ______
                                 
      By Ms. COLLINS (for herself and Ms. Duckworth):
  S. 2244. A bill to create opportunities for women in the aviation 
industry; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
  Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I rise to join my colleague from 
Illinois, Senator Duckworth, in introducing the Promoting Women in the 
Aviation Workforce Act of 2017. Our bill seeks to encourage and support 
women pursuing careers in the field of aviation.
  As Chairman of the Senate Transportation Appropriations Subcommittee, 
I believe it is important to help women achieve their professional 
aspirations across all transportation sectors. Although women make up 
over 50 percent of our Nation's workforce, they are significantly 
underrepresented in the aviation industry, representing only two 
percent of airline mechanics, four percent of flight engineers, five 
percent of repairmen, six percent of pilots, 18 percent of flight 
dispatchers, and 26 percent of air traffic controllers.
  Our bill expresses the sense of Congress that the aviation industry 
should explore the possibility of offering opportunities, such as pilot 
training, STEM education, and mentorship programs, which would help to 
encourage women to pursue aviation careers from a young age.
  In addition, our bill would direct the Federal Aviation 
Administration (FAA) to create and manage a Women in Aviation Advisory 
Board to hold the industry accountable for providing education, 
training, mentorship, outreach, and recruitment programs that are aimed 
at women.
  Finally, in another effort to improve the availability and quality of 
educational opportunities for women pursuing careers in aviation, this 
legislation would require that the FAA submit a report to Congress on 
current trends concerning women in aviation and the potential for 
expanding related programming.
  Mr. President, I believe this bill will have a positive impact on the 
workforce supporting one of our country's leading industries. I want to 
thank Senator Duckworth for partnering with me on this effort, and urge 
my colleagues to support this legislation.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The majority leader.

                          ____________________



