

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 195 (Thursday, November 30, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 195 (Thursday, November 30, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7557-S7558]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                      REMEMBERING G. THOMAS EISELE

 Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, today I wish to pay tribute to 
former U.S. District Judge G. Thomas Eisele who passed away on Sunday, 
November 26, at the age of 94.
  Judge Eisele was a native of Hot Springs, AR. He served as a private 
in the U.S. Army during World War II and then went on to attend Harvard 
Law School. Eisele then came back to Arkansas to practice law in Hot 
Springs and Little Rock.
  When Winthrop Rockefeller ran for Governor in 1966, Eisele became a 
legal adviser to his campaign and then to Governor Rockefeller during 
his administration. Rockefeller recommended to President Richard Nixon 
that Eisele be appointed to the U.S. District Court for the Eastern 
District of Arkansas. Eisele was appointed to the position in 1970 and 
served on the bench for 41 years, including as chief judge from 1975 to 
1991.
  Judge Eisele was widely respected by his legal peers and was known by 
lawyers who argued cases before him for his thoughtful approach in the 
courtroom. An intelligent, passionate, humorous, and reverent man, 
Judge Eisele left a significant judicial legacy when he retired from 
the court in 2011.
  His colleagues, former law clerks, and others he impacted all fondly 
reflect on and remember his professionalism, integrity, wisdom, and 
demeanor. To understand how highly regarded he was, we need look no 
further than the establishment of the G. Thomas Eisele Endowment for 
the Study of the History of the United States Federal Courts in 
Arkansas at the University of Arkansas at Little Rock.
  I am grateful for the influence that Judge Eisele had on our State, 
country, and judicial system during his extraordinary career. I also 
want to acknowledge and thank him for his service in the military as 
part of America's Greatest Generation. He will certainly be missed, but 
I hope his loved ones take comfort in his incredible legacy and life 
well-lived.

[[Page S7558]]

  

                          ____________________



