

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 144 (Thursday, September 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 144 (Thursday, September 7, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H7115-H7125]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




     DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, ENVIRONMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES 
                        APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2018

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to House Resolution 500 and rule 
XVIII, the Chair declares the House in the Committee of the Whole House 
on the state of the Union for the further consideration of the bill, 
H.R. 3354.
  Will the gentleman from Alabama (Mr. Palmer) kindly take the chair.

                              {time}  1424


                     In the Committee of the Whole

  Accordingly, the House resolved itself into the Committee of the 
Whole House on the state of the Union for the further consideration of 
the bill (H.R. 3354) making appropriations for the Department of the 
Interior, environment, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2018, and for other purposes, with Mr. Palmer in the 
chair.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The Acting CHAIR. When the Committee of the Whole rose earlier today, 
amendment No. 88 printed in part B of House Report 115-295, as 
modified, offered by the gentleman from Iowa (Mr. King) had been 
disposed of.


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, proceedings 
will now resume on those amendments printed in part B of House Report 
115-295 on which further proceedings were postponed, in the following 
order:
  Amendment No. 71 by Mr. Castro of Texas.
  Amendment No. 74 by Ms. Roybal-Allard of California.
  Amendment No. 75 by Mr. Castro of Texas.
  Amendment No. 76 by Mr. Correa of California.
  Amendment No. 77 by Mr. Hunter of California.
  Amendment No. 80, as modified, by Mr. King of Iowa.
  Amendment No. 81 by Mr. Castro of Texas.
  Amendment No. 84 by Ms. Jayapal of Washington.
  The Chair will reduce to 2 minutes the minimum time for any 
electronic vote in this series.


            Amendment No. 71 Offered by Mr. Castro of Texas

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Texas (Mr. 
Castro) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which the 
noes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 205, 
noes 207, not voting 21, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 459]

                               AYES--205

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Barragan
     Barton
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bucshon
     Burgess
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Coffman
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costello (PA)
     Courtney
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Dunn
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Farenthold
     Fitzpatrick
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Herrera Beutler
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Kaptur
     Katko
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Lance
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lewis (MN)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     MacArthur
     Maloney, Sean
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meehan
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Poe (TX)
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Reed
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Upton
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Woodall
     Yarmuth

                               NOES--207

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Budd
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Denham
     Dent
     DesJarlais
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Emmer
     Estes (KS)
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Graves (MO)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jones
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Latta
     Long
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Norman
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Poliquin
     Ratcliffe
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Roskam
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tiberi
     Tipton
     Trott
     Turner
     Valadao
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                             NOT VOTING--21

     Bridenstine
     Costa
     Crist
     Cummings
     Curbelo (FL)
     DeGette
     DeSantis
     Deutch
     Diaz-Balart
     Garrett
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Meadows
     Pelosi
     Posey
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Tsongas
     Wagner
     Wasserman Schultz
     Webster (FL)


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1429

  So the amendment was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


             Amendment No. 74 Offered by Ms. Roybal-Allard

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from 
California (Ms. Roybal-Allard) on which further proceedings were 
postponed and on which the noes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.

[[Page H7116]]

  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 170, 
noes 241, not voting 22, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 460]

                               AYES--170

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Correa
     Courtney
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Kaptur
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Norcross
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Perlmutter
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruppersberger
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth
     Young (AK)

                               NOES--241

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bera
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Bustos
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Castor (FL)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Cooper
     Costello (PA)
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Denham
     Dent
     DesJarlais
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Graves (MO)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Higgins (NY)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jones
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Katko
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Long
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     Lynch
     MacArthur
     Maloney, Sean
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meehan
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Norman
     Nunes
     O'Halleran
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Roskam
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Ruiz
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Sinema
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Suozzi
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tiberi
     Tipton
     Trott
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                             NOT VOTING--22

     Bridenstine
     Costa
     Crist
     Cummings
     Curbelo (FL)
     DeGette
     DeSantis
     Deutch
     Diaz-Balart
     Garrett
     Meadows
     Nolan
     Pelosi
     Posey
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Rush
     Scalise
     Tsongas
     Wagner
     Wasserman Schultz
     Webster (FL)


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1432

  So the amendment was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


            Amendment No. 75 Offered by Mr. Castro of Texas

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Texas (Mr. 
Castro) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which the 
noes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 203, 
noes 211, not voting 19, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 461]

                               AYES--203

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Barragan
     Barton
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Coffman
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costello (PA)
     Courtney
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Ferguson
     Fitzpatrick
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Herrera Beutler
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Kaptur
     Katko
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Lance
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     MacArthur
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meehan
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     Norman
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Poe (TX)
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Reed
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Schweikert
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Woodall
     Yarmuth

                               NOES--211

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer

[[Page H7117]]


     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Denham
     Dent
     DesJarlais
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Graves (MO)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jones
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     Long
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Peterson
     Pittenger
     Poliquin
     Ratcliffe
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Roskam
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tiberi
     Tipton
     Trott
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                             NOT VOTING--19

     Bridenstine
     Costa
     Crist
     Cummings
     Curbelo (FL)
     DeGette
     DeSantis
     Deutch
     Diaz-Balart
     Garrett
     Meadows
     Posey
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Tsongas
     Wagner
     Wasserman Schultz
     Webster (FL)


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1437

  So the amendment was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


                          PERSONAL EXPLANATION

  Mr. WEBSTER of Florida. Mr. Chair, due to the impending landfall of 
Hurricane Irma in Florida, I departed Washington, D.C. to be in my 
district during this natural disaster.
  Had I been present, I would have voted:
  ``Yea'' on rollcall No. 457.
  ``Yea'' on rollcall No. 458.
  ``Nay'' on rollcall No. 459.
  ``Nay'' on rollcall No. 460.
  ``Nay'' on rollcall No. 461.


                 Amendment No. 76 Offered by Mr. Correa

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from California 
(Mr. Correa) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which 
the noes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 182, 
noes 229, not voting 22, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 462]

                               AYES--182

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Courtney
     Crowley
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Kaptur
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth

                               NOES--229

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Costello (PA)
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Cuellar
     Culberson
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Denham
     Dent
     DesJarlais
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Graves (MO)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jones
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Katko
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     LoBiondo
     Long
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     Lynch
     MacArthur
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McNerney
     McSally
     Meehan
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Norman
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Roskam
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tiberi
     Tipton
     Trott
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Vela
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                             NOT VOTING--22

     Brat
     Bridenstine
     Costa
     Crist
     Cummings
     Curbelo (FL)
     DeGette
     DeSantis
     Deutch
     Diaz-Balart
     Garrett
     Hensarling
     Meadows
     Posey
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Shuster
     Tsongas
     Wagner
     Wasserman Schultz
     Webster (FL)


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1441

  So the amendment was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


                 Amendment No. 77 Offered by Mr. Hunter

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from California 
(Mr. Hunter) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which 
the ayes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.

[[Page H7118]]

  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 245, 
noes 168, not voting 20, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 463]

                               AYES--245

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Aguilar
     Allen
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bera
     Bergman
     Beyer
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Brooks (IN)
     Brownley (CA)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Clarke (NY)
     Coffman
     Cohen
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Connolly
     Cook
     Correa
     Costello (PA)
     Courtney
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Davis, Rodney
     DelBene
     Denham
     Dent
     DesJarlais
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Engel
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gabbard
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Gallego
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Gosar
     Gottheimer
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Graves (MO)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jeffries
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jones
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Katko
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     Kind
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     LoBiondo
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     MacArthur
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McEachin
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McNerney
     McSally
     Meehan
     Meeks
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (FL)
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Norman
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Payne
     Pearce
     Perlmutter
     Perry
     Peters
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Richmond
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Roskam
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Sherman
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Sinema
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smith (WA)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Suozzi
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tiberi
     Tipton
     Trott
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                               NOES--168

     Adams
     Amash
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brooks (AL)
     Brown (MD)
     Budd
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Davidson
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Garamendi
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Goodlatte
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hollingsworth
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Kaptur
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Labrador
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Long
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McGovern
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Rice (NY)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rooney, Francis
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Rutherford
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Soto
     Speier
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth

                             NOT VOTING--20

     Bridenstine
     Costa
     Crist
     Cummings
     Curbelo (FL)
     DeGette
     DeSantis
     Deutch
     Diaz-Balart
     Garrett
     Meadows
     Pelosi
     Posey
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Tsongas
     Wagner
     Wasserman Schultz
     Webster (FL)


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1446

  Mr. LAWSON of Florida changed his vote from ``aye'' to ``no.''
  Mr. FLEISCHMANN changed his vote from ``no'' to ``aye.''
  So the amendment was agreed to.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


       Amendment No. 80, as Modified, Offered by Mr. King of Iowa

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment, as modified, offered by the gentleman 
from Iowa (Mr. King) on which further proceedings were postponed and on 
which the ayes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 173, 
noes 240, not voting 20, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 464]

                               AYES--173

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Davidson
     Dent
     DesJarlais
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Ferguson
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Graves (MO)
     Griffith
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jones
     Jordan
     Kelly (MS)
     King (IA)
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Latta
     Long
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     Marchant
     Marshall
     Massie
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Noem
     Norman
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Ratcliffe
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stewart
     Taylor
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tipton
     Trott
     Walberg
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (IA)

                               NOES--240

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Amodei
     Barletta
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Bost
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bucshon
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cook
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costello (PA)
     Courtney
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     Davis, Rodney
     DeFazio
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     Denham
     DeSaulnier
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Donovan

[[Page H7119]]


     Doyle, Michael F.
     Duffy
     Ellison
     Emmer
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Faso
     Fitzpatrick
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gianforte
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Grothman
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Joyce (OH)
     Kaptur
     Katko
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kelly (PA)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     LaHood
     Lance
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lewis (MN)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     MacArthur
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Marino
     Mast
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McKinley
     McNerney
     Meehan
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Murphy (PA)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Newhouse
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rosen
     Roskam
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, Austin
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Stefanik
     Stivers
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Tenney
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Tiberi
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walden
     Walz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth
     Young (AK)
     Zeldin

                             NOT VOTING--20

     Bridenstine
     Costa
     Crist
     Cummings
     Curbelo (FL)
     DeGette
     DeSantis
     Deutch
     Diaz-Balart
     Garrett
     Meadows
     Pelosi
     Posey
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Tsongas
     Wagner
     Wasserman Schultz
     Webster (FL)


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1450

  So the amendment, as modified, was rejected.


 =========================== NOTE =========================== 

  
  September 7, 2017, on page H7119, the following appeared: So the 
amendment was rejected.
  
  The online version has been corrected to read: So the amendment, 
as modified, was rejected.


 ========================= END NOTE ========================= 

  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


            Amendment No. 81 Offered by Mr. Castro of Texas

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Texas (Mr. 
Castro) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which the 
noes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 183, 
noes 230, not voting 20, as follows

                             [Roll No. 465]

                               AYES--183

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Courtney
     Crowley
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Kaptur
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth

                               NOES--230

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Costello (PA)
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Cuellar
     Culberson
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Denham
     Dent
     DesJarlais
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Graves (MO)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jones
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Katko
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Latta
     Lawson (FL)
     Lewis (MN)
     LoBiondo
     Long
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     MacArthur
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meehan
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Norman
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Peterson
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Roskam
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tiberi
     Tipton
     Trott
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                             NOT VOTING--20

     Bridenstine
     Costa
     Crist
     Cummings
     Curbelo (FL)
     DeGette
     DeSantis
     Deutch
     Diaz-Balart
     Garrett
     Meadows
     Pelosi
     Posey
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Tsongas
     Wagner
     Wasserman Schultz
     Webster (FL)


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1454

  So the amendment was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


                Amendment No. 84 Offered by Ms. Jayapal

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from 
Washington (Ms. Jayapal) on which further proceedings were postponed 
and on which the noes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.

[[Page H7120]]

  The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 180, 
noes 230, not voting 23, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 466]

                               AYES--180

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Courtney
     Crowley
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Kaptur
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Perlmutter
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth

                               NOES--230

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Costello (PA)
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Cuellar
     Culberson
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Denham
     Dent
     DesJarlais
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Graves (MO)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jones
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Katko
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Long
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     MacArthur
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meehan
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Norman
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Roskam
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Sinema
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tiberi
     Tipton
     Trott
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                             NOT VOTING--23

     Bridenstine
     Castor (FL)
     Cole
     Costa
     Crist
     Cummings
     Curbelo (FL)
     DeGette
     DeSantis
     Deutch
     Diaz-Balart
     Emmer
     Garrett
     Meadows
     Pelosi
     Posey
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Tsongas
     Wagner
     Wasserman Schultz
     Webster (FL)


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1511

  So the amendment was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


                          PERSONAL EXPLANATION

  Mr. WEBSTER of Florida. Mr. Chair, due to the impending landfall of 
Hurricane Irma in Florida, I departed Washington, D.C. to be in my 
district during this natural disaster.
  Had I been present, I would have voted:
  ``Nay'' on rollcall No. 462.
  ``Yea'' on rollcall No. 463.
  ``Yea'' on rollcall No. 464.
  ``Nay'' on rollcall No. 465.
  ``Nay'' on rollcall No. 466.


       Amendments En Bloc No. 4 Offered by Mr. Rogers of Kentucky

  Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky. Mr. Chairman, pursuant to House Resolution 
500, as the designee of Mr. Frelinghuysen, I offer amendments en bloc.
  The Acting CHAIR (Mr. Bost). The Clerk will designate the amendments 
en bloc.
  Amendments en bloc No. 4 consisting of amendment Nos. 90, 93, 100, 
102, 103, 104, 105, 108, 109, 111, and 117, printed in part B of House 
Report 115-295, offered by Mr. Rogers of Kentucky:


           amendment no. 90 offered by mrs. lowey of new york

       Page 858, line 11, after the dollar amount insert the 
     following: ``(reduced by $10,000,000) (increased by 
     $10,000,000)''.


          amendment no. 93 offered by mr. mitchell of michigan

       At the end of division G (before the short title), insert 
     the following:


                  limitation on conference attendance

       Sec. __.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available by this Act may be used to attend the Canadian 
     Water Resources Association's National 2018 Conference, ``Our 
     Common Water Future: Building Resilience through 
     Innovation''.


         amendment no. 100 offered by mr. valadao of california

       Page 890, line 11, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $1,500,000) (increased by $1,500,000)''.


        amendment no. 102 offered by mr. lynch of massachusetts

       Page 898, line 1, after the first dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $4,545,000)''.
       Page 902, line 20, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $4,545,000)''.


          amendment no. 103 offered by mr. foster of illinois

       Page 899, line 15, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $10,000,000) (increased by $10,000,000)''.


        amendment no. 104 offered by mr. budd of north carolina

       Page 1001, beginning on line 1, after ``individuals'' 
     insert ``, including family members of Palestinians,''.


         amendment no. 105 offered by mrs. torres of california

       Page 1056, line 18, insert ``except for funds made 
     available for the International Commission against Impunity 
     in Guatemala or the Mission to Support the Fight against 
     Corruption and Impunity in Honduras,'' after ``and 
     Honduras,''.


           amendment no. 108 offered by mr. trott of michigan

       At the end of division G (before the spending reduction 
     account), insert the following:
       Sec. __.  None of the of funds made available by this 
     division may be used by the Department of State to close or 
     merge the Office of International Religious Freedom.


         amendment no. 109 offered by mr. schneider of illinois

       At the end of division G (before the short title), insert 
     the following:
       Sec. _.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available by this Act may be used to close the Office of the 
     Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism of the 
     Department of State or to merge such Office with any other 
     office or entity in the Department of State.


        amendment no. 111 offered by mr. ted lieu of california

       At the end of division G (before the short title), insert 
     the following:
       Sec. _.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available by this Act may be used to close the Office of 
     Global Criminal Justice of the Department of State or to 
     merge such Office with any other office or entity in the 
     Department of State.


           amendment no. 117 offered by mr. meeks of new york

       At the end of division G (before the short title), insert 
     the following:

[[Page H7121]]

       Sec. _.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used to reduce the number of fellows in the Charles B. 
     Rangel International Affairs Program, the Thomas R. Pickering 
     Foreign Affairs Fellowship Program, or the Donald M. Payne 
     International Development Fellowship Program below current 
     levels.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 500, the gentleman 
from Kentucky (Mr. Rogers) and the gentlewoman from New York (Mrs. 
Lowey) each will control 10 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Kentucky.
  Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the 
gentleman from Michigan (Mr. Mitchell).
  Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of my amendment within 
the en bloc amendments as a step to protect the Great Lakes.
  Ontario Power Generation, a Canadian energy company, has proposed to 
build an underground nuclear waste facility along the shores of Lake 
Huron, which borders my district.
  Their plan is nothing short of irresponsible. Any failure at this 
site would have devastating impacts on Michigan and Canada, which rely 
on the Great Lakes for drinking water, tourism, and commerce.
  Canada and OPG have displayed intransigence in the face of the near 
universal objection of my constituents, and many of the residents of 
the Great Lakes region. My amendment serves to further highlight to the 
Canadian Government the gravity of this issue.

                              {time}  1515

  The International Joint Commission was developed to resolve 
binational water disputes between the United States and Canada, yet 
they have not addressed this critical risk to the Great Lakes. My 
amendment would prohibit staff from attending or participating in an 
annual Canadian water resources conference, ironically, titled, ``Our 
Common Water Future.''
  Prohibiting staff from attending this conference does not 
substantially relate to the IJC's core mission of protecting shared 
waters, but it sends an important message to our neighbors in Canada. 
It is time for the Canadian Government to take our concerns seriously 
regarding this potential threat to our precious Great Lakes.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
Illinois (Mr. Schneider), who is a member of the Foreign Affairs 
Committee.
  Mr. SCHNEIDER. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of my amendment, which 
is included in this en bloc package.
  My amendment would protect the Office of the Special Envoy to monitor 
and combat anti-Semitism and ensure its continued operation.
  Anti-Semitism not only still exists today, but it is on the rise in 
many places around the world. Just last month, a motorist in France 
yelled, ``Kill the Jew,'' as he advanced with a knife toward a Jewish 
male who was wearing a Star of David necklace.
  Keeping this office intact, appointing a special envoy, and providing 
adequate staff is incredibly important as we continue to fight anti-
Semitism around the world.
  I would like to thank my colleagues for including my amendment in the 
en bloc package, and I ask them all to join me in voting for it.
  Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the 
gentleman from California (Mr. Valadao).
  Mr. VALADAO. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support of my amendment, 
which ensures critical funding for ongoing demining projects in 
Nagorno-Karabakh.
  As a result of land mines laid during the Nagorno-Karabakh war, the 
men, women, and children of the region have lived their lives under the 
constant threat of crippling injury or death from an exploding mine. 
Not only have many families in Nagorno-Karabakh lost loved ones as a 
result of land mine accidents, families have had their entire 
livelihoods destroyed from economic and societal consequences.
  Since 2000, the HALO Trust, an organization dedicated to restoring 
communities threatened by various weapons of war, has cleared more than 
approximately 90 percent of the minefields scattered throughout 
Nagorno-Karabakh. According to the organization, $8 million will be 
required to make the region mine-free by 2020. My amendment will help 
secure $1.5 million to be used as an important downpayment for this 
effort.
  Mr. Chairman, ensuring families in Nagorno-Karabakh can live without 
fear of land mine accidents is indisputable, and I urge my colleagues 
in the House of Representatives to support my amendment.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from 
California (Mrs. Torres), who is a member of the Foreign Affairs 
Committee.
  Mrs. TORRES. Mr. Chairman, I rise to offer my amendment to this 
appropriations bill.
  This amendment would strengthen the International Commission against 
Impunity in Guatemala, CICIG, and the Mission to Support the Fight 
against Corruption and Impunity in Honduras. Specifically, it would 
exempt both institutions from the conditions that Congress has placed 
on U.S. assistance to Central America.
  I am strongly supportive of conditions on aid to Central America, but 
the conditions must not interfere with the work of CICIG and MACCIH, 
which have been valuable allies in the fight against corruption and 
have helped the people of Honduras and Guatemala work toward a more 
secure and prosperous future.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to support this amendment.
  Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky. Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my 
time.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support of this amendment. 
I do support the en bloc amendment, and I appreciate the chairman's 
inclusion of amendments from Democratic Members as well.
  I am very pleased that the en bloc includes a procedural amendment to 
allow me to discuss the deportation status of Mr. Jakiw Palij, a former 
Nazi guard. I had filed an amendment that would have directly addressed 
the deportation status of Mr. Jakiw Palij, but it was ruled out of 
order by the Rules Committee.
  The U.S. State Department must ensure that justice is served and that 
Mr. Palij is held accountable for his crimes. He served as a guard at 
the Nazi Trawniki camp. This camp was the site of untold atrocities, 
including the death of thousands of blameless victims at the hands of 
the Nazi regime. Mr. Palij's role at the Trawniki camp served the Nazi 
regime by trapping men, women, and children in inhumane conditions, 
where they waited for their untimely deaths.
  After the Holocaust, Mr. Palij came to the United States, where he 
omitted his service at the Nazi camp, and eventually he became a U.S. 
citizen. When his crimes during the Holocaust came to light, the United 
States stripped him of his citizenship, but he continues to reside in 
New York, as Poland, Germany, and Ukraine have each declined to take 
him.
  I believe that it is time for Mr. Palij to be held accountable for 
his crimes. So, again, I thank the chairman for including this in the 
en bloc amendment.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky. Would the Chair advise whether or not 
amendment No. 103 is included in the en bloc?
  The Acting CHAIR. Without objection, the Clerk will redesignate 
amendments en bloc No. 4.
  There was no objection.
  The Clerk redesignated amendments en bloc No. 4.
  Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky. Mr. Chairman, I urge the adoption of 
amendments en bloc, and I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendments en bloc offered 
by the gentleman from Kentucky (Mr. Rogers).
  The en bloc amendments were agreed to.


                Amendment No. 91 Offered by Mr. Rothfus

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 91 
printed in part B of House Report 115-295.
  Mr. ROTHFUS. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 861, line 5, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(decreased by 30,000,000)''.
       Page 861, line 6, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(decreased by 30,000,000)''.
       Page 898, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by 30,000,000)''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 500, the gentleman

[[Page H7122]]

from Pennsylvania (Mr. Rothfus) and a Member opposed each will control 
5 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Pennsylvania.
  Mr. ROTHFUS. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  My submitted amendment, No. 91 to division G, the State and Foreign 
Ops Appropriations bill, transfers $30 million to the International 
Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement account, or INCLE. The proposed 
$30 million transfer would allow INCLE funding to remain consistent 
with 2017 levels.
  One notable program that INCLE assists is the Merida Initiative. As 
we all here know, our Nation is reeling from an out-of-control opioid 
epidemic. My district in western Pennsylvania, like so many throughout 
the United States, has been particularly hard hit. According to the 
DEA, overdoses in Pennsylvania rose by 37 percent last year. Attorney 
General Sessions recently said that drug overdoses are the top lethal 
issue in the country today.
  Across the border in Mexico, our neighbor is suffering from massive 
levels of violence and murder, mostly fueled by drug trafficking 
organizations, and the violence levels are increasing. Mexico's monthly 
murder rate has now reached a 20-year high.
  Mr. Chairman, the Merida Initiative is a partnership between the 
United States and the Mexican Government that combats drug cartels and 
organized crime in Mexico. It also helps to strengthen the Mexican 
justice system by fostering the rule of law and respect for human 
rights.
  Mr. Chairman, the majority of heroin and other narcotics, including 
fentanyl, smuggled into the U.S. come through Mexico or pass through 
it. Preventing drugs from ever crossing the border is a crucial step to 
healing our Nation.
  In order to reduce the flow of narcotics coming over the border, we 
need to do everything we can to help our international law enforcement 
partners fight drug traffickers in their own country. The United States 
had previous successes with these types of drug interdiction programs, 
particularly in Colombia in the 1990s. We can replicate that success in 
Mexico if we invest in the INCLE and in our foreign law enforcement 
allies.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. SARBANES. Mr. Chairman, I claim the time in opposition to the 
amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Maryland is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. SARBANES. Mr. Chairman, whatever priority or alternative use of 
these funds is being proposed, I can't imagine that it would compete 
with where this money is being taken away from. The $30 million that 
has been identified would be taken away from the Fulbright Program, 
which is one of the most effective programs of public diplomacy the 
United States has ever produced.
  Authored by William Fulbright, it has established cultural exchange 
for decades between the United States and countries around the world 
and done so much good in terms of projecting American values abroad and 
inviting people from other countries to come here to the United States 
to learn about our Nation and what we stand for.
  I admit that I am biased. I had the privilege and honor, back in 
1984, to go to Greece on a Fulbright scholarship, and I saw firsthand 
the benefits of that program.
  There are 37 current and former heads of state or government and 57 
Nobel laureates who are alumni of the Fulbright Program. The various 
programs of international cultural exchange are a signature of 
international exchange that we have in this country. It is really the 
crown jewel of those programs, and to take any money away from the 
program, I think, is a very serious mistake.
  I would also add that investment in the Fulbright Program leverages a 
tremendous amount of additional resources when you look at what other 
countries have put into the equation. The program now operates in 165 
countries around the world, and 49 of those countries match or exceed 
the funding that the United States puts into the program.
  So, in other words, we have invited countries around the world to 
step up and partner with us through the Fulbright Program on 
international exchange. They have taken that invitation seriously, and 
they have put significant resources behind it, which has kept the 
program strong even though funding, recently, here in this country has 
been flat.
  If anything, we should be increasing our investment in a program like 
this at a time when public diplomacy and making sure that people around 
the world understand who we are and what we stand for should be a 
number one priority.
  I urge my colleagues, Mr. Chairman, to reject this amendment. I think 
it is a mistake. There are 1,300 U.S. colleges and universities, half 
of which are public and more than 125 of which are minority serving, 
that now benefit from hosting Fulbright scholars here in the United 
States.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge opposition to this amendment, and I reserve the 
balance of my time.
  Mr. ROTHFUS. Mr. Chairman, this amendment should not be viewed as any 
criticism of the merits of the Fulbright Program. I don't have any. But 
we are talking about prioritization. The INCLE program has been cut by 
$36 million.

                              {time}  1530

  We are in the throes of a catastrophic opioid epidemic in this 
country, and Mexico is suffering from untold violence. The headlines 
tell the story:
  ``Mexico's bloody drug war is killing more people than ever.'' LA 
Times, July 22, 2017.
  ``26 people killed in northern Mexico gunfight as drug cartel 
violence continues to rise.'' LA Times, July 5, 2017.
  ``Mexico City has mostly been spared from grisly drug violence. Now 
that may be changing.'' The Washington Post, July 26, 2017.
  ``U.S. warns of rise in drug cartel violence in Chihuahua.'' El Paso 
Times, July 7, 2017.
  ``Acapulco is now Mexico's Murder Capital.'' The Washington Post, 
August 24, 2017.
  ``The Deadliest Assignment: Reporting in Mexico.'' CBS News, August 
21, 2017.
  ``Gunmen Kill Prominent Mexican Journalist Who Covered Drug Cartel.'' 
The New York Times, May 15, 2017.
  ``Another journalist has been gunned down in Mexico--the eighth 
killed this year.'' LA Times, July 31, 2017.
  ``A Mexican reporter was in a program to protect journalists. He was 
still killed.'' LA Times, August 23, 2017. He was the 10th journalist 
killed this year.
  Then, there are the headlines in my district:
  ``Cambria County coroner again `sounding the alarm' as OD deaths 
accelerate.'' Johnstown Tribune Democrat, February 14, 2017.
  ``A young couple died of overdose, police say. Their baby died of 
starvation days later.'' The Washington Post, December 25, 2016.
  ``Beaver County overdose deaths still on the rise in 2017.'' Beaver 
County Times, May 25, 2017.
  ``Allegheny County drug overdose deaths surge to 613 in 2016, 
breaking record.'' Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, April 6, 2017.
  ``Heroin overdose of 11-year-old Pittsburgh girl not a sign of 
childhood epidemic, experts says.'' TribLive, May 5, 2017.
  ``Mother grieves for son, asks God to `damn heroin.''' Johnstown 
Tribune Democrat, March 5, 2016.
  Mr. Chairman, we have budget constraints. We need to be putting the 
resources where the problem is. We have an opioid epidemic in this 
country. We have violence in Latin America. The funds that I seek to 
move into INCLE will help to stem these crises.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. SARBANES. Mr. Chairman, I certainly don't quarrel with the 
concerns and priorities that my colleague has set forth. Let's find 
resources to address those issues, but let's not take them from a 
proven valuable program like the Fulbright Program.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentlewoman from New York 
(Mrs. Lowey).
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I appreciate my colleague's effort to boost 
funding for a successful assistance program such as the Merida 
Initiative. The flow of drugs into the United

[[Page H7123]]

States is a serious concern and more emphasis should be put on both the 
demand and supply side of the issue. However, I cannot support an 
amendment to take from another very successful program such as the 
Fulbright Program.
  The Fulbright Program is our flagship public diplomacy program. It 
has run for over 70 years and boasts more than 370,000 alumni that are 
now in leadership positions and have a positive connection with the 
United States. These alumni include 37 current or former heads of 
state, 57 Nobel Laureates, 82 Pulitzer Prize winners, 29 MacArthur 
Fellows Foundation, 16 Presidential Medal of Freedom recipients, and 
thousands of leaders across private, public, and non-private sectors.
  There are 1,300 U.S. institutions that actively participate in the 
Fulbright Program, either receiving or sending students to become 
global citizens, a requirement in today's interconnected economy.
  In our challenging times, Mr. Chairman, we cannot hinder such an 
effective diplomatic tool as the Fulbright Program.
  Mr. SARBANES. Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. ROTHFUS. Mr. Chairman, again, this amendment is not meant to 
bring a detraction to the Fulbright Program. Even with the amendment, 
the Fulbright Program will be funded at more than $200 million to 
support the initiatives that the opponents to the amendment would cite.
  Again, I talk about priorities. I talk about the grips of the crisis 
that we are seeing in this country and our neighbor to the south, 
Mexico. We need to be working together to address this problem. 
Programs like the Merida Initiative are key to solving both the crisis 
in Mexico and the crisis here in the United States.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge adoption of my amendment, and I yield back the 
balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Rothfus).
  The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the ayes 
appeared to have it.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I demand a recorded vote.
  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further 
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Pennsylvania 
will be postponed.


        Amendment No. 92 Offered by Mr. Austin Scott of Georgia

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 92 
printed in part B of House Report 115-295.
  Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the 
desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 864, line 17, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $10,000,000)''.
       Page 898, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $10,000,000)''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 500, the gentleman 
from Georgia (Mr. Austin Scott) and a Member opposed each will control 
5 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Georgia.
  Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, this amendment would 
increase the appropriations for the Western Hemisphere regional 
security cooperation account by $10 million and reduce the 
appropriation for contributions to the international organizations 
account by $10 million.
  These funds will be appropriated to the International Narcotics and 
Law Enforcement Affairs account and are available for 2 years. Thus, 
the State Department would have to obligate the funds within that 
timeframe.
  Mr. Chairman, we lose between 4,000 and 5,000 of our fellow Americans 
to drug overdoses every month. This amendment reallocates $10 million 
to the International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs account at 
the State Department. This will provide additional resources to combat 
the dangerous and illegal actions of transnational criminal 
organizations by supporting the efforts of the Government of Colombia 
in enhancing regional security capabilities to provide training and 
technical assistance to partners in Central and South America.
  Over the years, Colombia has made continuous progress in abating 
narcotics trafficking through various eradication operations and law 
enforcement efforts. Between 2009 and 2013, Colombia trained more than 
22,000 military and law enforcement officers from Central America and 
the Caribbean countries in security operations and human and drug 
trafficking interdiction.
  By increasing funding for training and assistance activities 
conducted by Colombian police and military forces, we enable Colombia 
to train even more regional police forces to function independently.
  As it is here in the U.S., local law enforcement serves as the 
foundation for interdiction and counter-drug operations in Central 
American and Caribbean countries. Our strategic partnership with 
Colombia is aimed at producing both short- and long-term results in 
regional security.
  Over time, Colombian training and expertise provided to 
underdeveloped regional police forces will decrease reliance on U.S. 
funding. Part of this progress includes the development of Colombia's 
rural police force, where a vast majority of narcotics are grown, 
produced, and prepped for export to the United States.
  Just a few months ago, I had the opportunity to visit the Joint 
Interagency Task Force South and SOUTHCOM's headquarters in Florida to 
hear and see firsthand the challenges that migrant and drug 
interdiction within the Caribbean region pose on homeland and national 
security.
  I can tell you that it was an eye-opening experience, and I 
appreciate even more the work our Federal and local enforcement 
agencies are doing in interdiction and intervention.
  When it comes to stemming the flow of narcotics to the United States, 
a big part of overcoming the challenges we face is ensuring that our 
strategic partners have the support they need to continue their efforts 
to tackle these threats head-on.
  We must continue to support these efforts. They play a critical role 
in not only reducing the drug flow over our borders, but promoting 
stability and peace throughout Central and South America.
  It is no secret that the United States faces a drug epidemic that 
touches all corners of our Nation. This amendment is just one more 
contribution to a multieffort, multinational approach to all law 
enforcement personnel involved in these efforts, as well as our allies 
in the region. I thank them for the important work they do in reducing 
the flow of drugs into the United States.
  Mr. Chairman, I encourage adoption of the amendment, and I reserve 
the balance of my time.
  Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to the amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from New York is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Chairman, this amendment, unfortunately, would harm 
American leadership on the global stage, cutting our investment in the 
international organizations account by $10 million.
  Mr. Chairman, this bill already underfunds diplomacy and development 
when we should be investing more in these critical components of our 
national security. Cutting resources for our work in international 
organizations would take us further in the wrong direction.
  Just so we are clear about which international organizations we are 
talking about, they are NATO, the World Health Organization, and the 
International Atomic Energy Agency.
  Do we really want to damage the effectiveness of these organizations 
and our ability to lead from within them?
  Congress just passed critical sanctions on Russia. NATO is the main 
organization defending Europe against Vladimir Putin's aggression. But 
instead of bolstering the NATO alliance, this amendment would only 
reinforce the reluctance to support the North Atlantic Alliance by some 
in the administration. This should worry lawmakers on both sides of the 
aisle as well as Americans at home following the debate.
  How about the World Health Organization? The last time I looked, the 
World Health Organization was fighting the Zika and Ebola outbreaks. Do

[[Page H7124]]

we now want to slash its funding and undermine its role of responding 
to the next major pandemic? I can assure you that the diseases we don't 
combat abroad today eventually will reach our shores.
  North Korea is threatening the globe with nuclear weapons. Iran 
remains not far behind. So I cannot fathom why we would want to cut 
funding for the IAEA, given its crucial role in monitoring nuclear 
safety around the world.
  Of course, this amendment would also reduce our support for the U.N. 
regular budget. Withholding this funding could cause the United States 
to fall behind at the U.N., further diminishing our standing in the 
world, calling into question our commitment as a global leader, and 
ceding ground to Vladimir Putin and others who are happy to expand 
their reach but who do not share our values.

  In fact, even a senior administration official, our own Ambassador to 
the United Nations, Nikki Haley, has said on many occasions that while 
she supports efforts to reform the U.N., she does not support a ``slash 
and burn'' approach.
  This amendment, unfortunately, is a ``slash and burn'' approach, Mr. 
Chairman, and I urge my colleagues to join me in opposing it.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from New York (Mrs. 
Lowey), my esteemed colleague who is the ranking member of the 
Appropriations Committee and a fellow New Yorker.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong opposition to this 
amendment.
  I agree with the gentleman's sentiments to put greater emphasis and 
engagement with our Southern neighbors.
  The United States can and should be very involved with the issues in 
our own backyard, especially those involving crime and drug smuggling. 
However, to fund this increased engagement, this amendment takes a 
further cut from the contributions to the international organizations 
account, which funds our assessed contributions to the U.N. and other 
international bodies. This account is already $188 million below our 
current enacted level and will put us in further arrears to our 
international partners.
  I also think it is important to note that the offset proposed by the 
gentleman's amount would also come at the expense of our support to 
regional partners, such as the Organization of American States, the Pan 
American Health Organization, and the Inter-American Institute for 
Cooperation on Agriculture.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to oppose this amendment.
  Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Chairman, I think the gentleman is trying to put money 
in place for something with which I agree. It is not that I disagree 
with it, but I disagree with where he is taking the money from. I think 
that is the problem with it.
  Hopefully, we can, when it comes time for a final budget, include 
both of these. But to borrow from Peter to pay Paul, I think is not a 
good idea.
  Mr. Chairman, I oppose the amendment, and I yield back the balance of 
my time.
  Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I would just reiterate 
that it removes less than 1 percent of the account. So 99 percent of 
the account remains in place.
  It will help reduce the flow of drugs into the United States. We will 
lose between 4,000 and 5,000 Americans not next year, but next month.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield the balance of my time to the gentleman from 
Kentucky (Mr. Rogers).

                              {time}  1545

  Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky. Mr. Chairman, the gentleman has offered, I 
think, a reasonably good amendment, and we would like to see it 
adopted, so I urge an ``aye'' vote.
  Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance 
of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Austin Scott).
  The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the ayes 
appeared to have it.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I demand a recorded vote.
  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further 
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Georgia will 
be postponed.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I move to strike the last word.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman from New York is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chair, there is bipartisan consensus that our foreign 
assistance should be as effective and efficient as possible. That is 
why I am deeply concerned that several amendments offered by myself and 
my colleagues to address the destructive policies facing women's health 
were blocked from consideration on this bill.
  We know the disastrous effects of the global gag rule, which force 
reproductive health providers to choose between receiving U.S. funds or 
providing comprehensive healthcare. But this bill would exponentially 
increase the damage of the global gag rule by expanding its application 
to all global health assistance.
  It is unconscionable to insert abortion politics into lifesaving 
programs that prevent pandemics, lower rates of maternal and child 
deaths, and treat those suffering from malnutrition, HIV, AIDS, and 
malaria.
  Since May, organizations have been trying to ensure compliance with 
unclear guidance. Most do not yet know the impact on their programs or 
whether they will be able to find new partners in hard-to-serve areas.
  Expanding this policy without knowing the impact is senseless and 
will jeopardize lives. The bill also prohibits funding for UNFPA, a 
primary U.S. partner ensuring women fleeing violence have safe maternal 
care.
  The United States neither can nor should conduct programs in every 
country. We currently conduct bilateral family planning programs in 34 
countries. By contributing to UNFPA, we can help women in nearly 100 
additional countries get access to needed services.
  This bill ignores the fact that family planning is the most effective 
way to prevent abortion and unwanted pregnancies, and it decimates the 
effectiveness of our global programs for millions.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield to the gentlewoman from California (Ms. Lee), 
my colleague on the State, Foreign Operations Subcommittee who has been 
an effective, aggressive advocate on a whole range of issues and an 
invaluable member of our committee.
  Ms. LEE. Mr. Chairman, I want to thank our ranking member for 
yielding, but also I just want to thank her for her tireless leadership 
on our subcommittee and full committee. You truly are a champion for 
all Americans, especially women and girls not only in our own country 
but all around the world. So it is really too bad we have to stand here 
and even debate this again, but thank you again for your leadership.
  I am proud to speak in support of our ranking member's amendment to 
strike two poison pill riders in this bill.
  Now, my colleagues and I have offered amendments to strike these 
ideological--that is what they are--provisions both in the full 
Appropriations Committee and again during the Rules Committee. It is 
outrageous, quite frankly, that the majority refuse to allow these 
amendments to even come to the floor for a debate.
  Now, I have fought long and hard against the global gag rule, which 
denies family planning funding to organizations who want to help women 
plan their families. We have been fighting this now for at least, 
myself, two decades.
  This cruel policy is really a political football putting lives at 
risk just to score a few cheap political points. President Trump and 
this Republican majority have taken this extreme policy to the limits, 
expanded it to all global health funding.
  Let me be clear. This policy will cost lives. This administration's 
actions have consequences, and, sadly, it is the most vulnerable women 
and girls who will pay the price. The expanded global gag rule also 
undermines our longstanding bipartisan foreign aid priorities like 
fighting gender-based violence and ending AIDS.
  On top of that, this bill includes a prohibition of funding for 
UNFPA, again, based on pure ideology. UNFPA works in some of the most 
dangerous

[[Page H7125]]

places, giving care to those who need it the most. They treat victims 
of sexual violence and provide menstrual hygiene services and maternity 
care in humanitarian crisis settings.
  I visited many times UNFPA projects all around the world, and I have 
seen firsthand the tremendous impacts these programs have on the lives 
of those they serve. Defunding these programs truly will kill women.
  I urge my colleagues to reject these harmful riders, reject this 
bill, and get back to regular order. It is time to stop trying to push 
through these really untenable bills that really are very dangerous to 
women and girls throughout the world and babies.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Committee will rise informally.
  The Speaker pro tempore (Mr. Lamborn) assumed the chair.

                          ____________________



