

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 202 (Tuesday, December 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 202 (Tuesday, December 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H9792-H9793]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




   PASS A HURRICANE DISASTER SUPPLEMENTAL AND SUPPORT HARVEY VICTIMS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. Gene Green) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise for the thousands of 
hurricane disaster victims in our district in Houston and Harris 
County, Texas, along the Texas Gulf Coast, who are suffering this 
holiday season due to the Federal Government's inaction and Congress' 
delay in passing an adequate disaster supplemental bill.
  People from Texas, Louisiana, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands are 
all U.S. citizens.
  Hurricane Harvey's destruction was beyond anything witnessed in 
living memory in Texas. The Houston area typically gets 49 inches of 
rain throughout the year. A record 52 inches of rain fell in Houston 
and the Texas Gulf Coast, causing catastrophic flooding in our Nation's 
fourth largest city.
  Harvey damaged over 300,000 homes and apartments in the city of 
Houston alone. Statewide, nearly 600,000 homes have been inspected by 
FEMA for flood or wind damage. Most tragically, 88 Texans lost their 
lives in Harvey's wrath.
  Texans are a proud and independent people. We take pride in our self-
reliance and can-do attitude. This was best seen in the actions of our 
brave first responders and countless volunteers from all over the 
country who rescued their neighbors during the worst flooding.
  Unfortunately, many Harvey victims, and especially our seniors and 
low-income families, continue to be in great need and must rely on 
others for help.

[[Page H9793]]

A report released last week by the Kaiser Family Foundation found that 
African-American Texans, Hispanic Texans, and Texans with lower income 
were the most likely to have suffered property damage or loss of income 
due to Harvey.

                              {time}  1015

  The same report found that over 50 percent of all Harvey disaster 
victims in Texas have been denied assistance from the Federal 
Government or are still waiting for a final answer.
  To date, the Federal Government has provided just $10 million in aid 
for Harvey victims. Much more Federal aid is needed to rebuild Houston, 
Harris County, and the Texas Gulf Coast.
  After Hurricane Katrina hit Louisiana and Mississippi, Congress 
responded by passing a series of disaster spending bills that provided 
$120 billion to rebuild New Orleans and surrounding areas. The Governor 
of Texas has requested $60-plus billion.
  Three months after Sandy made landfall, Congress passed a $50 billion 
disaster relief bill to help New York and New Jersey rebuild.
  Yesterday, I learned the House leadership is planning on delaying the 
disaster supplemental for Harvey and the other hurricanes that ravaged 
Florida, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands for another month, until 
after Christmas and New Year's. These funds are needed now.
  December 25, Christmas Day, will mark the 4-month anniversary of 
Harvey's landfall. Mr. Speaker, the people of Texas deserve better. 
Today, thousands of Texans in my district and throughout Houston and 
the Gulf Coast are living in tents, in their cars, and in flooded, 
moldy houses that are unsafe for our children and the elderly. America 
can do better than this.
  During this season of giving, Congress must act and help these 
disaster victims in need or Texas will suffer a second man-made 
disaster by the United States Congress.

                          ____________________



