

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 203 (Wednesday, December 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 203 (Wednesday, December 13, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S8003]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    REMEMBERING CAPTAIN ERIC BALLIET

  Mr. DONNELLY. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize and honor the 
extraordinary service and sacrifice of Captain Eric Balliet of the Fort 
Wayne Fire Department. Service to his community and compassion were 
qualities that defined Eric's life.
  Eric was a 19-year veteran with the Fort Wayne Fire Department who 
devoted his life to the Fort Wayne community. A compassionate and 
devout father, husband, friend, and leader, Eric was someone whom 
everyone knew and loved in the community. He will be remembered as a 
hero.
  On September 27, 2017, Eric was leading a training exercise. After 
performing the physically demanding drill, Eric suffered a heart attack 
and passed away. He led the fire department as a captain, and Fire 
Chief Eric Lahey called Eric's passing ``a great loss for the Fort 
Wayne fire department.'' Lahey also said, ``He was a good firefighter. 
A good man. We're going to miss him.'' At the time of his passing, Eric 
was eligible and scheduled for promotion to the rank of battalion chief 
and was promoted posthumously to that rank. He put his life on the line 
so that Hoosiers could have the chance to live in peace and safety, and 
we are eternally grateful.
  Eric was born and raised in Fort Wayne. He graduated from Northrop 
High School in 1994 and earned an associate's degree from Ivy Tech. He 
not only served his community as a firefighter but also as a paramedic 
with Three Rivers Ambulance Authority, a deputy coroner with the Allen 
County Coroner's Office, captain of traffic division in the Allen 
County Sheriff Reserves, and dean of campers at the Great Lake Burn 
Camp.
  Eric was a member of Pathway Christian Church. He adored his two 
children and loved spending time with them. He was known for his 
ability to make anyone laugh and for his genuine care for everyone he 
came across. He is remembered for his service and sacrifice.
  He is survived and deeply missed by his wife, Alicia, and their twin 
children, Lucas and Alyssa; father, Gail; mother, Deborah; brother, 
Aaron; sister, Tina; grandparents, in-laws, nieces, nephews, and 
cousins; and his fellow firefighters. He loved his job as a Fort Wayne 
firefighter, and no amount of gratitude can repay Eric or his loved 
ones for his sacrifice.
  Through his compassion and his dedication to his community, Eric 
exemplified Hoosier values. His memory will not soon be forgotten. May 
God welcome Eric home and give comfort to his family and friends.

                          ____________________



