

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 212 (Tuesday, December 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 212 (Tuesday, December 26, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H10427-H10428]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 4 of rule I, the 
following enrolled bills were signed by Speaker pro tempore Upton on 
Friday, December 22, 2017:
  H.R. 267, to redesignate the Martin Luther King, Junior, National 
Historic Site in the State of Georgia, and for other purposes;
  H.R. 381, to designate a mountain in the John Muir Wilderness of the 
Sierra National Forest as ``Sky Point'';
  H.R. 518, to amend the Energy Policy and Conservation Act to exclude 
power supply circuits, drivers, and devices designed to be connected 
to, and power, light-emitting diodes or organic light-emitting diodes 
providing illumination from energy conservation standards for external 
power supplies, and for other purposes;
  H.R. 560, to amend Delaware Water Gap National Recreation Area 
Improvement Act to provide access to certain vehicles serving residents 
of municipalities adjacent to the Delaware Water Gap National 
Recreation Area, and for other purposes;
  H.R. 699, to amend the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 2009 to 
modify provisions relating to certain land exchanges in the Mt. Hood 
Wilderness in the State of Oregon;
  H.R. 863, to facilitate the addition of park administration at the 
Coltsville National Historical Park, and for other purposes;
  H.R. 954, to remove the use restrictions on certain land transferred 
to Rockingham County, Virginia, and for other purposes;
  H.R. 1242, to establish the 400 Years of African-American History 
Commission, and for other purposes;
  H.R. 1306, to provide for the conveyance of certain Federal land in 
the State of Oregon, and for other purposes;
  H.R. 1927, to amend title 54, United States Code, to establish within 
the National Park Service the African American Civil Rights Network, 
and for other purposes;
  H.R. 2142, to improve the ability of U.S. Customs and Border 
Protection to interdict fentanyl, other synthetic opioids, and other 
narcotics and

[[Page H10428]]

psychoactive substances that are illegally imported into the United 
States, and for other purposes;
  H.R. 2228, to provide support for law enforcement agency efforts to 
protect mental health and well-being of law enforcement officers, and 
for other purposes;
  H.R. 2331, to require a new or updated Federal website that is 
intended for use by the public to be mobile friendly, and for other 
purposes;
  H.R. 2611, to modify the boundary of the Little Rock Central High 
School National Historic Site, and for other purposes;
  H.R. 4661, to reauthorize the United States Fire Administration, the 
Assistance to Firefighters Grants program, the Fire Prevention and 
Safety Grants program, and the Staffing for Adequate Fire Emergency 
Response grant program, and for other purposes;
  S. 1393, to streamline the process by which active duty military, 
reservists, and veterans receive commercial driver's licenses;
  S. 1532, to disqualify from operating a commercial motor vehicle for 
life an individual who uses a commercial motor vehicle in committing a 
felony involving human trafficking;
  S. 1766, to reauthorize the SAFER Act of 2013, and for other 
purposes.

                          ____________________



