

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 200 (Thursday, December 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 200 (Thursday, December 7, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9715]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      HONORING ALICE FUQUA McCALL

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
North Carolina (Mr. Holding) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. HOLDING. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and thank an 
exceptional North Carolinian, Alice Fuqua McCall, who has spent nearly 
three decades working for Members of Congress.
  Alice first began her career with Senator Jesse Helms back in 1986 as 
a special assistant. Alice was fresh out of college when she came to 
Washington, D.C., and was immediately hired to work for the Senator on 
Capitol Hill.
  It was during this time, Mr. Speaker, that I first met Alice. We both 
served on Senator Helms' staff together, bringing conservative North 
Carolina values--and, in Alice's case, Southern charm--to our work in 
the Senate.
  When Senator Helms retired in 2003, Senator Elizabeth Dole welcomed 
Alice to her staff in Raleigh to handle constituent services. Mr. 
Speaker, Alice spent 6 years working for Senator Dole in that role. 
During that time, she became well known in North Carolina for her 
personal attention to casework. She helped countless constituents 
navigate the many problems that arise when dealing with Federal 
agencies.
  Following her time working in the Senate, Alice moved over to the 
House side, serving on the staff of former Congresswoman Renee Ellmers 
as her constituent services director. Alice's caring and compassionate 
demeanor made her a logical choice for that position.
  That is why, Mr. Speaker, when I was first elected to serve as a 
Member of Congress, I couldn't think of anyone better suited to serve 
as my district director than Alice McCall. Her devotion to her work and 
the people of North Carolina made her an excellent hire.
  This past summer, Alice retired from her Federal service after almost 
5 years on my staff. The people of North Carolina were lucky to have 
her as an advocate. My office certainly misses her and will not be the 
same without her.
  I will always think of Alice as a colleague and good friend from our 
time together with Senator Helms, and I wish her and her family well as 
she enjoys her much-deserved retirement.

                          ____________________



