

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 175 (Monday, October 30, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 175 (Monday, October 30, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6873]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                RECOGNIZING OUR LADY OF PEACE POST 1947

 Mr. HELLER. Mr. President, today I wish to honor the Catholic 
War Veterans of America's Our Lady of Peace Post 1947 in Las Vegas, NV, 
and Dennis DeGree, Post 1947 first vice commander and Vegas native.
  Post 1947 exemplifies their motto of ``For God, country, and home.'' 
The group works tirelessly to help veterans, their families, homeless 
veterans, and active duty personnel. I am deeply appreciative of these 
veteran members' sacrifices and service, as well as the group's efforts 
to support Nevadans who have answered our Nation's call.
  Founded in 2006, Post 1947 is Nevada's first Catholic War Veterans of 
America post and one of 215 posts across the country. The organization 
offers a number of critical initiatives to the veteran and Las Vegas 
communities.
  The group's youth programs include poster and essay contests, letter 
writing and get-well cards for hospitalized veterans, and the Eugene T. 
Roark Memorial Junior ROTC Scholarship Program. Additionally, Post 1947 
maintains and operates a food pantry, participates in homeless stand-
downs, and educates and assists veterans, their families, widows, and 
orphans in obtaining VA medical care and benefits.
  At the 82nd Annual Convention of the Catholic War Veterans held in 
St. Louis, MO, Post 1947 of Las Vegas was awarded Most Outstanding Post 
of 2017 out of 215 posts. This award was given to the post by the 
national department for best overall programs provided to all veterans 
regardless of religious ethnicity. Our Lady of Peace Post 1947 has won 
this award 8 of the past 10 years.
  Post 1947 was recognized because of a successful veteran service 
organization program they implemented called the National Veterans 
Service Office. Since opening in 2013, the National Veterans Service 
Office has been successful in obtaining over $10 million in awards to 
veterans. Remarkably, Our Lady of Peace Post 1947 has been named the 
Most Outstanding Welfare Program 9 of the past 10 years by the national 
department.
  Post 1947's major achievements do not end there. Dennis DeGree, first 
vice commander of the group, was deservedly named Most Outstanding 
Catholic War Veteran of 2017 by the National Catholic War Veterans. Mr. 
DeGree received the award ``for being the individual who, in the 
opinion of the National Department, has contributed most to the 
betterment of the CWV.''
  It is clear that Post 1947's contributions have made Las Vegas a 
better place for Nevada's warriors and their families. As a lifelong 
Nevadan and the senior U.S. Senator for the Silver State, I am honored 
to recognize both Post 1947 and Dennis DeGree for lending a hand to 
those who have made sacrifices in the name of this great 
country.

                          ____________________



