

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 149 (Thursday, September 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 149 (Thursday, September 14, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H7413]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




         RAISING AWARENESS FOR CENTRAL COAST VETERANS CEMETERY

  (Mr. PANETTA asked and was given permission to address the House for 
1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. PANETTA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize a group of 
veterans from the 20th Congressional District in California: Rick 
``Phin'' Phinney, Steve ``Pops'' Culver, and Hy ``Crash'' Libby, the 
three ``black sheep'' from the American Legion Post 31, who are about 
to complete an epic motorcycle ride across our country to raise 
awareness and financial support for the Central Coast Veterans 
Cemetery.
  Two weeks ago, I met and sent off the three riders and their crew at 
the Central Coast Veterans Cemetery, and tomorrow, all of them will 
arrive at the Arlington National Cemetery. Throughout that epic ride, 
they have been carrying a large American flag, and once they get here, 
that flag will be flown over the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier.
  The veterans will then return that flag to Central Coast Veterans 
Cemetery where it will be proudly flown over that hallowed ground.
  Having driven 10,000 miles through 21 States, the three black sheep 
will truly have an epic ride. From our community's veteran cemetery 
there on the central Coast to our Nation's veterans' cemetery here in 
our Capital, this journey will not only support the Central Coast 
Veterans Cemetery, it will serve as another demonstration of what our 
veterans do best: serve those who serve our Nation. And for that, I not 
only recognize Phin, Pops, and Crash, I honor them and I thank them, 
once again, for their service.

                          ____________________



