

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 147 (Tuesday, September 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 147 (Tuesday, September 12, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S5213]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      TRIBUTE TO ELIZABETH ATWOOD

 Ms. HASSAN. Mr. President, this month, I have the distinct 
honor of recognizing Elizabeth Atwood, of Rochester, NH, as our Granite 
Stater of the Month for her contributions to her community as a 
capacity building specialist with SOS Recovery Community Organization, 
where she helps individuals who are struggling with substance misuse 
access recovery services and support networks.
  As someone who struggled with substance misuse herself, Elizabeth has 
shown tremendous courage in telling her own story of accessing 
treatment and recovery services. At New Horizons homeless shelter, 
Elizabeth received help enrolling in Medicaid, allowing her to undergo 
treatment for substance use disorder, improve her physical health, and 
receive counseling. Through her perseverance and determination, 
Elizabeth regained custody of her son, gained employment, and now 
receives health insurance coverage through her employer.
  Now working at SOS Recovery Community Organization, Elizabeth 
provides incredible value to her community, working tirelessly to help 
individuals struggling with substance use disorder. Elizabeth does 
everything from helping create policy and procedures and offering 
trainings to community members, to helping find detox beds for people 
who come into the Rochester facility.
  As many Granite Staters like Elizabeth know, the heroin, fentanyl, 
and opioid crisis is the most pressing public health and safety 
challenge facing New Hampshire. Now more than ever, New Hampshire needs 
more people like Elizabeth who are dedicated to helping combat this 
crisis. I am deeply grateful for the courage she has shown in telling 
her inspirational story and her drive to help others who face the same 
challenges she did. Elizabeth represents the best of New Hampshire, and 
I am honored to recognize her as our Granite Stater of the 
month.

                          ____________________



