

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 160 (Thursday, October 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 160 (Thursday, October 5, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6356]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   RECOGNIZING FIGARETTI'S RESTAURANT

 Mr. MANCHIN. Mr. President, today I wish to honor Figaretti's 
Restaurant in the scenic northern panhandle of my home State of West 
Virginia.
  Figaretti's was recently named the best Italian restaurant in West 
Virginia. In my home State, this honor means so much more than just 
good food. It is a testament to our State's value of family, heritage, 
and traditions.
  Some people may think our love of history means we cling to the past. 
It is the exact opposite. In an age where the future seems so 
uncertain, where we have access to more information and more choices 
than we know how to process, West Virginians know their priorities. 
What has stayed constant throughout history is our commitment to our 
loved ones, keeping our traditions alive, and passing our knowledge of 
our diverse heritage on to the next generation. The future of West 
Virginia and the entire country is at the forefront of our minds. These 
are the values that have made West Virginia stand out in our Nation, 
and these values are also present in the legacy of excellence at 
Figaretti's.
  In 1944, Sicilian immigrant, Anna Figaretti, started making spaghetti 
sauce for her neighbors while her husband, Giuseppe, worked in the 
local mine in Clarksburg. Soon, with support and encouragement from her 
community and help from her five sons, Anna's spaghetti sauce became 
available in local grocery stores and eventually in her own restaurant.
  Today the restaurant is owned by the third generation of the family. 
It is my honor to congratulate Dino Figaretti, his wife, Michelle, and 
his son, Enzio, for this special recognition. Gayle and I have enjoyed 
the company of the Figaretti family at the beloved Wheeling location 
and have shared many great meals and conversations with Tony, Sr., and 
Tony, Jr. I value their friendship so very much.
  Owning a business is one of the most challenging and rewarding 
experiences, and doing it as a family makes it all the more special.
  It is my honor to recognize and celebrate the Figaretti family and 
the Wheeling community for this well-deserved honor.

                          ____________________



