

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 147 (Tuesday, September 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 147 (Tuesday, September 12, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S5211]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




        100TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE BUFFALO BILL CENTER OF THE WEST

  Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, today I wish to commemorate the 100th 
anniversary of the founding of the Buffalo Bill Center of the West in 
Cody, WY. On January 10, 1917, William F. ``Buffalo Bill'' Cody passed 
away, resulting in the creation of the Buffalo Bill Memorial 
Association on March 1, 1917. This association became known as the 
Buffalo Bill Center of the West on February 8, 2013, and has since 
performed the task of preserving the great legacy and historical 
significance of Buffalo Bill Cody. He came to symbolize the American 
West and lived the tale like no other as an explorer, frontiersman, 
soldier, scout, actor, entrepreneur, and civic leader.
  In 1867, Cody received his nickname of ``Buffalo Bill'' as he hunted 
buffalo for the Kansas Pacific Railroad, where he became known as an 
expert shot. He soon became a civilian scout for the U.S. Army, and in 
that capacity, he was awarded the U.S Congressional Medal of Honor. In 
1883, Cody created Buffalo Bill's Wild West show, in which he gained 
fame and notoriety for the show's dramatic recreations of life on the 
frontier. The performances highlighted Cody's knowledge of the American 
West. Cody was an important source of information regarding the West 
for American Presidents from Ulysses S. Grant to Woodrow Wilson.
  After his death, the Buffalo Bill museum opened on July 4, 1927, to 
tell the story of Col. William F. ``Buffalo Bill'' Cody. Since this 
opening, the Buffalo Bill Center has expanded and become known as one 
of America's finest Western museums. The center actually features four 
museums: the Whitney Gallery of Western Art, the Buffalo Bill Museum, 
the Plains Indian museum, and the Cody Firearms Museum.
  Thanks to the overwhelming support and dedicated staff and board of 
trustees, there is always something new to see and explore from the 
days of the Wild West. It represents a story of a time when people who 
were larger than life dominated the national stage, and thanks to the 
historical center, they will never be forgotten. I encourage folks to 
come to Wyoming and explore the Buffalo Bill Center of the West. It 
will be an experience they will never forget. It is an opportunity to 
see firsthand what inspired Buffalo Bill to take the story of the West 
and tell it all over the world. I am pleased to be a part of this 
tradition and express my continuing support for the Buffalo Bill Center 
of the West and its inspiring education of the American West. 
Congratulations on 100 years and my best wishes for the next 100.
  Thank you.

                          ____________________



