

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 158 (Tuesday, October 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 158 (Tuesday, October 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6288-S6289]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 146

  At the request of Mr. McCain, the names of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) and the Senator from Missouri (Mrs. McCaskill) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 146, a bill to strengthen accountability 
for deployment of border security technology at the Department of 
Homeland Security, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 293

  At the request of Mr. Scott, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mrs. 
Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of S. 293, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for the deferral of inclusion in gross 
income for capital gains reinvested in opportunity zones.


                                 S. 322

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Menendez) was added as a cosponsor of S. 322, a bill to protect 
victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, and dating 
violence from emotional and psychological trauma caused by acts of 
violence or threats of violence against their pets.


                                 S. 366

  At the request of Mr. Rounds, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Inhofe) was added as a cosponsor of S. 366, a bill to require the 
Federal financial institutions regulatory agencies to take risk 
profiles and business models of institutions into account when taking 
regulatory actions, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 384

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 384, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently extend the new markets tax 
credit, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 482

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mr. Blunt) was added as a cosponsor of S. 482, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to treat certain amounts paid for 
physical activity, fitness, and exercise as amounts paid for medical 
care.


                                 S. 708

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 708, a bill to 
improve the ability of U.S. Customs and Border Protection to interdict 
fentanyl, other synthetic opioids, and other narcotics and psychoactive 
substances that are illegally imported into the United States, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1002

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the names of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Portman) and the Senator from North Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1002, a bill to enhance the ability of community 
financial institutions to foster economic growth and serve their 
communities, boost small businesses, increase individual savings, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 1042

  At the request of Mr. Bennet, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1042, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code to exclude Segal Americorps Education Awards and 
related awards from income.


                                S. 1064

  At the request of Mr. Udall, the name of the Senator from Connecticut 
(Mr. Murphy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1064, a bill to amend the 
Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act to prohibit the 
stigmatization of children who are unable to pay for meals.


                                S. 1108

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1108, a bill to 
amend title 4, United States Code, to provide for the flying of the 
flag at half-staff in the event of the death of a first responder in 
the line of duty.


                                S. 1110

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the names of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal), the Senator from Vermont (Mr. Leahy), the 
Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) and the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Sanders) were added as cosponsors of S. 1110, a bill to amend 
title 49, United States Code, to provide for private lactation areas in 
the terminals of large and medium hub airports, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1274

  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1274, a bill to direct the 
President to establish an interagency mechanism to coordinate United 
States development programs and private sector investment activities, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 1568

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Menendez) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1568, a bill to require 
the Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in commemoration of 
President John F. Kennedy.


                                S. 1589

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1589, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 and the Small Business Act to expand the 
availability of employee stock ownership plans in S corporations, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 1595

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the names of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Barrasso), the Senator from Maine (Ms. Collins) and the Senator 
from Arkansas (Mr. Cotton) were added as cosponsors of S. 1595, a bill 
to amend the Hizballah International Financing Prevention Act of 2015 
to impose additional sanctions with respect to Hizballah, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1766

  At the request of Ms. Murkowski, her name was added as a cosponsor of 
S. 1766, a bill to reauthorize the SAFER Act of 2013, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1769

  At the request of Ms. Hassan, the name of the Senator from Missouri

[[Page S6289]]

(Mrs. McCaskill) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1769, a bill to require 
a new or updated Federal website that is intended for use by the public 
to be mobile friendly, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1791

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mrs. McCaskill) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1791, a bill to amend 
the Act of August 25, 1958, commonly known as the ``Former Presidents 
Act of 1958'', with respect to the monetary allowance payable to a 
former President, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1827

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1827, a bill to extend 
funding for the Children's Health Insurance Program, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1847

  At the request of Mr. Daines, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mrs. McCaskill) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1847, a bill to amend 
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to ensure that the needs of children 
are considered in homeland security, trafficking, and disaster recovery 
planning, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1867

  At the request of Mr. Daines, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mrs. McCaskill) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1867, a bill to amend 
title 40, United States Code, to eliminate the sunset of certain 
provisions relating to information technology, to amend the Carl Levin 
and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2015 to extend the sunset relating to the Federal Data 
Center Consolidation Initiative, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1899

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the names of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin), the Senator from Nebraska (Mrs. Fischer), the Senator 
from Montana (Mr. Tester) and the Senator from Arkansas (Mr. Boozman) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 1899, a bill to reauthorize and extend 
funding for community health centers and the National Health Service 
Corps.


                             S. CON. RES. 6

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the name of the Senator from Iowa 
(Mrs. Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of S. Con. Res. 6, a concurrent 
resolution supporting the Local Radio Freedom Act.

                          ____________________



