

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 173 (Thursday, October 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 173 (Thursday, October 26, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6846]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 RECOGNIZING KING CROP INSURANCE, INC.

 Mr. COONS. Madam President, it is with great pleasure that I 
rise, along with Senator Tom Carper of Delaware and Representative Lisa 
Blunt Rochester of Delaware, to honor one of Delaware's longstanding 
businesses that has provided exemplary service to the State of Delaware 
for the past 50 years: King Crop Insurance, Inc.
  Since 1967, King Crop Insurance, Inc., has played an essential role 
in meeting the needs of Delaware farmers and those in its surrounding 
areas. From providing financial assistance and support--ensuring that 
farms have the economic security to repay loans--to aiding those same 
farmers in expanding and growing their businesses, King Crop Insurance 
has committed itself to the people of our great State, while exhibiting 
unyielding support of one our Nation's most valuable industries: 
agriculture.
  The values of hard work and giving back to their community have 
always been a part of the King family. Catherine, Jackie, Donna, and 
the entire family are known throughout the State of Delaware for their 
generosity and support of local agricultural programs, such as the 4-H. 
The Kings are visible examples of serving others, as well as sowing 
seeds of success for the future. We are truly grateful for all they 
have done to inspire business growth and development, as well as 
preparing future generations for success in farming.
  We wholeheartedly congratulate King Crop Insurance, Inc., on 50 years 
of service to the State of Delaware and surrounding areas. Your quality 
of service and continued care for our farming community serves as a 
wonderful example for many others. We wish everyone the best.

                          ____________________



