

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 159 (Wednesday, October 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 159 (Wednesday, October 4, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6318]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      CONFIRMATION OF HALSEY FRANK

  Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I wish to express my strong support for 
the confirmation of Halsey Frank to serve as the U.S. Attorney for the 
District of Maine. Mr. Frank has 30 years of experience working for the 
U.S. Department of Justice in Washington, DC, and in Maine, and he is 
highly qualified to assume this crucial law enforcement position. I 
thank the Senate for swiftly confirming him.
  Mr. Frank is an intelligent, highly competent, experienced law 
enforcement professional. Mr. Frank has served as an Assistant U.S. 
Attorney for Maine for the past 17 years, during which he has shown an 
indepth knowledge of our country's criminal justice system and 
significant experience in both criminal and civil law. In this role, he 
has prosecuted Federal crimes related to fraud, drugs, white-collar 
offense, violence, civil rights, and environmental violations. He has 
defended the United States in civil cases and handled numerous appeals. 
Prior to his current post, Mr. Frank was an Assistant U.S. Attorney for 
the District of Columbia, one of the country's largest offices, where 
he worked on a wide range of civil and criminal matters. He is 
presently a resident of Portland, ME, and a graduate of Wesleyan 
University and Boston University School of Law.
  Based on his demonstrated proficiency and character, I have every 
confidence that Mr. Frank will successfully lead and coordinate local 
and Federal law enforcement activities in Maine to faithfully uphold 
our Nation's laws and ensure public safety and order. Throughout his 
long and distinguished career, Mr. Frank has shown a strong commitment 
to public service, and I am confident that he will serve the State of 
Maine and our Nation very well.

                          ____________________



