

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 193 (Tuesday, November 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 193 (Tuesday, November 28, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7358]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                        TRIBUTE TO PETE SELLECK

 Mr. SCOTT. Mr. President, I would like to recognize and 
congratulate Mr. Pete Selleck, chairman and president of Michelin North 
America, who is retiring next month. Mr. Selleck is concluding a 6-year 
tenure in the role. After 26 years of Active and Reserve U.S. Army 
service, Selleck started his career with Michelin in 1982 as an 
industrial engineer at Michelin's first U.S. plant. Selleck's career 
included various roles in North America and Europe, before accepting 
his final assignment as chairman and president of Michelin North 
America. As chairman and president for Michelin Group's largest global 
operating unit, Selleck was responsible for coordinating Michelin North 
America's business activities across the United States, Canada, and 
Mexico, which together comprise more than 22,000 employees.
  Outside the company, Selleck has been recognized broadly by leaders 
in the community, in business and in industry, across the local, State, 
and national levels. In recent years, Selleck played a key role 
advocating for road improvements across South Carolina; advocating for 
fiscal reform in the Federal Government; promoting dialogue and 
understanding on matters of diversity and inclusion; developing 
technical education to support industrial careers in South Carolina; 
and active support for the community of West Point alumni, the Boy 
Scouts of America, and the United Way. Congratulations, Mr. 
Selleck.

                          ____________________



