

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 154 (Tuesday, September 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 154 (Tuesday, September 26, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H7492-H7493]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1030
                     DEFEND, DENOUNCE, AND ANNOUNCE

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. Al Green) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. AL GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today and stand at the 
podium designated for Republicans, but I rise not as a Democrat or a 
Republican. I rise today, Mr. Speaker, not as a Liberal or a 
Conservative.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today as a proud American: a person who believes 
in his country, who salutes the flag, says the Pledge of Allegiance, 
and sings the national anthem.
  I rise today, Mr. Speaker, to make comments that I never thought I 
would have to make in the well of the House of Congress. I rise today 
to defend, denounce, and announce.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise to defend any mother who has been called a dog 
because her son engaged in peaceful protest. I rise, Mr. Speaker.
  I rise today, Mr. Speaker, to defend any son who is called the son of 
a dog because he engaged in peaceful protest. I rise, Mr. Speaker.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise to denounce these comments that have been made 
because they have brought discourse to a new low. Mr. Speaker, this is 
a level of indecency that is unbecoming of the Presidency.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise to say to the world that this is not what America 
is all about: calling people SOBs. We know what a ``B'' is. It is a 
dog.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise because my heart tells me that I must do 
something.
  Mr. Speaker, I denounce the comments that were made, and I rise to 
announce that next week I will bring a privileged resolution before the 
Congress of the United States of America.

[[Page H7493]]

I will stand here in the well of the Congress, and I will call for the 
impeachment of the President of the United States of America.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Members are reminded to refrain from 
engaging in personalities toward the President.

                          ____________________



