

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 148 (Wednesday, September 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 148 (Wednesday, September 13, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H7324]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




       SAN ANTONIO RESIDENTS' EFFORTS IN WAKE OF HURRICANE HARVEY

  (Mr. HURD asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. HURD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the extraordinary 
and selfless acts that have been demonstrated in my home State of Texas 
in the wake of Hurricane Harvey.
  The good folks in Houston, Rockport, and the rest of the Gulf Coast 
did not face this devastating storm alone. Among the many helping hands 
that were lent to the rescue and assistance of fellow Texans were those 
from my hometown of San Antonio. The San Antonio Emergency Operations 
Center worked to prepare for the storm and shifted to disaster response 
along the Gulf Coast.
  Given San Antonio's geographic location within the State, the EOC has 
become a crucial disaster response point for the State of Texas. They 
provided critical, round-the-clock support to local and statewide 
efforts in the days and weeks following the hurricane. These efforts, 
along with other private companies and nonprofit partners, have been 
nothing short of remarkable.
  Through donations of clothing, water, food, funds, and blood drives, 
San Antonians came out to show their solidarity with the folks in the 
impacted towns. I was humbled to witness a few of these selfless acts 
firsthand.
  I am proud of my hometown's swift response to our fellow Texans in 
need. I commend the organizations, businesses, and neighbors who have 
touched the lives of the thousands of hurricane survivors. They are the 
reason that we are Texas Strong.

                          ____________________



