

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 170 (Monday, October 23, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 170 (Monday, October 23, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H8056-H8057]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1700
  ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION BUSINESS TRAVEL CARDS ACT OF 2017

  Ms. McSALLY. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (S. 504) to permanently authorize the Asia-Pacific Economic 
Cooperation Business Travel Card Program.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                                 S. 504

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Asia-Pacific Economic 
     Cooperation Business Travel Cards Act of 2017''.

     SEC. 2. ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION BUSINESS TRAVEL 
                   CARDS.

       (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title IV of the Homeland 
     Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 211 et seq.) is amended by 
     inserting after section 417 the following:

     ``SEC. 418. ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION BUSINESS TRAVEL 
                   CARDS.

       ``(a) In General.--The Commissioner of U.S. Customs and 
     Border Protection is authorized to issue an Asia-Pacific 
     Economic Cooperation Business Travel Card (referred to in 
     this section as an `ABT Card') to any individual described in 
     subsection (b).
       ``(b) Card Issuance.--An individual described in this 
     subsection is an individual who--
       ``(1) is a citizen of the United States;
       ``(2) has been approved and is in good standing in an 
     existing international trusted traveler program of the 
     Department; and
       ``(3) is--
       ``(A) engaged in business in the Asia-Pacific region, as 
     determined by the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border 
     Protection; or
       ``(B) a United States Government official actively engaged 
     in Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation business, as determined 
     by the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection.
       ``(c) Integration With Existing Travel Programs.--The 
     Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection shall 
     integrate application procedures for, and issuance, renewal, 
     and revocation of, ABT Cards with existing international 
     trusted traveler programs of the Department.
       ``(d) Cooperation With Private Entities and Nongovernmental 
     Organizations.--In carrying out this section, the 
     Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection may 
     consult with appropriate private sector entities and 
     nongovernmental organizations, including academic 
     institutions.
       ``(e) Fee.--
       ``(1) In general.--The Commissioner of U.S. Customs and 
     Border Protection shall--
       ``(A) prescribe and collect a fee for the issuance and 
     renewal of ABT Cards; and
       ``(B) adjust such fee to the extent the Commissioner 
     determines necessary to comply with paragraph (2).
       ``(2) Limitation.--The Commissioner of U.S. Customs and 
     Border Protection shall ensure that the total amount of the 
     fees collected under paragraph (1) during any fiscal year is 
     sufficient to offset the direct and indirect costs associated 
     with carrying out this section during such fiscal year, 
     including the costs associated with operating and maintaining 
     the ABT Card issuance and renewal processes.
       ``(3) Account for collections.--There is established in the 
     Treasury of the United States an `Asia-Pacific Economic 
     Cooperation Business Travel Card Account' into which the fees 
     collected under paragraph (1) shall be deposited as 
     offsetting receipts.
       ``(4) Use of funds.--Amounts deposited into the Asia 
     Pacific Economic Cooperation Business Travel Card Account 
     established under paragraph (3) shall--
       ``(A) be credited to the appropriate account of the U.S. 
     Customs and Border Protection for expenses incurred in 
     carrying out this section; and
       ``(B) remain available until expended.
       ``(f) Notification.--The Commissioner of U.S. Customs and 
     Border Protection shall notify the Committee on Homeland 
     Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate not 
     later than 60 days after the expenditures of funds to operate 
     and provide ABT Card services beyond the amounts collected 
     under subsection (e)(1).
       ``(g) Trusted Traveler Program Defined.--In this section, 
     the term `trusted traveler program' means a voluntary program 
     of the Department that allows U.S. Customs and Border 
     Protection to expedite clearance of pre-approved, low-risk 
     travelers arriving in the United States.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in section 
     1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended by 
     inserting after the item relating to section 417 the 
     following new item:

``Sec. 418. Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Business Travel Cards.''.

     SEC. 3. ACCOUNT.

       (a) In General.--Notwithstanding the repeal of the Asia-
     Pacific Economic Cooperation Business Travel Cards Act of 
     2011 (Public Law 112-54; 8 U.S.C. 1185 note) pursuant to 
     section 4(b)(1), amounts deposited into the APEC Business 
     Travel Card Account established pursuant to such Act as of 
     the date of the enactment of this Act are hereby transferred 
     to the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Business Travel Card 
     Account established pursuant to section 418(e) of the 
     Homeland Security Act of 2002 (as added by section 2(a) of 
     this Act), and shall be available without regard to whether 
     such amounts are expended in connection with expenses 
     incurred with respect to an ABT Card issued at any time 
     before or after such date of enactment.
       (b) Availability.--Amounts deposited in the Asia-Pacific 
     Economic Cooperation Business Travel Card Account established 
     pursuant to section 418(e) of the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002, in addition to the purposes for which such amounts are 
     available pursuant to such subsection, shall also be 
     available for expenditure in connection with expenses 
     incurred with respect to ABT Cards issued at any time before 
     the date of the enactment of such section.
       (c) Termination.--After the completion of the transfer 
     described in subsection (a), the Asia-Pacific Economic 
     Cooperation Business Travel Card Account established pursuant 
     to the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Business Travel 
     Cards Act of 2011 shall be closed.

     SEC. 4. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS AND REPEAL.

       (a) Conforming Amendments.--Section 411(c) of section 411 
     of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 211(c)) is 
     amended--
       (1) in paragraph (17), by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (2) by redesignating paragraph (18) as paragraph (19); and
       (3) by inserting after paragraph (17) the following:
       ``(18) carry out section 418, relating to the issuance of 
     Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Business Travel Cards; 
     and''.
       (b) Repeal.--
       (1) In general.--The Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation 
     Business Travel Cards Act of 2011 (Public Law 112-54; 8 
     U.S.C. 1185 note) is repealed.
       (2) Saving clause.--Notwithstanding the repeal under 
     paragraph (1), an ABT Card issued pursuant to the Asia-
     Pacific Economic Cooperation Business Travel Cards Act of 
     2011 before the date of the enactment of this Act that, as of 
     such date, is still valid, shall remain valid on and after 
     such date until such time as such Card would otherwise 
     expire.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Simpson). Pursuant to the rule, the 
gentlewoman from Arizona (Ms. McSally) and the gentlewoman from 
California (Ms. Barragan) each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Arizona.


                             General Leave

  Ms. McSALLY. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their remarks 
and include any extraneous material on the bill under consideration.


 =========================== NOTE =========================== 

  
  October 23, 2017, on page H8056, the following appeared: 
unanimous that all Members have 5
  
  The online version has been corrected to read: unanimous consent 
that all Members have 5


 ========================= END NOTE ========================= 

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentlewoman from Arizona?
  There was no objection.

[[Page H8057]]

  

  Ms. McSALLY. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of S. 504, the Asia-Pacific 
Economic Cooperation Business Travel Cards Act of 2017.
  The Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation, or APEC, has been an economic 
catalyst for the Asia-Pacific region since 1989. APEC facilitates 
increased trade and business cooperation among the 21 member countries 
in the region that promote innovation, inclusiveness, and sustainable 
growth.
  Specifically, this bill reauthorizes the APEC Business Travel Card 
Program. The program began as a pilot in 2011, and this bill would 
implement best practices found throughout the 7-year pilot program.
  The APEC Business Travel Card is a travel document issued to business 
travelers who are citizens of APEC-participating economies. Valid for 5 
years, the card eliminates the need for its holders to possess a visa 
when visiting other APEC-participating economies as long as 
preclearance has been obtained through a trusted traveler application 
process.
  Our partnerships in the Asia-Pacific region are more important now 
than ever before. The APEC Business Card champions free and open trade, 
promotes economic integration, enhanced border security, and 
facilitates a sustainable global business environment. The program also 
helps to enhance border integrity and security in participating 
economies by prechecking each applicant against watch lists of other 
participating economies.
  The program offers cost savings to travelers and moves frequent 
travelers who have been prescreened through the international travel 
process more efficiently.
  The APEC Card is currently set to expire on September 30, 2018. Now 
is the time to reauthorize this important partnership between the 
United States and our friends in the APEC region.
  I would like to thank my colleagues Miss Rice and Mr. Donovan for 
introducing the House version of this bill, as well as Ms. Hirono and 
Mr. Daines in the Senate for their part in moving this legislation 
forward.
  I urge Members to join me in supporting this bill, and I reserve the 
balance of my time.
  Ms. BARRAGAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  I rise in support of S. 504, the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation, 
APEC, Business Travel Cards Act of 2017.
  Mr. Speaker, the APEC Business Travel Cards Act permanently 
reauthorizes the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Business Travel Card 
Program. This trusted-traveler program provides access to fast-track 
immigration lanes in airports for travelers who conduct verified 
business in the APEC region. APEC is a forum for 21 Pacific Rim 
countries, including the U.S. and Australia, to support sustainable 
economic growth and prosperity in the Asia-Pacific region.
  U.S. Customs and Border Protection started issuing cards to eligible 
Americans in 2014 after Congress passed the APEC Business Travel Cards 
Act in 2011. Today, the program facilitates travel for Americans 
working on behalf of 30,000 U.S. businesses. Under that law, the 
authority to issue these travel cards to Americans is set to expire on 
September 30, 2018.
  S. 504, the APEC Business Travel Cards Act of 2017, is supported by a 
diverse range of stakeholders, including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, 
the Asia-Pacific Council of American Chambers of Commerce, the U.S. 
Council for International Business, the U.S. Travel Association, and 
the American Hotel and Lodging Association.
  On the House Homeland Security Committee, companion legislation to S. 
504 was championed by Congresswoman Kathleen Rice of New York. With the 
leadership of Miss Rice and others, her bill was passed unanimously by 
our committee.
  Allowing ABT cards to expire would be a mistake that puts American 
businesses at a disadvantage. I urge my House colleagues to support 
this bipartisan legislation.
  Mr. Speaker, S. 504 is an important piece of legislation that has 
strong support on both sides of the aisle. The ABT Card Program allows 
business travelers and government officials with business in APEC 
countries to access fast-track processing lanes at APEC airports.
  The program saves an estimated 43 minutes per trip, according to U.S. 
Customs and Border Patrol, and operates entirely on user fees, costing 
taxpayers nothing. Importantly, it preserves authority for the 
Department of Homeland Security to revoke or suspend an individual's 
card for security reasons at any time.
  This is a commonsense, bipartisan bill, and I encourage my colleagues 
to support S. 504 to ensure that the bill gets to the President's desk.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Ms. McSALLY. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I once again urge my colleagues to support this 
legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.
  Miss RICE of New York. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of S. 504, 
Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Business Travel Cards Act of 2017, 
which is identical to bipartisan legislation I introduced in the House 
earlier this year along with Representatives Dan Donovan, Rick Larsen 
and Dave Reichert.
  This bill would permanently reauthorize the APEC Business Travel Card 
program, which provides access to fast-track immigration lanes at 
airports for travelers who conduct verified business in the APEC 
region.
  The U.S. has been participating in this program and issuing cards to 
verified American business travelers since 2014, after Congress passed 
the APEC Business Travel Cards Act in 2011.
  Under that law, the authority to issue these travel cards to 
Americans is set to expire on September 30, 2018--meaning that no new 
cards can be issued after that date, and all cards will expire by 2021, 
after which Americans will no longer be able to travel throughout the 
region as easily as business travelers from other APEC countries.
  S. 504 will permanently extend that authority, while maintaining the 
Department of Homeland Security's (DHS) authority to revoke or suspend 
an individual's card for security reasons at any time.
  Mr. Speaker, this is a successful program that operates at absolutely 
no cost to taxpayers and makes American businesses more competitive in 
the global economy--including many businesses in my home state of New 
York, which is home to more than 2,300 cardholders.
  Allowing these cards to expire would be a mistake that puts American 
business travelers at a disadvantage, and this legislation reflects a 
common-sense, bipartisan commitment to reauthorize the program 
permanently.
  I'm grateful to my colleagues from both parties in the House and 
Senate for their efforts to help move this legislation forward, and I 
urge all our colleagues to give it their full support today so we can 
send this bill to the President's desk.
  Mr. DONOVAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of S. 504, legislation to 
permanently authorize the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Business 
Travel Card Program.
  Mr. Speaker, this is a common-sense measure to make permanent a 
program that has been successful since its inception in 2011.
  More than 30,000 Americans currently hold fast-track cards that 
expedite business travel to Pacific Rim countries. The world economy is 
fast-paced and constantly evolving, and it's important to reduce 
bureaucratic obstacles for America to remain competitive.
  The APEC Business Travel Card helps Americans travel faster and more 
efficiently throughout the Asia-Pacific region, allowing them to spend 
more time on business, and less time in airport lines. We must ensure 
that our business leaders have the resources they need to compete in an 
increasingly globalized economy, which is why I'm proud to support the 
permanent extension of this program.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentlewoman from Arizona (Ms. McSally) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, S. 504.
  The question was taken.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the opinion of the Chair, two-thirds 
being in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
  Ms. McSALLY. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, further 
proceedings on this motion will be postponed.

                          ____________________



