

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 194 (Wednesday, November 29, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 194 (Wednesday, November 29, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H9472-H9473]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        THE ART OF THE TAX DEAL

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
Wisconsin (Ms. Moore) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. MOORE. Mr. Speaker, I proudly present the art of the deal:
  In the tax deal before us, we provide permanent tax cuts for 
individuals who are multimillionaires and billionaires. With this deal, 
all middle class families will eventually face a tax increase since tax 
relief for them expires.
  All taxes, of course, go up on folks earning as little as $10,000 a 
year almost immediately. After all, Mr. Speaker, somebody's got to pay 
for the wealthy's permanent tax cuts.
  Now, how do we get buy-in from the middle class, you ask. Well, here 
is the beauty of the deal, Mr. Speaker. We will trickle down a few 
crumbs from the master's table to get some of them through one or two 
Christmas shopping seasons; and let's tell them that they can do their 
taxes on a postcard and that they will just love that they won't have 
to go through all the tedious math work of receiving thousands of 
dollars in personal exemptions and State income and local tax relief.

                              {time}  1015

  They won't have to do all of that subtracting of medical expenses and 
student loan interest from their tax obligations.
  We will promise them jobs. Hey, yeah, let's do that through dynamic 
scoring, trickle-down and voodoo economic growth like we did during the 
Reagan and Bush years, back when we gave trillions of dollars in tax 
cuts to the wealthy and created the deficits that are now dragging on 
our economy.
  Mr. Speaker, people are so desperate that they will believe us. Of 
course, we will have to cut $25 billion out of Social Security 
immediately to meet budget rules, or maybe we can just cut some veteran 
benefits from mandatory spending. We are targeting $1.5 trillion in 
cuts to Medicaid and Medicare, but don't worry, Mr. Speaker, we will 
just defame recipients of these benefits as unworthy welfare cheats and 
the general public will go for our deal.
  Mr. Speaker, let's adopt a better deal. Let's pursue a commonsensical 
means of growing the economy, like spending these trillions of dollars 
on infrastructure instead of a giveaway to the wealthy, by providing 
postsecondary opportunity and skill development to our next generation 
of

[[Page H9473]]

innovators and workers instead of taxing our students into an abyss of 
debt.
  Let's fund research on medical cures instead of burying the infirm 
into early graves. Let us reject this abomination of a tax bill.

                          ____________________



