

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 156 (Thursday, September 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 156 (Thursday, September 28, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6221]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 TRIBUTE TO DAVID AHART AND CATHY GLENN

  Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, today, I wish to congratulate and thank 
Mr. David Ahart and Ms. Cathy Glenn on their retirement for their more 
than 28 years of service to the U.S. Senate.
  I have worked with Dave and Cathy in various roles within the U.S. 
Senate Recording Studio for nearly three decades.
  Before working in the radio division, Dave worked on the television 
side of the Senate Recording studio.
  Cathy also worked on the television side before coming to radio. 
Before that, she worked for Senator Dennis DeConcini of Arizona.
  It is not unusual for me to go to the Senate recording studio 
multiple times a week. If you do the math, you can see I have gotten to 
know Dave and Cathy very well over the years.
  I have always said that representative government is a two-way 
street, and communicating with Iowans through the media has always been 
an important part of my job. Dave and Cathy are an instrumental part of 
that process. Put simply, they have helped me keep in touch with 
Iowans, and for that, I couldn't be more grateful.
  It's also worth noting that Dave and Cathy are immensely kind and 
patient. Many days, my schedule can change in an instant. Dave and 
Cathy are always generous with their time and help me and my staff 
complete the work that needs to be done.
  Those who know Dave and Cathy know you never leave their studio 
without a smile and laughter. They are as friendly now as they were 30 
years ago.
  Dave, I hope you get back to Denison soon and stop at Cronks.
  Dave had family who lived in Denison, IA. Cronks is a mutually 
favorite restaurant that I always try to stop at when traveling through 
the area.
  Cathy, as you celebrate, make sure to eat an extra piece of chocolate 
for me. I think you have as big of a sweet tooth as I do.
  I wish Dave and Cathy all the best in retirement and the years to 
come.
  So to you two, I say thank you for all you have done. The U.S. 
Senate, the Senate Recording Studio, my staff and I will be forever 
grateful for your service.

                          ____________________



