

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 169 (Thursday, October 19, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 169 (Thursday, October 19, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6635-S6636]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       TRIBUTE TO ELAINE NEKRITZ

  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, earlier this month, Elaine Nekritz retired 
after more than 14 years of service representing the 57th District in 
the Illinois House of Representatives. Along with being a good friend 
and dedicated public servant, Elaine was a real leader for her 
constituents in Northbrook, Arlington Heights, Wheeling, Buffalo Grove, 
and across her district.
  Elaine's legacy in Illinois will always be visible as people travel 
on high-speed rail from Chicago to St. Louis and throughout the State. 
As the chair of the Illinois House Railroad Industry Committee, Elaine 
was a leader in advocating for high-speed rail before it was popular.
  During her service in the State House, Elaine championed women's

[[Page S6636]]

rights, the environment, and criminal justice reform as well. Because 
of Elaine's efforts, kids who have had run-ins with the law have a 
better shot at staying out of adult courts and avoiding getting caught 
in an endless criminal cycle.
  Elaine was always willing to listen to colleagues and friends on both 
sides of the aisle, even when partnership was challenging. She helped 
craft bold legislation to rescue Illinois from its dire economic 
circumstances. As house assistant majority leader, she was a leader in 
working to reform pensions in our State. Fiscal responsibility was 
always her core value.
  The people of the 57th District were lucky to have such a strong 
advocate. Her energy, creativity, and thoughtfulness will be missed.
  I thank her for her service to Illinois and her friendship. I wish 
her the best of luck in her next adventures and salute her husband, 
Barry, for his strong partnership with his talented spouse.

                          ____________________



