

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 147 (Tuesday, September 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 147 (Tuesday, September 12, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S5211]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 100TH ANNIVERSARY OF BRIDGTON HOSPITAL

  Mr. KING. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize the 100th 
anniversary of Bridgton Hospital. Over the past 100 years, Bridgton 
Hospital in Bridgton, ME, has consistently provided high quality, 
personal patient care for local communities in western Maine. 
Nationally recognized for its excellent performance, I am pleased to 
honor this hospital for its century of service and commitment to our 
State.
  Bridgton Hospital was originally founded in 1917 after Bridgton 
resident Clara Fogg left a bequest for the creation of the facility. 
Since then, Bridgton Hospital has grown tremendously due to the 
diligent efforts and commitment by community leaders. In 1999, Bridgton 
Hospital became a subsidiary of Central Maine Medical Center, making it 
a crucial part of the integrated regional healthcare system. During 
this past decade, Bridgton Hospital has taken a number of steps to 
expand its services, facilities, and operations, giving patients access 
to high quality care close to home that they once had to travel miles 
to receive.
  The exceptional team of physicians, professional clinicians, nurses, 
staff, and volunteers who work together to make Bridgton Hospital truly 
unique have garnered a number of awards for its care. In 2016 alone, it 
was one of 21 hospitals to be awarded ``Top Rural Hospital'' in the 
country. Bridgton Hospital was also selected as one of the top 20 
hospitals in the categories of overall performance and quality outcomes 
out of 1,400 small and rural hospitals in the U.S. The hospital was the 
only hospital in Maine to achieve top performance in all categories, 
including overall, quality outcomes, services scores, and financial 
results, as awarded by Maine Health Access Foundation. In past years, 
Bridgton Hospital has also been named one of the Best Places to Work in 
Maine. Additionally in 2016, Bridgton Hospital CEO David Frum was 
recognized as a ``Top 50 Critical Access CEOs to Know'' by Becker's 
Hospital Review magazine. Frum was recognized for his leadership and 
commitment to excellence.
  In January 2017, I had the privilege to personally visit Bridgton 
Hospital and speak with their healthcare experts and providers. This 
hospital stands as a shining example of how strong leadership and 
compassion for the community results in a successful organization. 
Bridgton Hospital has played an instrumental role in ensuring safe and 
quality healthcare in Maine. I wish to join the entire Bridgton 
community in congratulating Bridgton Hospital on their centennial 
achievement and thank them for their immeasurable service to the State 
of Maine.

                          ____________________



