

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 199 (Wednesday, December 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 199 (Wednesday, December 6, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7890]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                    TRIBUTE TO DR. CHARLES McMILLAN

 Mr. HEINRICH. Mr. President, it is an honor to recognize Dr. 
Charles McMillan for his leadership and service at Los Alamos National 
Laboratory as he plans his retirement at the end of this year.
  For 6 years, Dr. McMillan has served as director of Los Alamos, which 
employs some of the best and brightest minds in the Nation and is 
indispensable to our Nation's security and scientific and technology 
innovation.
  It has been a pleasure to work with Dr. McMillan to support LANL's 
national security missions and position the lab so it will continue to 
play vital role in nuclear security, cutting-edge research, and 
scientific advances in the decades ahead.
  Under Dr. McMillan's leadership, LANL has undertaken critical work to 
modernize our nuclear weapons complex through the Stockpile Stewardship 
Program.
  The multidisciplinary science and engineering at LANL has also 
produced new materials and technologies with applications such as earth 
system modeling, supercomputing analysis, exploration of Mars, and 
improved responses to global health crises.
  I have especially appreciated Dr. McMillan's commitment to working 
with the lab's surrounding communities in northern New Mexico.
  The incredible success of Los Alamos depends on building trusting 
relationships with local communities.
  I have been proud to work with Dr. McMillan to bring together LANL 
leadership, regional colleges, universities, and public schools to 
train more New Mexicans to become part of LANL's future workforce.
  I am grateful for the steps Dr. McMillan has taken to engage with the 
regional coalition of LANL communities on important issues such as 
contracting with local small businesses and cleaning up legacy waste.
  I commend Dr. McMillan for his incredible record of service to our 
Nation addressing some of our most complex issues and challenges.
  It has been an honor for me to know Charlie, and I wish him the best 
in all of his future endeavors.

                          ____________________



