

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 196 (Friday, December 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 196 (Friday, December 1, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7716]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  RECOGNIZING MAPLE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL

  Mr. DONNELLY. Mr. President, today, I wish to recognize Maple 
Elementary School of Avon, IN, for being named a 2017 National Blue 
Ribbon School by the U.S. Department of Education.
  Established in 1982, the National Blue Ribbon Schools Program 
recognizes schools that have demonstrated a vision of educational 
excellence for all students, regardless of their social or economic 
background. Since its inception, this program has allowed schools in 
every State to gain recognition for educational accomplishments, 
particularly in closing the achievement gaps among students.
  Maple Elementary School opened in 1971 and currently serves about 265 
students. Maple prides itself on educating the ``whole child'' and 
ensuring that students are safe, healthy, supported, engaged, and 
challenged. These principles reflect the school's belief that, when 
students' basic needs are met, they are able to thrive academically.
  Maple Elementary's staff, students, and families work together to 
teach and foster values that develop strong character including 
academic excellence and service to others. Teachers and staff mentor 
students and encourage them to take on leadership roles, including 
student council service. Student council members are selected by their 
peers and organize several service-oriented and school events each 
year. In addition, the school counselor trains a group of students to 
mediate disputes through Project Peace, a program that fosters 
leadership skills and promotes healthy conflict resolution.
  Maple Elementary helps nurture strong relationships between students, 
their families, and the faculty. From the annual ``Walk-a-Thon,'' to 
Fall Fun Night, to Pastries with Parents, to Grandparents Day, Maple 
Elementary School is an example of how dedication, motivation, 
collaboration, and strong family engagement in education can benefit 
both the students and the local community.
  With a diverse student body, Maple has created an atmosphere for 
students to learn about the various backgrounds and cultures 
represented at the school. From country flags displayed in the hallway 
representing the nationality of current students to the counselor-
sponsored Diversity Club, students are able to experience and interact 
with different cultures.
  I am proud to recognize Maple Elementary School Principal, Nicola Jo 
Harrison, the entire staff, the students, and their families. The 
effort, dedication, and value you put into these students' education 
has led not only to this prestigious recognition, but will benefit you 
and the Avon community well into the future.
  On behalf of the citizens of Indiana, I congratulate Maple Elementary 
School, and I wish the students and staff continued success in the 
future.

                          ____________________



