

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 198 (Tuesday, December 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 198 (Tuesday, December 5, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9623]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




           CONGRATULATING ALEC BAKER ON BEAR RESEARCH PROJECT

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Thompson) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
acknowledge the work of a student at Penn State DuBois.
  Alec Baker, a native of Clarion, Pennsylvania, is a student in the 
wildlife technology degree program at Penn State DuBois. He was 
recently awarded an Erickson Discovery Grant from Penn State's Office 
of Undergraduate Education for an independent research project.
  Alec's area of study focused on black bears and the impact the bears 
have on agriculture and farmers in Pennsylvania, particularly, the 
Commonwealth's corn crop. Alec conducted the project this summer for 
the Pennsylvania Game Commission and gathered information in the field 
through October. He is processing his findings this fall.
  Alec has conducted his research primarily using Clarion County as his 
study area. He has obtained nuisance bear reports for crop damage from 
the area dating back to the year 2000. He plans to chart trends in the 
data through these years and monitor sites for continued activity using 
cameras.
  In total, 219 students applied to receive an Erickson Discovery Grant 
this year, and Alec was one of 83 students from all Penn State 
locations and campuses who received a grant. The Erickson Discovery 
Grant allows students to immerse themselves in original research under 
the direct supervision of a faculty member in order to obtain hands-on 
experience in their chosen field.
  Alec has just completed his sophomore year in the wildlife technology 
associate degree program and will go on to earn a bachelor's degree in 
wildlife and fishery science.
  Mr. Speaker, I applaud Alec Baker for undertaking this important area 
of study. I have no doubt that his research will help farmers in the 
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania better protect their crops from bear-
related damage. Pennsylvania has one of the largest populations of 
black bears in North America, and thanks to studies like Alec's, the 
Commonwealth will be better able to understand how bears influence 
agriculture and how farmers can implement better management tactics to 
protect their crops.
  I congratulate Alec for his achievement and all those who received 
the Erickson Discovery Award, and I look forward to the results.

                          ____________________



