

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 204 (Thursday, December 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 204 (Thursday, December 14, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9926]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1245
                  CELEBRATING THE LIFE OF MAYOR ED LEE

  (Ms. PELOSI asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.)
  Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, it is with profound sorrow that I rise to 
pay tribute to a dear friend and an extraordinary leader, Mayor Ed Lee 
of San Francisco.
  All who knew Mayor Lee understood him to be a true gentleman of great 
warmth, positivity, and kindness. His passing is not only a tragic 
official loss for our city, but an immense personal loss for all who 
were fortunate to call him friend.
  Mayor Lee's first priority was always the people. His strong moral 
compass was rooted in his identity as the hardworking son of an 
immigrant family of modest means and was guided by his years as a 
community organizer and civil rights lawyer.
  Ed fundamentally understood that the strength of a community is 
measured by its success in meeting the needs of all its people. He knew 
the rhythms and the workings of San Francisco at the most granular 
level, and dedicated decades to improving the lives of all San 
Franciscans.
  As mayor, Ed Lee served with exceptional dignity and great 
effectiveness. His values-based, pragmatic leadership helped drive the 
city into a strong economic expansion.
  His firm commitment to equality made immense progress toward securing 
affordable housing and a living wage for all. His unwavering belief in 
justice helped combat the moral crisis of homelessness in San 
Francisco, particularly for our veterans. His bold, hopeful vision for 
the future further secured San Francisco's role as a model city for the 
Nation.
  Mayor Ed Lee's public service leaves an enduring, inspiring legacy 
that generations of San Franciscans will enjoy. As Ecclesiasticus says: 
The people will tell of His wisdom and the congregation will continue 
to sing His praise.
  Mayor Lee never had an unkind word for anyone, and no one ever had an 
unkind word for him. Even though our hearts are broken, we think of the 
person Ed Lee was, and we smile.
  Mayor Lee took deep pride in serving as the first Asian-American 
mayor of San Francisco. But his greatest source of joy was his beloved 
family. Our city owes a debt of gratitude to his wife, Anita; and his 
daughters, Brianna and Tania, for sharing this exceptional person with 
us.
  My deepest love and prayers are with his family. May it bring them 
some measure of comfort that so many people throughout the world mourn 
with them and continue to be inspired by him.
  Mr. Speaker, I am pleased that we are joined by so many Members of 
Congress from the California delegation and from the Asian Pacific 
American Caucus as well.

                          ____________________



