

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 195 (Thursday, November 30, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 195 (Thursday, November 30, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7558]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





                         TRIBUTE TO TED KOENIG

 Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this week, I have the distinct 
honor of recognizing Ted Koenig of Kalispell for lending a hand with 
the humanitarian relief efforts in the U.S. Virgin Islands. A few 
months ago, after the devastation of hurricanes Irma and Maria, Ted 
left his home in northwestern Montana and traveled to the Caribbean to 
take part in the recovery.
  When Ted arrived on the island of St. Thomas in late September, he 
arrived to immense destruction. His initial mission on the island was 
to serve as a planner, helping to assess needs and coordinate resources 
for the recovery, a job Ted is familiar with as he serves in a similar 
position as the northwestern Montana disaster program manager for the 
Red Cross. However, Ted spent the first few days hand-delivering 
essential supplies to areas outside the reach of emergency distribution 
centers. After helping deliver the basic necessities, Ted spent the 
final 2 weeks consolidating damage assessments to inform decisionmakers 
about the requirements for longer term recovery.
  Helping others in need is common in Big Sky Country, and Ted's 
journey to St. Thomas is another example of this ethic in action. This 
ethic runs deep from Kalispell to Broadus, from the Flathead River to 
the Powder River, and is revealed in Montana having one of the highest 
per capita Peace Corps volunteer rates in the Nation. It comes as no 
surprise that Ted served 3 years in the Peace Corps and was stationed 
in Madagascar. Thank you, Ted, for using your steady determination to 
help others overcome difficult circumstances.

                          ____________________



