

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 201 (Monday, December 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 201 (Monday, December 11, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7943]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        REMEMBERING RAY TREVINO

 Mr. HELLER. Mr. President, today I wish to memorialize Raymond 
Trevino, a man who gave so much to the people of Reno and who recently 
passed away at the age of 74.
  Known for his kind spirit and generous heart, Mr. Trevino was widely 
known for helping those in need receive a warm, healthy meal. Mr. 
Trevino, who first started as a volunteer a quarter of a century ago, 
served as the dining room director at Catholic Charities of Northern 
Nevada's St. Vincent Dining Room.
  It should go without saying that Mr. Trevino, Catholic Charities of 
Northern Nevada's longest serving employee, was a compassionate man who 
made a positive impact in the community. As the Reno Gazette-Journal 
recently noted, it is estimated that he served over 1 million meals to 
low-income and homeless people during his 25 years of service.
  Before setting up the dining room, Mr. Trevino, an Army veteran, was 
a casino food and beverage executive and the owner of five restaurants.
  Mr. Trevino was honored with the Mother Theresa Humanitarian Award in 
2013 for his work helping those in need. He was also presented with the 
Dolan Service Award by Dolan Auto Group for assisting struggling 
individuals and families in the community.
  As a testament to the legacy he leaves behind, at this year's annual 
Thanksgiving, over 200 volunteers came out to participate in the lunch 
and help feed more than 1,000 people. During the lunch, attendees paid 
tribute to Mr. Trevino's work and shared memories of his years of 
service.
  As Nevada's senior U.S. Senator, I know that Mr. Trevino will be 
sorely missed. My thoughts and prayers go out to his family and loved 
ones during this difficult time.

                          ____________________



