

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 169 (Thursday, October 19, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 169 (Thursday, October 19, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6637-S6638]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




          CHRISTENING OF THE USNS ``HERSHEL `WOODY' WILLIAMS''

  Mrs. CAPITO. Mr. President, today I wish to celebrate the christening 
of the United States Navy's T-ESB 4 Expeditionary Sea Base, USNS 
Hershel ``Woody'' Williams taking place on October 21, 2017. This 
vessel is named after the proud West Virginian and last surviving Medal 
of Honor recipient from the Pacific theater during World War II. This 
ship will serve as a flexible platform to support Special Forces 
helicopters and aircraft, as well as counterpiracy and mine 
countermeasures.
  This ship could not have a better namesake than Woody Williams. 
Woody's life is the embodiment of what it means to serve this country, 
both in his military service during World War II, and his service to 
veterans and Gold Star families in his civilian life. Corporal 
Williams' actions on Iwo Jima are the definition of heroism. He went 
forward alone, facing deadly machinegun fire from entrenched Japanese 
positions and fought bravely for 4 hours, taking out enemy positions 
one by one. His actions were crucial to his regiment's success on Iwo 
Jima, wiping out a heavily defended Japanese position.
  In addition to Woody's wartime heroism, for which he received the 
Congressional Medal of Honor, he also has devoted his life to 
servicemembers, veterans, and their families. Through the Hershel Woody 
Williams Medal of Honor Foundation, he honors Gold Star families who 
have lost loved ones that bravely sacrificed their lives in defense of 
our freedom by seeking to establish Gold Star Families Memorial 
Monuments in all 50 States. His foundation also offers scholarships to 
Gold Star children and sponsors outreach programs that educate 
communities about Gold Star families and the sacrifice that they have 
made. To date, the foundation has established 26 Gold Star Families 
Memorial Monuments across the country, with 50 other monuments underway 
in 38 States. Woody also served our Nation's veterans for 33 years as a 
veterans service representative in the Department of Veterans Affairs.
  At 94 years old, Woody continues to be an energetic, unyielding force 
for good. I have had the privilege of knowing Woody Williams for many 
years, and the christening of this mobile sea base vessel is a 
testament to Woody's

[[Page S6638]]

bravery, his dedication to our Nation's servicemembers, and his 
unwavering commitment to serving others. I am proud to rise today to 
recognize Mr. Williams and congratulate him on the christening of the 
USNS Hershel ``Woody'' Williams.

                          ____________________



