

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 168 (Wednesday, October 18, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 168 (Wednesday, October 18, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6543-S6590]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           TEXT OF AMENDMENTS

  SA 1149. Mrs. McCASKILL submitted an amendment intended to be 
proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent 
resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PREVENTING OPIOID DIVERSION.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     preventing opioid diversion, which may include repealing the 
     amendments made to the Controlled Substances Act by the 
     Ensuring Patient Access and Effective Drug Enforcement Act of 
     2016 by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1150. Mr. NELSON (for himself, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. Casey, Mr. 
Bennet, Ms. Klobuchar, Ms. Hassan, Ms. Baldwin, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. 
Van Hollen, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Sanders, Mr. Carper, Mr. Murphy, Ms. Warren, 
and Mr. Blumenthal) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 3, line 12, increase the amount by $5,850,000,000.
       On page 3, line 13, increase the amount by $12,300,000,000.
       On page 4, line 1, increase the amount by $19,550,000,000.
       On page 4, line 2, increase the amount by $27,900,000,000.
       On page 4, line 3, increase the amount by $37,150,000,000.
       On page 4, line 4, increase the amount by $47,600,000,000.
       On page 4, line 5, increase the amount by $59,500,000,000.
       On page 4, line 6, increase the amount by $71,850,000,000.
       On page 4, line 7, increase the amount by $87,250,000,000.
       On page 4, line 8, increase the amount by $103,950,000,000.
       On page 4, line 12, decrease the amount by $5,850,000,000.
       On page 4, line 13, decrease the amount by $12,300,000,000.
       On page 4, line 14, decrease the amount by $19,550,000,000.
       On page 4, line 15, decrease the amount by $27,900,000,000.
       On page 4, line 16, decrease the amount by $37,150,000,000.
       On page 4, line 17, decrease the amount by $47,600,000,000.
       On page 4, line 18, decrease the amount by $59,500,000,000.
       On page 4, line 19, decrease the amount by $71,850,000,000.
       On page 4, line 20, decrease the amount by $87,250,000,000.
       On page 4, line 21, decrease the amount by 
     $103,950,000,000.
       On page 4, line 25, increase the amount by $5,850,000,000.
       On page 5, line 1, increase the amount by $12,300,000,000.
       On page 5, line 2, increase the amount by $19,550,000,000.
       On page 5, line 3, increase the amount by $27,900,000,000.
       On page 5, line 4, increase the amount by $37,150,000,000.
       On page 5, line 5, increase the amount by $47,600,000,000.
       On page 5, line 6, increase the amount by $59,500,000,000.
       On page 5, line 7, increase the amount by $71,850,000,000.
       On page 5, line 8, increase the amount by $87,250,000,000.
       On page 5, line 9, increase the amount by $103,950,000,000.
       On page 5, line 13, increase the amount by $5,850,000,000.
       On page 5, line 14, increase the amount by $12,300,000,000.
       On page 5, line 15, increase the amount by $19,550,000,000.
       On page 5, line 16, increase the amount by $27,900,000,000.
       On page 5, line 17, increase the amount by $37,150,000,000.
       On page 5, line 18, increase the amount by $47,600,000,000.
       On page 5, line 19, increase the amount by $59,500,000,000.
       On page 5, line 20, increase the amount by $71,850,000,000.
       On page 5, line 21, increase the amount by $87,250,000,000.
       On page 5, line 22, increase the amount by 
     $103,950,000,000.
       On page 26, line 2, increase the amount by $5,850,000,000.
       On page 26, line 3, increase the amount by $5,850,000,000.
       On page 26, line 6, increase the amount by $12,300,000,000.
       On page 26, line 7, increase the amount by $12,300,000,000.
       On page 26, line 10, increase the amount by 
     $19,550,000,000.
       On page 26, line 11, increase the amount by 
     $19,550,000,000.
       On page 26, line 14, increase the amount by 
     $27,900,000,000.
       On page 26, line 15, increase the amount by 
     $27,900,000,000.
       On page 26, line 18, increase the amount by 
     $37,150,000,000.

[[Page S6544]]

       On page 26, line 19, increase the amount by 
     $37,150,000,000.
       On page 26, line 22, increase the amount by 
     $47,600,000,000.
       On page 26, line 23, increase the amount by 
     $47,600,000,000.
       On page 27, line 2, increase the amount by $59,500,000,000.
       On page 27, line 3, increase the amount by $59,500,000,000.
       On page 27, line 6, increase the amount by $71,850,000,000.
       On page 27, line 7, increase the amount by $71,850,000,000.
       On page 27, line 10, increase the amount by 
     $87,250,000,000.
       On page 27, line 11, increase the amount by 
     $87,250,000,000.
       On page 27, line 14, increase the amount by 
     $103,950,000,000.
       On page 27, line 15, increase the amount by 
     $103,950,000,000.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1151. Ms. COLLINS submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO THE 
                   PROVISION OF TAX RELIEF FOR SMALL BUSINESSES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     changes in Federal tax laws, which may include the provision 
     of tax relief for small businesses, along with provisions to 
     prevent upper-income taxpayers from sheltering income from 
     taxation at the appropriate rate, by the amounts provided in 
     such legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over the period of 
     the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1152. Mr. McCAIN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO THE 
                   IMPROVEMENT OF BROADBAND IN RURAL AMERICA.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     expanding access to broadband in rural areas of the United 
     States by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1153. Mr. McCAIN (for himself and Mr. Flake) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD NOT 
                   ADEQUATELY FUND WILDFIRE MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider a bill or joint resolution making appropriations 
     for a full fiscal year for Interior, Environment, and Related 
     Agencies programs for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
     2019, or an amendment thereto, amendment between the Houses 
     in relation thereto, conference report thereon, or motion 
     thereon, that provides funding for the wildfire management 
     account of the Forest Service if funding levels for that 
     account are not equal to or greater than the 90 percent 
     confidence interval estimate of the Secretary of Agriculture 
     under section 502(h)(3) of the FLAME Act of 2009 (43 U.S.C. 
     1748a(h)(3)) of anticipated wildfire suppression costs for 
     that fiscal year.
       (b) Application.--Subsection (a) shall not apply if--
       (1) the bill or joint resolution described in that 
     subsection provides not less than 100 percent of the rolling 
     10-year average of wildfire obligations; and
       (2) on or before the date on which the Senate is 
     considering a bill or joint resolution described in that 
     subsection, the Senate has enacted a bill or joint resolution 
     that provides new budget authority for wildfire disaster 
     relief for the fiscal year referred to in that subsection in 
     an amount not to exceed $1,460,000,000.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1154. Mr. McCAIN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO IMPROVING 
                   HEALTH CARE FOR VETERANS AND MEMBERS OF THE 
                   ARMED FORCES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     improving the administration by the Department of Defense and 
     the Department of Veterans Affairs of contracted health care 
     networks and to improve the adminstration by the Department 
     of Veterans Affairs of health care generally, which may 
     include the management of claims, by the amounts provided in 
     such legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1155. Mr. McCAIN (for himself and Mrs. Gillibrand) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO REDUCING 
                   ADDICTION TO OPIOIDS BY IMPOSING STRICTER 
                   PRESCRIBING GUIDELINES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     reducing addiction to opioids by imposing stricter 
     prescribing guidelines, which may include a 7-day supply 
     limit in certain circumstances, by the amounts provided in 
     such legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1156. Mr. McCAIN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3__. SPENDING-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO IMPROVING 
                   FOREST HEALTH.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     increasing timber production from Federal land and providing 
     bridge funding to counties and other units of local 
     government until timber production levels increase, 
     decreasing forest hazardous fuel loads, improving stewardship 
     contracting, or reforming the process of budgeting for 
     wildfire suppression operations by the amounts provided in 
     such legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not raise new revenue and would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1157. Mr. McCAIN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to

[[Page S6545]]

amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO THE 
                   MAINTENANCE BACKLOG OF THE NATIONAL PARK 
                   SERVICE.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to the 
     maintenance, repair, or improvement of infrastructure in 
     units of the National Park System by the amounts provided in 
     such legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1158. Mr. McCAIN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO THE 
                   EXPANSION OF EDUCATION OPPORTUNITIES FOR NATIVE 
                   AMERICAN CHILDREN.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to the 
     funding of charter schools by the Bureau of Indian Education, 
     distance learning programs, and school opportunity 
     scholarships, by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1159. Mr. McCAIN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   TERMINATING THE CATFISH INSPECTION PROGRAM OF 
                   THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     terminating the catfish inspection program of the Department 
     of Agriculture and returning the role of catfish inspection 
     to the Food and Drug Administration, by the amounts provided 
     in such legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1160. Mr. McCAIN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO ENSURING 
                   THAT VETERANS HAVE THE ACCESS AND ABILITY TO 
                   CHOOSE THEIR HEALTH CARE BASED ON THE BEST 
                   POSSIBLE HEALTH CARE TREATMENT AVAILABLE TO THE 
                   VETERAN.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     ensuring that veterans can access the best possible health 
     care treatment, which may include improving the Veterans 
     Choice Program, by the amounts provided in such legislation 
     for those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1161. Mr. CARDIN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST ANY TAX BILL THAT WOULD 
                   RAISE TAXES ON BUSINESSES THAT HIRE VETERANS, 
                   ACTIVE SERVICE MEMBERS, OR THE LONG-TERM 
                   UNEMPLOYED.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that 
     repeals or limits the work opportunity tax credit under 
     section 51 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1162. Mr. CARDIN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST ANY TAX BILL THAT REPEALS 
                   THE TAX EXCLUSION FOR INTEREST ON STATE AND 
                   LOCAL BONDS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that 
     repeals the tax exclusion for interest on state and local 
     bonds under section 103 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1163. Mr. CARDIN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST ANY TAX BILL THAT WOULD 
                   RAISE TAXES ON HOMEOWNERS BY ELIMINATING OR 
                   LIMITING THE MORTGAGE INTEREST DEDUCTION.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that 
     repeals or limits the mortgage interest deduction under 
     section 163 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1164. Mrs. SHAHEEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

[[Page S6546]]

  


     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO PRE-
                   PREPARED TAX RETURNS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     encouraging the Secretary of the Treasury to provide pre-
     prepared tax returns to as many taxpayers as possible, by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1165. Mrs. SHAHEEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO TAX 
                   INCENTIVES TO ENCOURAGE THE CREATION OF 
                   RESIDENT-OWNED COOPERATIVES FOR MANUFACTURED 
                   HOME COMMUNITIES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to tax 
     incentives, such as a 75 percent income tax credit for the 
     owners of manufactured home communities, to encourage the 
     sale of such communities to residents and the creation of 
     resident-owned cooperatives, by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1166. Mr. DAINES submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   ESTABLISHING A SINGLE PAYER HEALTH CARE SYSTEM.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     establishing a single payer health care system, which may 
     include a Medicare-for-all national health insurance program, 
     by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1167. Mr. PERDUE (for himself and Mr. Whitehouse) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   SIGNIFICANTLY IMPROVING THE BUDGET PROCESS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     significantly improving the budget process by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1168. Mr. MARKEY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO THE 
                   RESPONSE TO ILLICIT FENTANYL INTO THE UNITED 
                   STATES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to the 
     response by States to illicit fentanyl and other synthetic 
     opioids, including the treatment of individuals harmed by 
     fentanyl and other synthetic opioids, and the efforts of the 
     United States Government to detect and interdict illicit 
     fentanyl and other synthetic opioids being trafficked into 
     the United States, by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1169. Mr. MARKEY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4___. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD 
                   INCREASE THE COSTS OF FINANCING FOR STATE AND 
                   LOCAL GOVERNMENT PROJECTS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     increase the costs of financing for State and local 
     government projects, including by repealing the tax exclusion 
     for interest on State and local bonds.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1170. Mr. MARKEY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD 
                   INCREASE OUT-OF-POCKET COSTS OR REDUCE ACCESS 
                   TO TREATMENT, INCLUDING MEDICATION-ASSISTED 
                   TREATMENT, FOR AMERICANS SUFFERING FROM AN 
                   OPIOID USE DISORDER.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     increase out-of-pocket costs or reduce access to treatment, 
     including medication-assisted treatment, for Americans 
     suffering from an opioid use disorder.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1171. Mr. MARKEY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

[[Page S6547]]

  


     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD 
                   DECREASE ACCESS TO THE PRIVATE SECTOR 
                   RETIREMENT SYSTEM AND TO MEANINGFUL SAVINGS 
                   INCENTIVES.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     decrease access to the private sector retirement system and 
     to meaningful savings incentives.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1172. Mr. NELSON (for himself, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Menendez, Mrs. 
Gillibrand, Ms. Harris, and Mr. Murphy) submitted an amendment intended 
to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the 
concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional 
budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 2018 and 
setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 
through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND TO PROVIDE MEDICAID 
                   AND CHIP FISCAL RELIEF FOR TEXAS, FLORIDA, 
                   PUERTO RICO AND OTHER UNITED STATES TERRITORIES 
                   IMPACTED BY HURRICANE HARVEY, HURRICANE IRMA OR 
                   HURRICANE MARIA.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     providing fiscal relief through the Medicaid and Children's 
     Health Insurance Programs for Texas, Florida, Puerto Rico and 
     other United States territories impacted by Hurricane Harvey, 
     Hurricane Irma, or Hurricane Maria, including by increasing 
     both the Federal medical assistance percentage and the 
     enhanced FMAP for fiscal year 2018 for such States and 
     territories to 100 percent and by increasing the total amount 
     certified by the Secretary of Health and Human Services under 
     section 1108 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1308) for 
     payments to Puerto Rico and the other territories under title 
     XIX of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.) for fiscal year 
     2018, by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1173. Mr. CASEY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 24, line 11, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 24, line 12, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 24, line 15, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 24, line 16, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 24, line 19, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 24, line 20, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 24, line 23, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 24, line 24, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 25, line 2, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 25, line 3, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 25, line 6, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 25, line 7, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 25, line 10, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 25, line 11, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 25, line 14, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 25, line 15, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 25, line 18, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 25, line 19, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 25, line 22, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 25, line 23, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 4, line 25, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 5, line 1, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 5, line 2, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 5, line 3, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 5, line 4, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 5, line 5, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 5, line 6, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 5, line 7, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 5, line 8, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 5, line 9, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 5, line 13, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 5, line 14, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 5, line 15, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 5, line 16, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 5, line 17, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 5, line 18, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000..
       On page 5, line 19, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 5, line 20, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 5, line 21, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 5, line 22, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 3, line 12, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 3, line 13, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 4, line 1, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 4, line 2, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 4, line 3, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 4, line 4, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 4, line 5, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 4, line 6, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 4, line 7, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 4, line 8, increase the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 4, line 12, decrease the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 4, line 13, decrease the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 4, line 14, decrease the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 4, line 15,decrease the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 4, line 16, decrease the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 4, line 17, decrease the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 4, line 18, decrease the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 4, line 19, decrease the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 4, line 20, decrease the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 4, line 21, decrease the amount by $4,500,000,000.
       On page 47, line 6, reduce the amount by $45,000,000,000.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1174. Mr. VAN HOLLEN submitted an amendment intended to be 
proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent 
resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST TAX INCREASES ON LOW-INCOME 
                   AND MIDDLE-CLASS FAMILIES.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that 
     impose a tax increase on low-income or middle-class families, 
     including through a reduction in refundable tax credits.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1175. Mr. VAN HOLLEN submitted an amendment intended to be 
proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent 
resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION DECREASING TAXES 
                   TO HOUSEHOLDS IN THE TOP 1 PERCENT OF INCOME.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill,

[[Page S6548]]

     joint resolution, motion, amendment, amendment between the 
     Houses, or conference report pursuant to section 2001 that 
     provides any net tax cuts to households in the top 1 percent 
     of income.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1176. Mr. CARDIN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PROHIBITING AN EXHIBITION OR PARADE OF MILITARY 
                   FORCES AND HARDWARE FOR REVIEW BY THE PRESIDENT 
                   IN ORDER TO DEMONSTRATE MILITARY FORCE OUTSIDE 
                   OF AUTHORIZED MILITARY OPERATIONS OR 
                   ACTIVITIES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     prohibiting an exhibition or parade of military forces and 
     hardware for review by the President in order to demonstrate 
     military force outside of authorized military operations or 
     activities by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1177. Mr. CARDIN (for himself and Mr. Markey) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST ANY TAX BILL THAT REPEALS 
                   INCENTIVES THAT PROMOTE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 
                   AND INVESTMENT IN ECONOMICALLY DISTRESSED 
                   COMMUNITIES.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that 
     repeals the low-income housing credit under section 42 of the 
     Internal Revenue Code of 1986, the new markets tax credit 
     under section 45D of such Code, or the historic tax credit 
     program.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1178. Mr. FLAKE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO MAKING 
                   THE AMERICAN TAX SYSTEM SIMPLER AND FAIRER FOR 
                   ALL AMERICANS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     changes in Federal tax laws, which may include provisions to 
     make the American tax system simpler and fairer for all 
     Americans, by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1179. Mr. McCAIN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO THE 
                   EXPANSION OF EDUCATION OPPORTUNITIES FOR NATIVE 
                   AMERICAN CHILDREN.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to the 
     funding of tribally-operated education savings accounts, 
     charter schools, and distance learning programs by the Bureau 
     of Indian Education, by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1180. Mr. PERDUE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   ELIMINATING DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUNDS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     eliminating deficit-neutral reserve funds by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1181. Mr. PERDUE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO ENSURING 
                   THAT THE SOCIAL SECURITY TRUST FUNDS STAY 
                   SOLVENT BY INSTITUTING MUCH NEEDED REFORMS TO 
                   THE BENEFITS FORMULA AND THE FUNDING STREAMS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     ensuring that the Social Security trust funds established 
     under section 201 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 401) 
     stay solvent by instituting much needed reforms to the Social 
     Security benefits formulas and funding streams by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1182. Mrs. CAPITO submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table, as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND

     RELATING TO TAX RELIEF FOR HARD-WORKING MIDDLE-CLASS 
                   AMERICANS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments

[[Page S6549]]

     between the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating 
     to changes in Federal tax laws, which may include reducing 
     federal deductions, such as the state and local tax deduction 
     for high-income individuals, to ensure relief for middle-
     income taxpayers, by the amounts provided in such legislation 
     for those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1183. Mr. HOEVEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND TO EXTEND THE REFINED 
                   COAL TAX CREDIT FOR NEW AND EXISTING FACILITIES 
                   AND TO CREATE OPPORTUNITY FOR NOT-FOR-PROFIT 
                   ELECTRICITY GENERATORS TO MONETIZE THE TAX 
                   CREDIT DIRECTLY.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to the 
     refined coal tax credit, which may include extending and 
     monetizing the credit, by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1184. Mr. HOEVEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO PROVIDING 
                   TAX RELIEF FOR FARMERS AND RANCHERS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     providing tax relief for farmers and ranchers, by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1185. Mr. HOEVEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO PROVIDING 
                   REGULATORY RELIEF FOR COMMUNITY BANKS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     providing regulatory relief for community banks by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1186. Mr. HOEVEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO EXPANDING 
                   RURAL BROADBAND TO CLOSE THE DIGITAL DIVIDE.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     expanding rural broadband to close the digital divide by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1187. Mr. HOEVEN (for himself and Mr. Wyden) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO EXPANDING 
                   TAX-EXEMPT PRIVATE ACTIVITY BONDS AND CREATING 
                   INVESTMENT TAX CREDITS FOR INFRASTRUCTURE 
                   PROJECTS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     infrastructure financing, which may include expanding tax-
     exempt private activity bonds and creating investment tax 
     credits, by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1188. Mr. HOEVEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   SUPPORTING PROGRAMS RELATED TO THE NUCLEAR 
                   MISSIONS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AND THE 
                   NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     supporting programs related to the nuclear missions of the 
     Department of Defense and the National Nuclear Security 
     Administration, by the amounts provided in such legislation 
     for those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1189. Mr. WYDEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       Strike section 3001 and insert the following:

     SEC. 3001. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND TO PROTECT AND 
                   IMPROVE AFFORDABLE HEALTH CARE FOR ALL.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     expanding affordable health care for all Americans, including 
     by preserving and improving the Affordable Care Act, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1190. Mr. WYDEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to

[[Page S6550]]

amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       Strike section 3001.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1191. Mr. WYDEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND TO IMPROVE SOCIAL 
                   SECURITY PROGRAM INTEGRITY BY INCREASING 
                   TARGETED DENIAL REVIEWS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     improvements to program integrity funding, including measures 
     to accommodate the addition of target denial reviews by the 
     Social Security Administration, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1192. Mr. WYDEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST RECONCILIATION INSTRUCTIONS 
                   THAT WOULD INCREASE THE DEFICIT.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report relating 
     to a reconciliation bill that would increase the deficit over 
     the budget window.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1193. Mr. WYDEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       Strike section 4111.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1194. Mr. WYDEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       Strike sections 2001 and 2002.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1195. Mr. WYDEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST TAX REFORM LEGISLATION THAT 
                   RELIES ON SCORES AND DISTRIBUTIONAL TABLES NOT 
                   PRODUCED FROM THE JOINT COMMITTEE ON TAXATION 
                   AND THE CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that 
     amends the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and uses scores or 
     distribution tables not produced by the Joint Committee on 
     Taxation or the Congressional Budget Office.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1196. Mr. WYDEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST TAX REFORM LEGISLATION THAT 
                   VIOLATES THE MNUCHIN RULE.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that 
     amends the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and provides an 
     absolute tax cut for tax returns in the top 1 percent of 
     income.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1197. Mr. WYDEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO THE 
                   RELEASE OF TAX RETURNS OF THE PRESIDENT.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to public 
     disclosure of the individual tax returns of the President, by 
     the amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1198. Mr. WYDEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST TAX REFORM LEGISLATION THAT 
                   RAISES LESS REVENUE THAN CURRENT LAW.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that 
     amends the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and results in less 
     revenue than current law over the budget window as scored by 
     the Joint Committee on Taxation and the Congressional Budget 
     Office.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1199. Mr. WYDEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027;

[[Page S6551]]

which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST TAX REFORM LEGISLATION NOT 
                   CONSIDERED THROUGH REGULAR ORDER IN THE HOUSE 
                   AND SENATE.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that 
     amends the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 without hearings and 
     mark-ups in both the Committee on Ways and Means of the House 
     of Representatives and the Committee on Finance of the 
     Senate.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1200. Mr. WYDEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST TAX REFORM LEGISLATION THAT 
                   IS LESS PROGRESSIVE THAN CURRENT LAW.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that 
     amends the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and results in a tax 
     code that is less progressive than current law.
       (b) Determination of Whether Code Is Less Progressive.--For 
     purposes of this section, a measure described in subsection 
     (a) results in a tax code that is less progressive than 
     current law if, after the measure takes effect--
       (1) the percentage increase in after-tax income for tax 
     returns in higher income groups, including the top 10 
     percent, top 5 percent, top 1 percent, and top 0.1 percent, 
     is greater than the percentage increase in after-tax income 
     for tax returns in lower income groups; or
       (2) the percentage decrease in after-tax income for tax 
     returns in higher income groups, including the top 10 
     percent, top 5 percent, top 1 percent, and top 0.1 percent, 
     is less than the percentage decrease in after-tax income for 
     tax returns in lower income groups.

     The determinations made under paragraph (1) and (2) shall be 
     based on distribution tables produced by the Joint Committee 
     on Taxation.
       (c) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1201. Mr. WYDEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO THE 
                   RELEASE OF TAX RETURNS OF THE PRESIDENT.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to public 
     disclosure of the individual tax returns of the President, by 
     the amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1202. Mr. WYDEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO PROVIDING 
                   TECHNOLOGY-NEUTRAL TAX CREDITS FOR CLEAN 
                   ENERGY.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     providing long-term, technology-neutral tax incentives for 
     clean energy, by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1203. Mr. WYDEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST TAX REFORM LEGISLATION THAT 
                   DOES NOT INCLUDE A COMPLETE REVENUE SCORE AND A 
                   DISTRIBUTION TABLE.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that 
     amends the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and for which there 
     is not a complete revenue score over the budget window and a 
     table of the distributional effects produced by the Joint 
     Committee on Taxation and the Congressional Budget Office.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1204. Mr. WYDEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST RECONCILIATION BILLS THAT 
                   WOULD INCREASE THE DEFICIT.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any reconciliation bill reported under section 
     310 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 641) 
     that would increase the deficit during the period of the 
     budget year and the ensuing 9 fiscal years following the 
     budget year.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1205. Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Mr. Lee) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to 
the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO TAX CUTS 
                   FOR WORKING AMERICAN FAMILIES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     increasing per-child Federal tax relief, which may include 
     amending the child tax credit, by the amounts provided in 
     such legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1206. Mr. HELLER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to

[[Page S6552]]

amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PRIORITIZING THE CONSTRUCTION OF INFRASTRUCTURE 
                   PROJECTS OF REGIONAL OR NATIONAL IMPORTANCE AND 
                   PROJECTS IN HIGH PRIORITY CORRIDORS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     prioritizing Federal investments in the infrastructure of the 
     United States on projects of regional or national 
     significance and projects in high priority corridors on the 
     National Highway System by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1207. Mr. HELLER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PRIORITIZING PROGRAMS AND POLICIES THAT 
                   FACILITATE DOMESTIC AND INTERNATIONAL TRAVEL 
                   AND TOURISM WITHIN THE UNITED STATES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     prioritizing programs and policies that facilitate domestic 
     and international travel and tourism within the United States 
     by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1208. Mr. HELLER (for himself and Mr. Tester) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PREVENTING VETERAN SUICIDE.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     preventing veteran suicide, which may include improving 
     mental health programs and outreach efforts of the Department 
     of Veterans Affairs, hiring more mental health care 
     professionals for the Department, or ensuring quality and 
     timely access to mental health care for all veterans by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1209. Mr. HELLER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND TO COMBAT TERRORISM.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to grants 
     combating terrorism, which may include consideration of the 
     dependence on tourism as a factor in rating systems, by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1210. Mr. HELLER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

     SEC. __. SENSE OF THE SENATE ON PAY FOR MEMBERS OF CONGRESS 
                   IF THE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET AND 
                   APPROPRIATIONS ARE NOT COMPLETED IN A TIMELY 
                   MANNER.

       It is the sense of the Senate that--
       (1) both Houses of Congress should approve a concurrent 
     resolution on the budget and all the regular appropriations 
     bills before October 1 of each fiscal year;
       (2) if a concurrent resolution on the budget and all the 
     regular appropriations bills are not approved by October 1 of 
     each fiscal year, no funds should be appropriated or 
     otherwise be made available from the Treasury of the United 
     States for the pay of any Member of Congress during any 
     period after October 1 that a concurrent resolution on the 
     budget and all the regular appropriations bills are not 
     completed; and
       (3) no retroactive pay should be provided to any Member of 
     Congress for any period for which pay is not made available 
     as described in paragraph (2).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1211. Mrs. MURRAY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
by her to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       Strike section 3010 and insert the following:

     SEC. 3010. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND FOR SERVICEMEMBERS 
                   AND VETERANS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, motions, or 
     conference reports relating to--
       (1) eligibility for both military retired pay and veterans' 
     disability compensation (concurrent receipt);
       (2) the reduction or elimination of the offset between 
     Survivor Benefit Plan annuities and Veterans' Dependency and 
     Indemnity Compensation;
       (3) the improvement of disability benefits or the process 
     of evaluating and adjudicating benefit claims for members of 
     the Armed Forces or veterans;
       (4) the infrastructure needs of the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs, including constructing or leasing space, to include 
     leases of major medical facilities, and maintenance of 
     Department facilities;
       (5) supporting the transition of members of the Armed 
     Forces to the civilian workforce, including by expanding or 
     improving education, job training, and workforce development 
     benefits, or other programs for members of the Armed Forces 
     or veterans, which may include streamlining the process 
     associated with Federal and State credentialing requirements;
       (6) improving access to and reducing wait times for 
     Department of Veterans Affairs health care, including through 
     hiring medical providers, fully staffing emergency 
     departments, and improving the quality of such care;
       (7) reforming and improving authorities of the Department 
     of Veterans Affairs to provide health care through non-
     Department facilities or providers and equally investing in 
     improvements and expansions to the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs health care system; or
       (8) providing or improving specialty services, including 
     mental health care, homeless services, gender specific health 
     care, fertility treatment, and support for caregivers;
     by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1212. Mrs. MURRAY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to

[[Page S6553]]

amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 3, line 12, increase the amount by $216,000,000.
       On page 3, line 13, increase the amount by $3,406,000,000.
       On page 4, line 1, increase the amount by $5,256,000,000.
       On page 4, line 2, increase the amount by $5,767,000,000.
       On page 4, line 3, increase the amount by $3,161,000,000.
       On page 4 line 4, increase the amount by $1,843,000,000.
       On page 4, line 5, increase the amount by $1,181,000,000.
       On page 4, line 6, increase the amount by $619,000,000.
       On page 4, line 7, increase the amount by $94,000,000.
       On page 4, line 8, increase the amount by $57,000,000.
       On page 4, line 12, decrease the amount by $216,000,000.
       On page 4, line 13, decrease the amount by $3,406,000,000.
       On page 4, line 14, decrease the amount by $5,256,000,000.
       On page 4, line 15, decrease the amount by $5,767,000,000.
       On page 4, line 16, decrease the amount by $3,161,000,000.
       On page 4, line 17, decrease the amount by $1,843,000,000.
       On page 4, line 18, decrease the amount by $1,181,000,000.
       On page 4, line 19, decrease the amount by $619,000,000.
       On page 4, line 20, decrease the amount by $94,000,000.
       On page 4, line 21, decrease the amount by $57,000,000.
       On page 4, line 25, increase the amount by $7,200,000,000.
       On page 5, line 1, increase the amount by $7,200,000,000.
       On page 5, line 2, increase the amount by $7,200,000,000.
       On page 5, line 13, increase the amount by $216,000,000.
       On page 5, line 14, increase the amount by $3,406,000,000.
       On page 5, line 15, increase the amount by $5,256,000,000.
       On page 5, line 16, increase the amount by $5,767,000,000.
       On page 5, line 17, increase the amount by $3,161,000,000.
       On page 5, line 18, increase the amount by $1,843,000,000.
       On page 5, line 19, increase the amount by $1,181,000,000.
       On page 5, line 20, increase the amount by $619,000,000.
       On page 5, line 21, increase the amount by $94,000,000.
       On page 5, line 22, increase the amount by $57,000,000.
       On page 31, line 2, increase the amount by $7,200,000,000.
       On page 31, line 3, increase the amount by $216,000,000.
       On page 31, line 6, increase the amount by $7,200,000,000.
       On page 31, line 7, increase the amount by $3,406,000,000.
       On page 31, line 10, increase the amount by $7,200,000,000.
       On page 31, line 11, increase the amount by $5,256,000,000.
       On page 31, line 15, increase the amount by $5,767,000,000.
       On page 31, line 19, increase the amount by $3,161,000,000.
       On page 31, line 23, increase the amount by $1,843,000,000.
       On page 32, line 3, increase the amount by $1,181,000,000.
       On page 32, line 7, increase the amount by $619,000,000.
       On page 32, line 11, increase the amount by $94,000,000.
       On page 32, line 15, increase the amount by $57,000,000.
       On page 47, line 6, decrease the amount by $21,600,000,000.
       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

     SEC. __. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND FOR REFORM OF CARE IN 
                   NON-DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS FACILITIES 
                   OR PROVIDERS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, motions, or 
     conference reports related to reforming and improving 
     authorities of the Department of Veterans Affairs to provide 
     health care through non-Department facilities or providers 
     and equally investing in improvements and expansions to the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs health care system by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1213. Mr. HOEVEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO PROVIDING 
                   FOR ADDITIONAL HEALTHCARE PROFESSIONALS AT THE 
                   INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to the 
     Indian Health Service, which may include providing for 
     additional healthcare professionals, by the amounts provided 
     in such legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1214. Mr. HOEVEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO STUDYING 
                   THE TRAFFICKING OF OPIOIDS AT THE NORTHERN 
                   BORDER.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     studying the trafficking of opioids at the Norther Border by 
     the amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1215. Mr. McCAIN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST INCREASES IN DISCRETIONARY 
                   SPENDING LIMITS FOR THE REVISED SECURITY 
                   CATEGORY AND THE REVISED NONSECURITY CATEGORY 
                   BY EQUAL AMOUNTS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that 
     increases the discretionary spending limits established under 
     section 251(c) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901(c)) for the revised 
     security category and the revised nonsecurity category by 
     equal amounts.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1216. Mr. HOEVEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO IMPROVING 
                   THE FAIRNESS OF THE CALCULATIONS OF AGRICULTURE 
                   RISK COVERAGE COUNTY COVERAGE PAYMENTS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this

[[Page S6554]]

     resolution, and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to improving the fairness of the calculations of 
     agriculture risk coverage county coverage payments by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1217. Mr. HOEVEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO EXPANDING 
                   THE CATEGORIES OF LIVESTOCK LOSSES COVERED BY 
                   THE EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE FOR LIVESTOCK, HONEY 
                   BEES, AND FARM-RAISED FISH PROGRAM OF THE FARM 
                   SERVICE AGENCY.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     expanding the categories of livestock losses covered by the 
     emergency assistance for livestock, honey bees, and farm-
     raised fish program of the Farm Service Agency to include the 
     cost of transporting feed and livestock by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1218. Mr. HOEVEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   INCREASING FUNDING FOR THE EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE 
                   FOR LIVESTOCK, HONEY BEES, AND FARM-RAISED FISH 
                   PROGRAM OF THE FARM SERVICE AGENCY.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     increasing funding for the emergency assistance for 
     livestock, honey bees, and farm-raised fish program of the 
     Farm Service Agency by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1219. Mr. HOEVEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO DISASTER 
                   ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS OF THE FARM SERVICE AGENCY.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to the 
     disaster assistance programs of the Farm Service Agency by 
     the amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1220. Mr. BLUMENTHAL submitted an amendment intended to be 
proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent 
resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 57, strike lines 1 through 3 and insert the 
     following:
     icit over the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1221. Ms. HARRIS (for herself and Mrs. Feinstein) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO ENSURING 
                   PUBLIC AND INDIVIDUAL ASSISTANCE, HOUSING 
                   RELIEF, CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE REPAIRS, 
                   AGRICULTURAL ASSISTANCE, AND OTHER RECOVERY AID 
                   FUNDING FOR THE VICTIMS OF THE CALIFORNIA 
                   WILDFIRES MAJOR DISASTER THAT BEGAN ON OCTOBER 
                   8, 2017.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     ensuring public and individual assistance, housing relief, 
     critical infrastructure repairs, agricultural assistance, and 
     other recovery aid funding for the victims of the California 
     wildfires major disaster that began on October 8, 2017 by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1222. Mr. BENNET submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   INCREASING THE HIGHEST TAX RATE TO OFFSET ANY 
                   INCREASE IN THE DEFICIT RESULTING FROM OTHER 
                   TAX LEGISLATION.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to an 
     automatic increase in the highest tax rate under the Internal 
     Revenue Code of 1986 in order to offset any changes to such 
     Code which increase the deficit within 10 years of taking 
     effect, by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1223. Mr. BENNET submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD MAKE 
                   THE TAX CODE LESS PROGRESSIVE.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     make the income tax code under the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 less progressive by decreasing the tax burden paid by 
     the 1 percent of taxpayers with the highest income, as 
     measured either on an absolute basis or as a percentage of 
     the total tax burden.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall

[[Page S6555]]

     be required to sustain an appeal of the ruling of the Chair 
     on a point of order raised under subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1224. Mr. BENNET submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD NOT 
                   BE THE BIGGEST MIDDLE CLASS TAX CUT IN HISTORY.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     not be the biggest middle class tax cut ever enacted in the 
     United States, based on a distributional analysis and score 
     by the Joint Committee on Taxation and measured either as a 
     share of the gross domestic product or as a percentage of the 
     total tax burden (determined by defining ``middle class'' as 
     all income deciles above the lowest 20 percent and below the 
     highest 10 percent).
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1225. Mr. BENNET submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD 
                   INCREASE TAXES ON MORE THAN 10 PERCENT OF 
                   TAXPAYERS BELOW THE TOP DECILE OF INCOME.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     increase taxes on more than 10 percent of the taxpayers not 
     in the highest decile of income.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1226. Mr. BENNET submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD MAKE 
                   ANY CHANGES TO THE TAX CODE IF THE PRESIDENT 
                   HAS NOT RELEASED TAX RETURNS FOR THE PRECEDING 
                   5 YEARS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     make any changes to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, unless 
     the President has released tax returns for at least the 
     preceding 5 taxable years to demonstrate the effects of any 
     such legislation on lowering the tax burden of taxpayers like 
     the President.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1227. Mr. McCAIN (for himself and Ms. Klobuchar) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO LOWERING 
                   THE COST OF PRESCRIPTION DRUGS IN THE UNITED 
                   STATES BY IMPORTING DRUGS FROM CANADA.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     lowering the cost of prescription drugs in the United States 
     by importing drugs from Canada, by the amounts provided in 
     such legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1228. Ms. HEITKAMP (for herself, Ms. Harris, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Udall, 
Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Sanders, Mr. Casey, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. Van Hollen, and 
Ms. Hassan) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to amendment 
SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 
71, establishing the congressional budget for the United States 
Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate 
budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered 
to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST RAISING TAXES ON TAXPAYERS 
                   WHOSE ANNUAL INCOME IS BELOW $250,000.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that 
     raises taxes on taxpayers whose annual income is below 
     $250,000.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1229. Ms. HEITKAMP (for herself and Mr. Whitehouse) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO CARBON 
                   CAPTURE, STORAGE, AND UTILIZATION TECHNOLOGY.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     support for carbon capture, utilization, and storage 
     technology and reducing greenhouse gas emissions, which may 
     include expanding section 45Q of the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 and establishing other incentives for implementation of 
     carbon capture, storage, and utilization technology on 
     carbon-emitting facilities and the development of additional 
     carbon utilization technologies, by the amounts provided in 
     such legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1230. Mr. MURPHY (for himself, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. Van Hollen, and 
Mr. Markey) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to amendment 
SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 
71, establishing the congressional budget for the United States 
Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate 
budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered 
to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3__. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PROHIBITING THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE 
                   PRESIDENTIAL PROCLAMATION ISSUED ON SEPTEMBER 
                   24, 2017.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills,

[[Page S6556]]

     joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between the Houses, 
     motions, or conference reports relating to prohibiting the 
     implementation of the presidential proclamation issued on 
     September 24, 2017, by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1231. Mr. MURPHY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PROHIBITING SIGNIFICANT REORGANIZATION OF THE 
                   DEPARTMENT OF STATE ABSENT SPECIFIC 
                   CONGRESSIONAL AUTHORIZATION.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     ensuring that the Secretary of State shall not be permitted 
     to undertake any significant reorganization of the Department 
     of State that involves consolidation, streamlining, transfer, 
     or elimination of bureaus, offices, or functions within the 
     Department, absent specific authorization from Congress, by 
     the amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1232. Mr. MURPHY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   INCREASING TRANSPARENCY WITH REGARD TO WAIVERS 
                   TO THE BUY AMERICAN ACT, THE BERRY AMENDMENT, 
                   THE BUY AMERICA ACT, AND SECTION 2533B OF TITLE 
                   10, UNITED STATES CODE.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     increasing transparency with regard to waivers to the Buy 
     American Act (chapter 83 of title 41, United States Code), 
     the Berry Amendment (section 2533a of title 10, United States 
     Code), the Buy America Act (section 5323(j) of title 49, 
     United States Code), and section 2533b of title 10, United 
     States Code, by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1233. Mr. MANCHIN (for himself and Mr. Wyden) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST ANY TAX BILL THAT WOULD 
                   PRESERVE THE CARRIED INTEREST LOOPHOLE.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that 
     preserves the preferential tax treatment of carried interest 
     income.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1234. Mr. DONNELLY (for himself, Ms. Baldwin, and Mrs. Gillibrand) 
submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 
proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, 
establishing the congressional budget for the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the 
table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST ANY TAX BILL ALLOWING 
                   COMPANIES THAT HAVE OUTSOURCED JOBS TO FOREIGN 
                   COUNTRIES TO BENEFIT FROM ANY TAX BREAKS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that 
     permits companies which have outsourced jobs to foreign 
     countries to benefit from any tax breaks.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1235. Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Murphy, 
and Mr. Schumer) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   CONSERVATION OF PLUM ISLAND, NEW YORK.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to the 
     conservation of Plum Island, Town of Southold, New York, by 
     the amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1236. Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself, Mr. Blumenthal, and Mr. 
Murphy) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 
1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, 
establishing the congressional budget for the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the 
table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO THE 
                   CONSERVATION AND STEWARDSHIP OF THE LONG ISLAND 
                   SOUND.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to the 
     conservation and stewardship of the Long Island Sound by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1237. Mr. LANKFORD submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       Strike subparagraphs (A) through (C) of section 4012(b)(2) 
     and insert the following:
       (A) for fiscal year 2018, $8,500,000,000;
       (B) for fiscal year 2019, $0; and
       (C) for fiscal year 2020, $0.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1238. Mr. HOEVEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States

[[Page S6557]]

Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate 
budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered 
to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO DROUGHT 
                   RELIEF.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     drought relief by the amounts provided in such legislation 
     for those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1239. Mr. HOEVEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO FEDERAL 
                   CROP INSURANCE.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     Federal crop insurance by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1240. Mr. HOEVEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO RURAL 
                   DEVELOPMENT.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to rural 
     development by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1241. Mr. HOEVEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     agricultural research by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1242. Mr. DAINES submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO HOLDING 
                   MEMBERS OF THE SENATE AND THE HOUSE OF 
                   REPRESENTATIVES ACCOUNTABLE FOR FAILING TO PASS 
                   A BALANCED BUDGET.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     holding Members of the Senate and the House of 
     Representatives accountable for failing to pass a balanced 
     budget by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1243. Mr. YOUNG (for himself and Mr. Rubio) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to 
the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO PROVIDING 
                   THE FRAMEWORK NECESSARY FOR INNOVATIVE 
                   FINANCING OPTIONS FOR STUDENTS TO FUND 
                   POSTSECONDARY EDUCATION.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     providing the framework necessary for innovative financing 
     options for students to fund postsecondary education by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1244. Mr. YOUNG submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 53, line 17, insert ``, which may include 
     improvements to career and technical education'' before the 
     semicolon.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1245. Mr. YOUNG (for himself and Mr. Manchin) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO ENSURING 
                   ACCOUNTABILITY FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     ensuring accountability for the Department of Education by 
     the amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1246. Mr. BOOKER (for himself and Mr. Van Hollen) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:


[[Page S6558]]


  

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PROTECTING TAXPAYERS AND FEDERAL INVESTMENTS 
                   AND ENSURING HUMAN SAFETY FROM FORESEEABLE 
                   FLOOD DISASTERS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to any 
     steps necessary to ensure that Federal infrastructure 
     investments are adequately protected from foreseeable flood 
     disasters and are located or constructed in a manner to 
     minimize avoidable taxpayer losses and unnecessary risk to 
     human safety by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1247. Mr. BOOKER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD 
                   DECREASE FUNDING FOR THE BUREAU OF THE CENSUS 
                   OR ANY OF ITS PROGRAMS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     decrease funding for the Bureau of the Census or any of its 
     programs.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1248. Mr. BOOKER (for himself, Mr. Coons, and Mr. Blumenthal) 
submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 
proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, 
establishing the congressional budget for the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the 
table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   INCREASING FEDERAL INVESTMENTS IN THE NATIONAL 
                   RAILROAD PASSENGER CORPORATION.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     Federal investments in the National Railroad Passenger 
     Corporation by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1249. Mr. KAINE (for himself, Mr. Warner, Mr. King, Mr. Wyden, 
Mrs. Murray, Ms. Harris, Mr. Cardin, and Mr. Bennet) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       On page 83, strike lines 12 through 15, and insert the 
     following:

     SEC. 4111. REPEAL OF CERTAIN LIMITATIONS.

       Section 3206 of S. Con. Res. 11 (114th Congress), the 
     concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2016, is 
     repealed.

     SEC. 4112. PROHIBITION ON AGREEING TO CERTAIN AMENDMENTS TO 
                   LEGISLATION WITHOUT A SCORE IN THE SENATE.

       (a) In General.--In the Senate, it shall not be in order to 
     vote on the adoption of a covered amendment to a bill or 
     resolution that requires an estimate under section 402 of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 653), unless an 
     estimate described in such section 402 for the covered 
     amendment was made publicly available on the website of the 
     Congressional Budget Office not later than 28 hours before 
     the time the vote commences.
       (b) Covered Amendment Defined.--In this section, the term 
     ``covered amendment'' means an amendment in the nature of a 
     substitute.
       (c) Supermajority Waiver and Appeal.--
       (1) Waiver.--In the Senate, subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended only by an affirmative vote of three-fifths of the 
     Members, duly chosen and sworn.
       (2) Appeal.--An affirmative vote of three-fifths of the 
     Members of the Senate, duly chosen and sworn, shall be 
     required to sustain an appeal of the ruling of the Chair on a 
     point of order raised under subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1250. Ms. KLOBUCHAR submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3__. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO TRAINING 
                   TO SUPPORT THE RECOGNITION AND REPORTING OF 
                   HUMAN TRAFFICKING.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     training to support the recognition and reporting of human 
     trafficking by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1251. Ms. KLOBUCHAR submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO IMPROVING 
                   RURAL CALL QUALITY AND COMPLETION RATES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     improving rural telephone call quality and completion rates 
     by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1252. Ms. KLOBUCHAR submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO SPORTS-
                   THEMED ACADEMIC PROGRAMMING FOR BEFORE- AND 
                   AFTER-SCHOOL PROGRAMS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     developing best practices for sports-themed academic 
     programming for before- and after-school programs and making 
     such programming available online in a user-friendly format, 
     by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1253. Ms. KLOBUCHAR submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States

[[Page S6559]]

Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate 
budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered 
to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   SUPPORTING CHILD CARE WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT OR 
                   THE CREATION, RENOVATION, OR EXPANSION OF CHILD 
                   CARE FACILITIES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports, relating to 
     providing grants on a competitive basis to States to support 
     child care workforce development or the establishment, 
     renovation, or expansion of child care facilities in child 
     care deserts, by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1254. Ms. KLOBUCHAR submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO EXPANDING 
                   THE USE OF SAVINGS ACCOUNTS FOR EDUCATION.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     expanding the use of education savings accounts to add 
     workforce development training and credentialing programs, by 
     the amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1255. Ms. KLOBUCHAR submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PERMANENTLY ESTABLISHING MYRA ACCOUNTS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     permanently establishing the MyRA savings account program, by 
     the amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1256. Ms. KLOBUCHAR submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO THE 
                   EFFECTIVE DEVELOPMENT OF BROADBAND, ENERGY, 
                   HOUSING, AND WATER INFRASTRUCTURE IN RURAL 
                   AREAS OF THE UNITED STATES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to the 
     effective development of broadband, energy, housing, and 
     water infrastructure in rural areas of the United States by 
     the amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1257. Ms. KLOBUCHAR submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   DEVELOPING A COMPREHENSIVE CAREER AND TECHNICAL 
                   EDUCATION OUTREACH AND EDUCATION GRANT PROGRAM.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     developing a comprehensive career and technical education 
     outreach and education grant program, including by educating 
     students and parents at an early stage about obtaining real-
     world skills and experiences and addressing outdated 
     perceptions about career and technical education and careers, 
     by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1258. Ms. KLOBUCHAR submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND TO CREATE INCENTIVES 
                   FOR MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS TO LOCATE IN THE 
                   UNITED STATES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     creating incentives for manufacturing operations to locate in 
     the United States by the amounts provided in such legislation 
     for those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1259. Ms. KLOBUCHAR submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO PROMOTING 
                   RURAL BROADBAND DEPLOYMENT.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     promoting rural broadband deployment by the amounts provided 
     in such legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1260. Ms. KLOBUCHAR submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

[[Page S6560]]

  


     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO ALLOWING 
                   VETERANS TO RECEIVE CARE FOR THEIR NEWBORNS FOR 
                   UP TO 14 DAYS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     allowing veterans to receive care for their newborns for up 
     to 14 days by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1261. Ms. KLOBUCHAR submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO PROMOTING 
                   THE OUTDOOR ECONOMY.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     promoting the outdoor economy, including the production of 
     economic data to accurately measure the economic benefits of 
     public land and outdoor space in the United States, by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1262. Ms. KLOBUCHAR submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   EQUALIZING THE TREATMENT OF SERVICEMEMBERS' AND 
                   BUSINESS MILEAGE.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     treating mileage traveled by members of the Armed Forces 
     (including reserve components) in the same manner as other 
     business travel for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986, including by equalizing the required distance for 
     deductible travel, by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1263. Ms. KLOBUCHAR submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   DESIGNATING CERTAIN MEDICAL FACILITIES OF THE 
                   DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS AS HEALTH 
                   PROFESSIONAL SHORTAGE AREAS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     designating certain medical facilities of the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs as health professional shortage areas, by 
     the amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1264. Ms. KLOBUCHAR submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PERMITTING CHILDREN OF MEMBERS OF THE NATIONAL 
                   GUARD AND RESERVE TO PARTICIPATE IN EDUCATION 
                   PROGRAMS THAT PROVIDE ADDITIONAL SUPPORT TO 
                   MILITARY FAMILIES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     permitting children of members of the National Guard and 
     Reserve to participate in education programs that provide 
     additional support to military families by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1265. Ms. HEITKAMP submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PROTECTING POSTAL SERVICES FOR AMERICA'S POSTAL 
                   CUSTOMERS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     protecting postal services for the people of the United 
     States, which may include improving the financial stability 
     and condition of the United States Postal Service, 
     strengthening the service performance that postal customers 
     experience, or prioritizing the needs of rural areas of the 
     United States, by the amounts provided in such legislation 
     for those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1266. Ms. HEITKAMP submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO THE 
                   DOMESTIC AGRICULTURAL ECONOMY.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to the 
     domestic agricultural economy, such as improving farm income, 
     addressing agricultural market disaster, or expanding the use 
     of value-added agricultural products, by the amounts provided 
     in such legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1267. Mr. WARNER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

[[Page S6561]]

  


     SEC. 41___. USE OF CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE BASELINE TO 
                   DETERMINE BUDGETARY EFFECTS.

       In the Senate, for purposes of determining points of order 
     established under the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 
     U.S.C. 621 et seq.) or any concurrent resolution on the 
     budget, any estimate of the levels of new budget authority, 
     outlays, or direct spending, new entitlement authority, or 
     revenues in a bill, resolution, amendment, motion, conference 
     report, or amendment between the Houses shall be made using 
     the baseline projection under section 257 of the Balanced 
     Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 
     907).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1268. Mr. WARNER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41__. HONEST ACCOUNTING: COST ESTIMATES FOR TEMPORARY 
                   TAX PROVISIONS.

       (a) CBO and JCT Estimates.--During the 115th Congress, in 
     the Senate, any covered cost estimate for a bill, joint 
     resolution, amendment, amendment between the Houses, motion, 
     or conference report that creates or extends a temporary tax 
     provision shall also include, for information purposes only, 
     an estimate of the cost of the temporary tax provision, as if 
     it were permanent.
       (b) Definitions.--In this section--
       (1) the term ``covered cost estimate'' means an estimate 
     provided--
       (A) by the Congressional Budget Office under section 402 of 
     the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 653);
       (B) by the Joint Committee on Taxation to the Congressional 
     Budget Office under section 201(f) of such Act (2 U.S.C. 
     601(f)); or
       (C) at the request of the Chairman or Ranking Member of the 
     Committee on Finance or the Committee on the Budget of the 
     Senate; and
       (2) the term ``temporary tax provision'' means an amendment 
     to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (or any other provision 
     of tax law) which includes a date of termination or applies 
     only to periods, transactions, or events before a specified 
     date.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1269. Mr. MANCHIN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   ENCOURAGING THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AND THE 
                   MILITARY DEPARTMENTS TO OBTAIN AUDITS WITH 
                   UNQUALIFIED OPINIONS OF STATEMENT OF BUDGETARY 
                   RESOURCES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     encouraging the Department of Defense and the military 
     departments to obtain audits with unqualified opinions of 
     statement of budgetary resources by the amounts provided in 
     such legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1270. Mr. MANCHIN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. ___. LIMIT ON SENATE CONSIDERATION OF RECONCILIATION.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider a bill or joint resolution reported pursuant to 
     section 2001, or an amendment to, conference report on, or 
     amendment between the Houses in relation to such a bill or 
     joint resolution, which does not dedicate future savings from 
     such legislation in a manner which allocates 40 percent of 
     such savings to the capitalization of a national 
     infrastructure bank and 60 percent of such savings to 
     reduction of the deficit.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1271. Mr. WYDEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST REDUCING FUNDING FOR MEALS 
                   ON WHEELS OR OTHER NUTRITION SERVICES.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that 
     repeals or reduces funding for nutrition services under part 
     C of title III of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 
     3030d-21 et seq.).
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1272. Mr. WYDEN (for himself and Ms. Cantwell) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   ADDRESSING THE MANY BARRIERS FACED BY WOMEN 
                   BUSINESS OWNERS AND ENTREPRENEURS, INCLUDING 
                   PROMOTING THE WOMEN'S BUSINESS CENTER PROGRAM.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     addressing the many barriers faced by women business owners 
     and entrepreneurs, including promoting the Women's Business 
     Center program, by the amounts provided in such legislation 
     for those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1273. Mr. WYDEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO THE LAND 
                   AND WATER CONSERVATION FUND.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports making changes to 
     or providing for the reauthorization of the Land and Water 
     Conservation Fund established under section 200302 of title 
     54, United States Code, by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1274. Mr. MARKEY (for himself and Mr. Cardin) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:


[[Page S6562]]


  

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4___. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD 
                   CAUSE A DECLINE IN THE REHABILITATION OF 
                   HISTORIC INCOME-PRODUCING PROPERTIES IN THE 
                   UNITED STATES.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     cause a decline in the rehabilitation of historic income-
     producing properties in the United States, including by 
     repealing the rehabilitation tax credit.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1275. Mr. COONS (for himself and Mr. Rubio) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to 
the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO THE 
                   IMPACT OF EXTREME WEATHER AND NATURAL DISASTERS 
                   ON CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SYSTEMS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     initiatives to bolster the resilience of existing critical 
     infrastructure systems and facilitate the development of new 
     critical infrastructure systems, which may include energy 
     infrastructure, telecommunications, drinking water and 
     wastewater, transportation networks, shore and flood 
     protection, food production, healthcare and long-term care 
     facilities, schools, law enforcement agencies, and public 
     buildings, in order to improve critical infrastructure 
     resilience in the United States and reduce the long-term 
     economic costs from impacts related to extreme weather events 
     or natural disasters, such as heavy rains, hurricanes, 
     flooding, storm surge, sea-level rise, extreme temperatures 
     or temperature changes, wildfires, earthquakes, or tornadoes, 
     by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1276. Ms. HARRIS (for herself, Mr. Burr, and Mrs. Murray) 
submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 
proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, 
establishing the congressional budget for the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the 
table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO CONTINUED 
                   FUNDING FOR THE CAPITAL INVESTMENT GRANT 
                   PROGRAM OF THE FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     Federal investment in the Capital Investment Grant program, 
     which may include measures to build and improve subway, 
     commuter rail, light rail, bus rapid transit, streetcar, or 
     ferry projects to support strong, safe, and efficient public 
     transportation systems, by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1277. Mr. PAUL submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       In section 2001, strike subsection (c) and insert the 
     following:
       (c) Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.--
     The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of 
     the Senate shall report changes in laws within its 
     jurisdiction to reduce the deficit by not less than 
     $1,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
       (d) Committee on the Judiciary.--The Committee on the 
     Judiciary of the Senate shall report changes in laws within 
     its jurisdiction to reduce the deficit by not less than 
     $1,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
       (e) Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
     Affairs.--The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
     Affairs of the Senate shall report changes in laws within its 
     jurisdiction to reduce the deficit by not less than 
     $1,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
       (f) Submissions.--In the Senate, not later than November 
     13, 2017, the Committees named in subsections (a) through (e) 
     shall submit their recommendations to the Committee on the 
     Budget of the Senate. Upon receiving such recommendations, 
     the Committee on the Budget of the Senate shall report to the 
     Senate a reconciliation bill carrying out all such 
     recommendations without any substantive revision.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1278. Mr. PAUL submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 47, line 6, strike ``$1,500,000,000,000'' and 
     insert ``$2,000,000,000,000''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1279. Mr. HEINRICH (for himself and Mr. Udall) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO IMPROVING 
                   BROADBAND DEPLOYMENT UNDER THE RURAL 
                   DEVELOPMENT MISSION AREA OF THE DEPARTMENT OF 
                   AGRICULTURE ON TRIBAL LAND.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     improving broadband deployment under the rural development 
     mission area of the Department of Agriculture on Tribal land 
     by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1280. Mr. HEINRICH (for himself and Mr. Udall) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO HELPING 
                   PROVIDE INCREASED VOTING SECURITY FOR THE 
                   VOTING SYSTEMS OF THE UNITED STATES TO PROTECT 
                   AGAINST INTRUSION, THEFT, MANIPULATION, AND 
                   DELETION OF VOTER REGISTRATION DATA, BALLOTS, 
                   OR VOTES CAST, AND TO PREVENT CYBER ATTACKS 
                   FROM MALICIOUS COMPUTER HACKERS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     securing State election systems from intrusion, theft, 
     manipulation, and deletion of voter registration data, 
     ballots, or votes cast, and to prevent cyber attacks from 
     malicious computer hackers by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1281. Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself and Mr. Menendez) submitted an

[[Page S6563]]

amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of the amendment, add the following:

     SEC. 4207. PROHIBITION ON DETAINING, REMOVING, OR DEPORTING 
                   ALIENS ON WHOSE BEHALF PRIVATE RELIEF BILLS 
                   HAVE BEEN INTRODUCED.

       No Federal funding or other Federal resources made 
     available during fiscal year 2018 may be used to detain, 
     remove, or deport any alien on whose behalf a private relief 
     bill has been introduced by a member of Congress during the 
     115th Congress.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1282. Mr. JOHNSON submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO BRINGING 
                   ABOUT FAIRNESS TO THE TAXATION OF BUSINESS 
                   EARNINGS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     changes in Federal tax laws, which may include provisions to 
     align the American tax system with our trading partners by 
     bringing fairness to the taxation of American business 
     income, which may include ensuring the owners of capital bear 
     the full burden of the taxation of business income, by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1283. Mr. CASSIDY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO PERMANENT 
                   TAX RELIEF FOR MAJOR DISASTERS DECLARED BY THE 
                   FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     changes in Federal tax laws, which may include permanent tax 
     relief for major disasters declared by the Federal 
     government, by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1284. Mr. CASSIDY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO THE 
                   ISSUANCE OF NEW LEASES IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL 
                   SHELF.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to the 
     expansion of leasing in the outer Continental Shelf by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1285. Mr. CASSIDY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41___. SCORING RULE FOR AMOUNTS RECEIVED FROM OFFSHORE 
                   DRILLING LEASES IN THE SENATE.

       In the Senate, for purposes of determining points of order 
     under the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 621 et 
     seq.) or any concurrent resolution on the budget, amounts 
     received under any offshore drilling lease entered into or 
     modified after the date on which this concurrent resolution 
     is agreed to shall not count as revenue of the Federal 
     Government, if the amounts are required to be distributed to 
     States or units of local government.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1286. Mr. PAUL submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO TAX 
                   RELIEF FOR HARD-WORKING MIDDLE-CLASS AMERICANS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-as-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     changes in Federal tax laws, which may include tax relief for 
     hard-working middle-class American taxpayers, by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1287. Mr. PAUL submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41___. ENFORCEMENT OF ALLOCATIONS, AGGREGATES, AND OTHER 
                   LEVELS.

       (a) Point of Order.--During each of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027, it shall not be in order in the Senate to 
     consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     cause the amount of new budget authority, outlays, or 
     deficits to be more than, or would cause the amount of 
     revenues to be less than, the amount set forth under any 
     allocation, aggregate, or other level established under this 
     resolution.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1288. Mr. PAUL submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST CONSIDERATION OF A 
                   CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET THAT DOES 
                   NOT INCLUDE INFORMATION RELATING TO THE 
                   SOLVENCY OF THE SOCIAL SECURITY TRUST FUNDS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any concurrent resolution on the budget for a 
     fiscal year, or any amendment thereto, or any conference 
     report thereon, which does not include the following 
     information:
       (1) The year in which the asset reserves of the Federal 
     Old-Age and Survivors Insurance

[[Page S6564]]

     Trust Fund are projected to become depleted (as estimated by 
     the Board of Trustees of the Federal Old-Age and Survivors 
     Insurance and Federal Disability Insurance Trust Funds).
       (2) The year in which the asset reserves of the Federal 
     Disability Insurance Trust Fund are projected to become 
     depleted (as estimated by the Board of Trustees of the 
     Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance and Federal 
     Disability Insurance Trust Funds).
       (3) For each of the years identified under paragraph (1) 
     and (2), the projected amount (expressed as a percentage) by 
     which benefits scheduled to be paid under the Federal Old-Age 
     and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund or the Federal Disability 
     Insurance Trust Fund, as applicable, shall be reduced as a 
     result of the trust fund having insufficient assets to meet 
     its obligations (as estimated by the Board of Trustees of the 
     Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance and Federal 
     Disability Insurance Trust Funds).
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1289. Mr. PAUL submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 83, line 20, insert ``, by an affirmative vote of 
     three-fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn,'' after 
     ``emergency requirement''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1290. Mr. PAUL submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41___. DUPLICATION DETERMINATIONS BY THE CONGRESSIONAL 
                   BUDGET OFFICE.

       (a) Definition.--In this section, the term ``covered 
     legislation'' means a bill or resolution of a public 
     character reported by any committee of the Senate.
       (b) Duplication Determinations by the Congressional Budget 
     Office.--Any estimate provided by the Congressional Budget 
     Office under section 402 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
     1974 (2 U.S.C. 653) for covered legislation shall include an 
     analysis that includes--
       (1) a determination of whether the covered legislation 
     creates any new Federal program, office, or initiative that 
     would duplicate or overlap with any existing Federal entity 
     with similar mission, purpose, goals, or activities; and
       (2) a listing of all such instances of duplication or 
     overlapping created by the covered legislation.
       (c) Point of Order.--
       (1) In general.--It shall not be in order in the Senate to 
     consider any covered legislation unless the committee 
     reporting the covered legislation has posted on the public 
     website of the committee the analysis described in subsection 
     (b).
       (2) Waiver and appeal.--Paragraph (1) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     paragraph (1).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1291. Mr. PAUL submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4114. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST FUNDING PROGRAMS THAT HAVE 
                   BEEN EXPIRED FOR MORE THAN 5 YEARS.

       (a) Point of Order.--
       (1) In general.--In the Senate, it shall not be in order to 
     consider a provision in a bill, joint resolution, motion, 
     amendment, amendment between the Houses, or conference report 
     that appropriates amounts for a program for which the 
     authorizing authority has been expired for more than 5 fiscal 
     years.
       (2) Point of order sustained.--If a point of order is made 
     by a Senator against a provision described in paragraph (1), 
     and the point of order is sustained by the Chair, that 
     provision shall be stricken from the measure and may not be 
     offered as an amendment from the floor.
       (b) Form of the Point of Order.--A point of order under 
     subsection (a)(1) may be raised by a Senator as provided in 
     section 313(e) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 
     U.S.C. 644(e)).
       (c) Conference Reports.--When the Senate is considering a 
     conference report on, or an amendment between the Houses in 
     relation to, a bill or joint resolution, upon a point of 
     order being made by any Senator pursuant to subsection 
     (a)(1), and such point of order being sustained, such 
     material contained in such conference report or House 
     amendment shall be stricken, and the Senate shall proceed to 
     consider the question of whether the Senate shall recede from 
     its amendment and concur with a further amendment, or concur 
     in the House amendment with a further amendment, as the case 
     may be, which further amendment shall consist of only that 
     portion of the conference report or House amendment, as the 
     case may be, not so stricken. Any such motion in the Senate 
     shall be debatable. In any case in which such point of order 
     is sustained against a conference report (or Senate amendment 
     derived from such conference report by operation of this 
     subsection), no further amendment shall be in order.
       (d) Supermajority Waiver and Appeal.--In the Senate, this 
     section may be waived or suspended only by an affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members, duly chose and sworn. An 
     affirmative vote of three-fifths of Members of the Senate, 
     duly chosen and sworn shall be required to sustain an appeal 
     of the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     this section.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1292. Mr. PAUL submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the appropriate place insert the following:

     SEC. ___. SENSE OF THE SENATE ON TREATMENT OF REDUCTION OF 
                   APPROPRIATIONS LEVELS TO ACHIEVE SAVINGS.

       (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
       (1) H. Con. Res. 448 (96th Congress), the concurrent 
     resolution on the budget for fiscal year 1981, gave 
     authorizing committees reconciliation instructions which 
     amounted to approximately two-thirds of the savings required 
     under reconciliation.
       (2) The language in H. Con. Res. 448 resulted in a debate 
     about how reconciling discretionary spending programs could 
     be in order given that authorizations of appropriations for 
     programs did not actually change spending and the programs 
     authorized would be funded through later annual 
     appropriation. The staff of the Committee on the Budget of 
     the Senate and Marty Gold, counsel to the Majority Leader, 
     advised that upon consultation with the Parliamentarian, the 
     original instructions on discretionary spending would be out 
     of order because of the phrase, ``to modify programs''. This 
     was seen as too broad and programs could be modified without 
     resulting in changes to their future appropriations.
       (3) To rectify this violation, the Committee on the Budget 
     of the Senate reported S. Con. Res. 9 (97th Congress), 
     revising the congressional budget for the United States 
     Government for fiscal years 1981, 1982, and 1983, to include 
     reconciliation, which revised the language in the 
     reconciliation instructions to change entitlement law and 
     ``to report changes in laws within the jurisdiction of that 
     committee sufficient to reduce appropriations levels so as to 
     achieve savings''.
       (4) This was understood to mean changes in authorization 
     language of discretionary programs would be permissible under 
     reconciliation procedures provided such changes in law would 
     have the result in affecting a change in later outlays 
     derived from future appropriations. Further it was understood 
     that a change in authorization language that caused a change 
     in later outlays was considered to be a change in outlays for 
     the purpose of reconciliation.
       (5) On April 2, 1981, the Senate voted 88 to 10 to approve 
     S. Con. Res. 9 with the modified reconciliation language.
       (b) Sense of the Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate 
     that committees reporting changes in laws within the 
     jurisdiction of that committee sufficient to reduce 
     appropriations levels so as to achieve savings shall be 
     considered to be changes in outlays for the purpose of 
     enforcing the prohibition on extraneous matters in 
     reconciliation bills.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1293. Mr. PAUL submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027;

[[Page S6565]]

which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41__. VOTING THRESHOLD FOR POINTS OF ORDER.

       (a) Definition.--In this section, the term ``covered point 
     of order'' means a point of order--
       (1) under the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 
     621 et seq.), the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 900 et seq.), or a concurrent 
     resolution; and
       (2) which, but for subsection (b), may be waived only by 
     the affirmative vote of three-fifths of the Members of the 
     Senate, duly chosen and sworn.
       (b) Voting Threshold.--In the Senate--
       (1) a covered point of order may be waived only by the 
     affirmative vote of three-fourths of the Members, duly chosen 
     and sworn; and
       (2) an affirmative vote of three-fourths of the Members, 
     duly chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal 
     of the ruling of the Chair on a covered point of order.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1294. Mr. PAUL submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       Strike section 2001 and insert the following:

     SEC. 2001. RECONCILIATION IN THE SENATE.

       (a) Committee on Agriculture.--The Committee on Agriculture 
     of the Senate shall report changes in laws within its 
     jurisdiction that reduce the deficit by not less than 
     $210,740,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
       (b) Committee on Armed Services.--The Committee on Armed 
     Services of the Senate shall report changes in laws within 
     its jurisdiction that reduce the deficit by not less than 
     $21,070,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
       (c) Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.--
     The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of 
     the Senate shall report changes in laws within its 
     jurisdiction that reduce the deficit by not less than 
     $421,480,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
       (d) Committee on Energy and Natural Resources .--The 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate shall 
     report changes in laws within its jurisdiction that reduce 
     the deficit by not less than $526,850,000,000 for the period 
     of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
       (e) Committee on Finance.--The Committee on Finance of the 
     Senate shall report changes in laws within its jurisdiction 
     that--
       (1) reduce new budget authority by not less than 
     $1,095,840,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
       (2) increase the deficit by not more than 
     $1,5000,000,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
       (f) Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.--The 
     Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the 
     Senate shall report changes in laws within its jurisdiction 
     that reduce the deficit by not less than $295,030,000,000 for 
     the period of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
       (g) Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
     Affairs.--The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
     Affairs of the Senate shall report changes in laws within its 
     jurisdiction that reduce the deficit by not less than 
     $737,590,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
       (h) Committee on the Judiciary.--The Committee on the 
     Judiciary of the Senate shall report changes in laws within 
     its jurisdiction that reduce the deficit by not less than 
     $948,330,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
       (i) Committee on Veterans' Affairs.--The Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs of the Senate shall report changes in laws 
     within its jurisdiction that reduce the deficit by not less 
     than $21,070,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
       (j) Submissions.--In the Senate, not later than November 
     13, 2017, the Committees named in subsections (a) through (i) 
     shall submit their recommendations to the Committee on the 
     Budget of the Senate. Upon receiving such recommendations, 
     the Committee on the Budget of the Senate shall report to the 
     Senate a reconciliation bill carrying out all such 
     recommendations without any substantive revision.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1295. Mr. PAUL submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 47, line 6, strike ``$1,500,000,000,000'' and 
     insert ``$2,000,000,000,000''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1296. Mr. PAUL submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       Strike section 2001 and insert the following:

     SEC. 2001. RECONCILIATION IN THE SENATE.

       (a) Committee on Agriculture.--The Committee on Agriculture 
     of the Senate shall report changes in laws within its 
     jurisdiction that reduce the deficit for fiscal year 2018 by 
     not less than $4,800,000,000.
       (b) Committee on Armed Services.--The Committee on Armed 
     Services of the Senate shall report changes in laws within 
     its jurisdiction that reduce the deficit for fiscal year 2018 
     by not less than $480,000,000.
       (c) Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.--
     The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of 
     the Senate shall report changes in laws within its 
     jurisdiction that reduce the deficit for fiscal year 2018 by 
     not less than $9,660,000,000.
       (d) Committee on Energy and Natural Resources .--The 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate shall 
     report changes in laws within its jurisdiction that reduce 
     the deficit for fiscal year 2018 by not less than 
     $12,070,000,000.
       (e) Committee on Finance.--The Committee on Finance of the 
     Senate shall report changes in laws within its jurisdiction 
     that--
       (1) reduce new budget authority for fiscal year 2018 by not 
     less than $25,100,000,000; and
       (2) that increase the deficit by not more than 
     $1,500,000,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
       (f) Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.--The 
     Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the 
     Senate shall report changes in laws within its jurisdiction 
     that reduce the deficit for fiscal year 2018 by not less than 
     $6,760,000,000.
       (g) Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
     Affairs.--The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
     Affairs of the Senate shall report changes in laws within its 
     jurisdiction that reduce the deficit for fiscal year 2018 by 
     not less than $16,900,000,000.
       (h) Committee on the Judiciary.--The Committee on the 
     Judiciary of the Senate shall report changes in laws within 
     its jurisdiction that reduce the deficit for fiscal year 2018 
     by not less than $21,720,000,000.
       (i) Committee on Veterans' Affairs.--The Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs of the Senate shall report changes in laws 
     within its jurisdiction that reduce the deficit for fiscal 
     year 2018 by not less than $480,000,000.
       (j) Submissions.--In the Senate, not later than November 
     13, 2017, the Committees named in subsections (a) through (i) 
     shall submit their recommendations to the Committee on the 
     Budget of the Senate. Upon receiving such recommendations, 
     the Committee on the Budget of the Senate shall report to the 
     Senate a reconciliation bill carrying out all such 
     recommendations without any substantive revision.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1297. Mr. PAUL submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
     following:

     SECTION 1. CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL 
                   YEAR 2018.

       (a) Declaration.--Congress declares that this resolution is 
     the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2018 
     and that this resolution sets forth the appropriate budgetary 
     levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027.
       (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this 
     concurrent resolution is as follows:

Sec. 1. Concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2018.

                TITLE I--RECOMMENDED LEVELS AND AMOUNTS

              Subtitle A--Budgetary Levels in Both Houses

Sec. 1101. Recommended levels and amounts.
Sec. 1102. Major functional categories.

              Subtitle B--Levels and Amounts in the Senate

Sec. 1201. Social Security in the Senate.
Sec. 1202. Postal Service discretionary administrative expenses in the 
              Senate.

                        TITLE II--RECONCILIATION

Sec. 2001. Reconciliation in the Senate.
Sec. 2002. Reconciliation in the House of Representatives.

                        TITLE III--RESERVE FUNDS

Sec. 3001. Deficit-neutral reserve fund to protect flexible and 
              affordable health care for all.
Sec. 3002. Revenue-neutral reserve fund to reform the American tax 
              system.
Sec. 3003. Reserve fund for reconciliation legislation.

[[Page S6566]]

Sec. 3004. Deficit-neutral reserve fund for extending the State 
              Children's Health Insurance Program.
Sec. 3005. Deficit-neutral reserve fund to strengthen American 
              families.
Sec. 3006. Deficit-neutral reserve fund to promote innovative 
              educational and nutritional models and systems for 
              American students.
Sec. 3007. Deficit-neutral reserve fund to improve the American banking 
              system.
Sec. 3008. Deficit-neutral reserve fund to promote American 
              agriculture, energy, transportation, and infrastructure 
              improvements.
Sec. 3009. Deficit-neutral reserve fund to restore American military 
              power.
Sec. 3010. Deficit-neutral reserve fund for veterans and service 
              members.
Sec. 3011. Deficit-neutral reserve fund for public lands and the 
              environment.
Sec. 3012. Deficit-neutral reserve fund to secure the American border.
Sec. 3013. Deficit-neutral reserve fund to promote economic growth, the 
              private sector, and to enhance job creation.
Sec. 3014. Deficit-neutral reserve fund for legislation modifying 
              statutory budgetary controls.
Sec. 3015. Deficit-neutral reserve fund to prevent the taxpayer bailout 
              of pension plans.
Sec. 3016. Deficit-neutral reserve fund relating to implementing work 
              requirements in all means-tested Federal welfare 
              programs.
Sec. 3017. Deficit-neutral reserve fund to protect Medicare and repeal 
              the Independent Payment Advisory Board.
Sec. 3018. Deficit-neutral reserve fund relating to affordable child 
              and dependent care.
Sec. 3019. Deficit-neutral reserve fund relating to worker training 
              programs.
Sec. 3020. Reserve fund for legislation to provide disaster funds for 
              relief and recovery efforts to areas devastated by 
              hurricanes and flooding in 2017.

                        TITLE IV--BUDGET PROCESS

                     Subtitle A--Budget Enforcement

Sec. 4101. Point of order against advance appropriations in the Senate.
Sec. 4102. Point of order against certain changes in mandatory 
              programs.
Sec. 4103. Point of order against provisions that constitute changes in 
              mandatory programs affecting the Crime Victims Fund.
Sec. 4104. Point of order against designation of funds for overseas 
              contingency operations.
Sec. 4105. Point of order against reconciliation amendments with 
              unknown budgetary effects.
Sec. 4106. Pay-As-You-Go point of order in the Senate.
Sec. 4107. Honest accounting: cost estimates for major legislation to 
              incorporate macroeconomic effects.
Sec. 4108. Adjustment authority for amendments to statutory caps.
Sec. 4109. Adjustment for wildfire suppression funding in the Senate.
Sec. 4110. Adjustment for improved oversight of spending.
Sec. 4111. Repeal of certain limitations.
Sec. 4112. Emergency legislation.
Sec. 4113. Enforcement filing in the Senate.

                      Subtitle B--Other Provisions

Sec. 4201. Oversight of Government performance.
Sec. 4202. Budgetary treatment of certain discretionary administrative 
              expenses.
Sec. 4203. Application and effect of changes in allocations and 
              aggregates.
Sec. 4204. Adjustments to reflect changes in concepts and definitions.
Sec. 4205. Adjustments to reflect legislation not included in the 
              baseline.
Sec. 4206. Exercise of rulemaking powers.

                TITLE I--RECOMMENDED LEVELS AND AMOUNTS

              Subtitle A--Budgetary Levels in Both Houses

     SEC. 1101. RECOMMENDED LEVELS AND AMOUNTS.

       The following budgetary levels are appropriate for each of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027:
       (1) Federal revenues.--For purposes of the enforcement of 
     this resolution:
       (A) The recommended levels of Federal revenues are as 
     follows:
       Fiscal year 2018: $2,490,936,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019: $2,613,683,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020: $2,755,381,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021: $2,883,381,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022: $3,015,847,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023: $3,162,063,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024: $3,306,948,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025: $3,463,269,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026: $3,654,829,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2027: $3,825,184,000,000.
       (B) The amounts by which the aggregate levels of Federal 
     revenues should be changed are as follows:
       Fiscal year 2018: -$167,200,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019: -$169,500,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020: -$166,000,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021: -$165,200,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022: -$166,400,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023: -$167,700,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024: -$169,800,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025: -$172,200,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026: -$146,400,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2027: -$145,000,000,000.
       (2) New budget authority.--For purposes of the enforcement 
     of this resolution, the appropriate levels of total new 
     budget authority are as follows:
       Fiscal year 2018: $3,093,721,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019: $3,220,542,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020: $3,319,687,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021: $3,344,861,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022: $3,501,231,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023: $3,563,762,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024: $3,607,752,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025: $3,753,919,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026: $3,851,463,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2027: $3,942,710,000,000.
       (3) Budget outlays.--For purposes of the enforcement of 
     this resolution, the appropriate levels of total budget 
     outlays are as follows:
       Fiscal year 2018: $3,095,740,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019: $3,266,669,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020: $3,310,493,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021: $3,370,283,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022: $3,486,230,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023: $3,532,290,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024: $3,561,834,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025: $3,710,120,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026: $3,810,435,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2027: $3,903,041,000,000.
       (4) Deficits.--For purposes of the enforcement of this 
     resolution, the amounts of the deficits are as follows:
       Fiscal year 2018: $605,492,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019: $612,986,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020: $554,338,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021: $486,902,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022: $470,383,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023: $370,227,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024: $254,886,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025: $246,851,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026: $155,606,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2027: $77,857,000,000.
       (5) Public debt.--Pursuant to section 301(a)(5) of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 632(a)(5)), the 
     appropriate levels of the public debt are as follows:
       Fiscal year 2018: $21,243,431,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019: $22,056,913,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020: $22,759,903,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021: $23,396,024,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022: $23,992,408,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023: $24,508,029,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024: $24,953,195,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025: $25,375,994,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026: $25,777,513,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2027: $25,999,469,000,000.
       (6) Debt held by the public.--The appropriate levels of 
     debt held by the public are as follows:
       Fiscal year 2018: $15,560,034,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019: $16,274,565,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020: $16,932,521,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021: $17,553,196,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022: $18,188,386,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023: $18,765,097,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024: $19,269,019,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025: $19,809,369,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026: $20,307,841,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2027: $20,780,452,000,000.

     SEC. 1102. MAJOR FUNCTIONAL CATEGORIES.

       Congress determines and declares that the appropriate 
     levels of new budget authority and outlays for fiscal years 
     2018 through 2027 for each major functional category are:
       (1) National Defense (050):
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, $557,253,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $569,287,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $570,316,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $568,721,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $584,504,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $574,347,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $598,730,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $584,706,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $613,707,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $601,894,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $629,014,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $611,538,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $644,732,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $621,649,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $660,854,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $641,891,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $678,183,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $658,658,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2027:
       (A) New budget authority, $695,076,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $675,108,000,000.
       (2) International Affairs (150):
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, $45,157,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $44,985,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $43,978,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $43,114,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $44,042,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $42,992,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $44,060,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $42,702,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $43,161,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $42,743,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $44,183,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $43,045,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $45,222,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $43,511,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $46,283,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $44,062,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:

[[Page S6567]]

       (A) New budget authority, $47,394,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $44,844,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2027:
       (A) New budget authority, $48,467,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $45,676,000,000.
       (3) General Science, Space, and Technology (250):
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, $32,565,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $31,909,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $33,238,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $32,561,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $33,908,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $33,191,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $34,637,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $33,864,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $35,401,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $34,666,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $36,165,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $35,427,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $36,940,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $36,167,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $37,775,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $36,956,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $38,617,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $37,773,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2027:
       (A) New budget authority, $39,464,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $38,597,000,000.
       (4) Energy (270):
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, -$762,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $2,686,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $4,392,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $2,869,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $4,737,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $3,529,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $4,615,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $3,558,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $3,363,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $2,268,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $3,069,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $1,994,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $3,090,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $2,085,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $3,106,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $2,168,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $3,153,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $2,264,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2027:
       (A) New budget authority, $3,238,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $2,442,000,000.
       (5) Natural Resources and Environment (300):
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, $40,489,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $40,597,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $42,110,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $42,293,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $43,533,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $43,420,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $43,091,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $42,742,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $45,022,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $44,194,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $45,716,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $44,767,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $46,080,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $45,125,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $47,575,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $46,581,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $48,511,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $47,501,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2027:
       (A) New budget authority, $49,280,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $48,326,000,000.
       (6) Agriculture (350):
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, $22,063,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $21,979,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $21,564,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $19,898,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $20,372,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $18,450,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $19,284,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $18,540,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $18,743,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $18,135,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $18,894,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $18,354,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $19,311,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $18,638,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $19,881,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $19,112,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $20,173,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $19,439,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2027:
       (A) New budget authority, $20,280,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $19,542,000,000.
       (7) Commerce and Housing Credit (370):
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, $9,379,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$4,060,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $12,090,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $2,554,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $7,997,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$646,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $5,359,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$2,364,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $7,393,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$2,715,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, -$3,254,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$14,163,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, -$4,648,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$16,202,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, -$4,817,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$17,747,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, -$6,228,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$19,133,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2027:
       (A) New budget authority, -$6,816,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$19,990,000,000.
       (8) Transportation (400):
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, $89,125,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $92,875,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $90,538,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $92,393,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $84,687,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $93,064,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $40,062,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $81,597,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $71,003,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $69,791,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $71,930,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $74,521,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $73,370,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $76,450,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $74,843,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $76,523,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $76,345,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $76,895,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2027:
       (A) New budget authority, $77,831,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $78,001,000,000.
       (9) Community and Regional Development (450):
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, $19,018,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $21,697,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $19,281,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $20,600,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $19,435,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $19,518,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $19,690,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $18,867,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $19,778,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $18,506,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $20,061,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $18,041,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $20,347,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $18,277,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $20,669,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $18,831,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $20,985,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $19,353,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2027:
       (A) New budget authority, $21,304,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $19,932,000,000.
       (10) Education, Training, Employment, and Social Services 
     (500):
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, $90,224,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $99,348,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $100,086,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $98,799,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $101,018,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $101,064,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $102,034,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $102,218,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $102,700,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $103,178,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $102,725,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $103,653,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $103,012,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $103,960,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $103,798,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $104,747,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $104,942,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $105,921,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2027:
       (A) New budget authority, $106,473,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $107,433,000,000.
       (11) Health (550):
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, $546,598,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $558,311,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $560,622,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $563,293,000,000.

[[Page S6568]]

       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $578,838,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $570,311,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $574,616,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $575,040,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $586,530,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $583,769,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $601,742,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $599,099,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $605,811,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $603,443,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $617,220,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $614,728,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $633,890,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $630,824,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2027:
       (A) New budget authority, $652,230,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $653,552,000,000.
       (12) Medicare (570):
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, $586,239,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $585,962,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $643,592,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $643,374,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $687,119,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $686,926,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $734,446,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $734,241,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $819,300,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $819,073,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $833,885,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $833,669,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $845,578,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $845,355,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $934,429,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $934,186,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $1,002,522,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $1,002,272,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2027:
       (A) New budget authority, $1,066,566,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $1,066,321,000,000.
       (13) Income Security (600):
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, $491,978,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $477,537,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $490,106,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $479,627,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $493,118,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $482,945,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $494,706,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $485,536,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $497,021,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $494,507,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $506,711,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $499,405,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $515,692,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $502,742,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $531,668,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $520,169,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $544,483,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $538,620,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2027:
       (A) New budget authority, $557,641,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $548,723,000,000.
       (14) Social Security (650):
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, $39,683,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $39,683,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $43,091,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $43,091,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $46,182,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $46,182,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $49,460,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $49,460,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $52,915,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $52,915,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $56,734,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $56,734,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $60,953,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $60,953,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $65,424,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $65,424,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $69,757,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $69,757,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2027:
       (A) New budget authority, $74,173,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $74,173,000,000.
       (15) Veterans Benefits and Services (700):
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, $176,446,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $177,393,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $191,376,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $189,441,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $198,336,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $196,338,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $205,001,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $202,930,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $221,481,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $219,320,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $219,424,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $216,903,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $216,519,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $214,343,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $234,741,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $232,535,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $242,559,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $240,210,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2027:
       (A) New budget authority, $251,142,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $248,884,000,000.
       (16) Administration of Justice (750):
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, $65,038,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $61,006,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $64,244,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $64,504,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $64,377,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $66,523,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $65,866,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $69,272,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $67,069,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $69,488,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $68,813,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $69,657,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $70,592,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $70,232,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $72,432,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $71,865,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $74,233,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $73,500,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2027:
       (A) New budget authority, $76,093,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $75,382,000,000.
       (17) General Government (800):
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, $24,675,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $24,889,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $25,518,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $25,642,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $25,989,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $25,994,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $26,649,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $26,358,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $27,311,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $26,973,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $27,972,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $27,608,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $28,485,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $28,134,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $29,255,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $28,830,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $30,052,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $29,610,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2027:
       (A) New budget authority, $30,827,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $30,382,000,000.
       (18) Net Interest (900):
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, $388,767,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $388,767,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $441,158,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $441,158,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $497,893,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $497,893,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $546,206,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $546,206,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $589,086,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $589,086,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $630,179,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $630,179,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $664,060,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $664,060,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $691,250,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $691,250,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $716,494,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $716,494,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2027:
       (A) New budget authority, $736,146,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $736,146,000,000.
       (19) Allowances (920):
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, -$111,576,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$86,315,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, -$133,357,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$102,538,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, -$145,919,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$131,518,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, -$176,695,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$166,918,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, -$218,460,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$209,169,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:

[[Page S6569]]

       (A) New budget authority, -$247,892,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$238,885,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, -$276,275,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$266,915,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, -$307,701,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$297,489,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, -$366,270,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$356,035,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2027:
       (A) New budget authority, -$415,402,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$404,286,000,000.
       (20) Undistributed Offsetting Receipts (950):
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, -$95,229,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$95,229,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, -$93,401,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$93,401,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, -$95,479,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$95,479,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, -$98,956,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$98,956,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, -$101,293,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$101,293,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, -$102,309,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$102,309,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, -$111,119,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$111,119,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, -$124,766,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$124,766,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, -$128,332,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$128,332,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2027:
       (A) New budget authority, -$141,303,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$141,303,000,000.
       (21) Overseas Contingency Operations (970):
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, $76,591,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $43,121,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $50,000,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $48,676,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $25,000,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $34,675,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $12,000,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $20,684,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $0.
       (B) Outlays, $8,901,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $0.
       (B) Outlays, $3,053,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $0.
       (B) Outlays, $946,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $0.
       (B) Outlays, $264,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $0.
       (B) Outlays, $0.
       Fiscal year 2027:
       (A) New budget authority, $0.
       (B) Outlays, $0.

              Subtitle B--Levels and Amounts in the Senate

     SEC. 1201. SOCIAL SECURITY IN THE SENATE.

       (a) Social Security Revenues.--For purposes of Senate 
     enforcement under sections 302 and 311 of the Congressional 
     Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 633 and 642), the amounts of 
     revenues of the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust 
     Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund are as 
     follows:
       Fiscal year 2018: $873,312,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019: $903,381,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020: $932,055,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021: $962,698,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022: $996,127,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023: $1,031,653,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024: $1,068,529,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025: $1,106,862,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026: $1,146,803,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2027: $1,188,060,000,000.
       (b) Social Security Outlays.--For purposes of Senate 
     enforcement under sections 302 and 311 of the Congressional 
     Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 633 and 642), the amounts of 
     outlays of the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust 
     Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund are as 
     follows:
       Fiscal year 2018: $849,609,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019: $909,109,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020: $972,776,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021: $1,040,108,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022: $1,111,446,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023: $1,188,081,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024: $1,266,786,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025: $1,349,334,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026: $1,437,032,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2027: $1,530,362,000,000.
       (c) Social Security Administrative Expenses.--In the 
     Senate, the amounts of new budget authority and budget 
     outlays of the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust 
     Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund for 
     administrative expenses are as follows:
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, $5,553,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $5,584,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $5,716,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $5,713,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $5,888,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $5,856,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $6,062,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $6,029,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $6,241,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $6,207,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $6,426,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $6,392,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $6,617,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $6,581,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $6,816,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $6,779,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $7,024,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $6,985,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2027:
       (A) New budget authority, $7,233,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $7,194,000,000.

     SEC. 1202. POSTAL SERVICE DISCRETIONARY ADMINISTRATIVE 
                   EXPENSES IN THE SENATE.

       In the Senate, the amounts of new budget authority and 
     budget outlays of the Postal Service for discretionary 
     administrative expenses are as follows:
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, $281,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $281,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $290,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $290,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $301,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $301,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $311,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $311,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $322,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $322,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $333,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $333,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $344,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $343,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $356,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $355,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $369,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $368,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2027:
       (A) New budget authority, $380,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $379,000,000.

                        TITLE II--RECONCILIATION

     SEC. 2001. RECONCILIATION IN THE SENATE.

       (a) Committee on Finance.--The Committee on Finance of the 
     Senate shall report changes in laws within its jurisdiction 
     that increase the deficit by not more than $1,500,000,000,000 
     for the period of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
       (b) Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.--The 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate shall 
     report changes in laws within its jurisdiction to reduce the 
     deficit by not less than $1,000,000,000 for the period of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
       (c) Submissions.--In the Senate, not later than November 
     13, 2017, the Committees named in subsections (a) and (b) 
     shall submit their recommendations to the Committee on the 
     Budget of the Senate. Upon receiving such recommendations, 
     the Committee on the Budget of the Senate shall report to the 
     Senate a reconciliation bill carrying out all such 
     recommendations without any substantive revision.

     SEC. 2002. RECONCILIATION IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.

       (a) Committee on Ways and Means.--The Committee on Ways and 
     Means of the House of Representatives shall submit changes in 
     laws within its jurisdiction that increase the deficit by not 
     more than $1,500,000,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 
     2018 through 2027.
       (b) Committee on Natural Resources.--The Committee on 
     Natural Resources of the House of Representatives shall 
     submit changes in laws within its jurisdiction to reduce the 
     deficit by not less than $1,000,000,000 for the period of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
       (c) Submissions.--In the House of Representatives, not 
     later than November 13, 2017, the committees named in 
     subsections (a) and (b) shall submit their recommendations to 
     the Committee on the Budget of the House of Representatives 
     to carry out this section.

                        TITLE III--RESERVE FUNDS

     SEC. 3001. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND TO PROTECT FLEXIBLE 
                   AND AFFORDABLE HEALTH CARE FOR ALL.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     repealing or replacing the Patient Protection and Affordable 
     Care Act (Public Law 111-148; 124 Stat. 119) and the

[[Page S6570]]

     Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (Public 
     Law 111-152; 124 Stat. 1029), by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over the period of 
     the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.

     SEC. 3002. REVENUE-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND TO REFORM THE 
                   AMERICAN TAX SYSTEM.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     reforming the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, which may 
     include--
       (1) tax relief for middle-income working Americans;
       (2) lowering taxes on families with children; or
       (3) incentivizing companies to invest domestically and 
     create jobs in the United States,
     by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation is revenue neutral 
     and would not increase the deficit over the period of the 
     total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.

     SEC. 3003. RESERVE FUND FOR RECONCILIATION LEGISLATION.

       (a) In General.--The Chairman of the Committee on the 
     Budget of the Senate may revise the allocations of a 
     committee or committees, aggregates, and other appropriate 
     levels in this resolution, and make adjustments to the pay-
     as-you-go ledger, for any bill or joint resolution considered 
     pursuant to section 2001 containing the recommendations of 
     one or more committees, or for one or more amendments to, a 
     conference report on, or an amendment between the Houses in 
     relation to such a bill or joint resolution, by the amounts 
     necessary to accommodate the budgetary effects of the 
     legislation, if the budgetary effects of the legislation 
     comply with the reconciliation instructions under this 
     concurrent resolution.
       (b) Determination of Compliance.--For purposes of this 
     section, compliance with the reconciliation instructions 
     under this concurrent resolution shall be determined by the 
     Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate.
       (c) Exception for Legislation.--Section 404(a) of S. Con. 
     Res. 13 (111th Congress), the concurrent resolution on the 
     budget for fiscal year 2010, shall not apply to legislation 
     for which the Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the 
     Senate has exercised the authority under subsection (a).

     SEC. 3004. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND FOR EXTENDING THE 
                   STATE CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to an 
     extension of the State Children's Health Insurance Program, 
     by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2027.

     SEC. 3005. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND TO STRENGTHEN 
                   AMERICAN FAMILIES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to--
       (1) addressing the opioid and substance abuse crisis;
       (2) protecting and assisting victims of domestic abuse;
       (3) foster care, child care, marriage, and fatherhood 
     programs;
       (4) making it easier to save for retirement;
       (5) reforming the American public housing system;
       (6) the Community Development Block Grant Program; or
       (7) extending expiring health care provisions,
     by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2027.

     SEC. 3006. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND TO PROMOTE INNOVATIVE 
                   EDUCATIONAL AND NUTRITIONAL MODELS AND SYSTEMS 
                   FOR AMERICAN STUDENTS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to--
       (1) amending the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
     1001 et seq.);
       (2) ensuring State flexibility in education;
       (3) enhancing outcomes with Federal workforce development, 
     job training, and reemployment programs;
       (4) the consolidation and streamlining of overlapping early 
     learning and child care programs;
       (5) educational programs for individuals with disabilities; 
     or
       (6) child nutrition programs,
     by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2027.

     SEC. 3007. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND TO IMPROVE THE 
                   AMERICAN BANKING SYSTEM.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to the 
     American banking system by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.

     SEC. 3008. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND TO PROMOTE AMERICAN 
                   AGRICULTURE, ENERGY, TRANSPORTATION, AND 
                   INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to--
       (1) the Farm Bill;
       (2) American energy policies;
       (3) the Nuclear Regulatory Commission;
       (4) North American energy development;
       (5) infrastructure, transportation, and water development;
       (6) the Federal Aviation Administration;
       (7) the National Flood Insurance Program;
       (8) State mineral royalty revenues; or
       (9) soda ash royalties,
     by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2027.

     SEC. 3009. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND TO RESTORE AMERICAN 
                   MILITARY POWER.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to--
       (1) improving military readiness, including deferred 
     Facilities Sustainment Restoration and Modernization;
       (2) military technological superiority;
       (3) structural defense reforms; or
       (4) strengthening cybersecurity efforts,
     by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2027.

     SEC. 3010. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND FOR VETERANS AND 
                   SERVICE MEMBERS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     improving the delivery of benefits and services to veterans 
     and service members by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.

     SEC. 3011. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND FOR PUBLIC LANDS AND 
                   THE ENVIRONMENT.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to--
       (1) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et 
     seq.);
       (2) forest health and wildfire prevention and control;
       (3) resources for wildland firefighting for the Forest 
     Service and Department of Interior;
       (4) the payments in lieu of taxes program; or
       (5) the secure rural schools and community self-
     determination program,
     by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years

[[Page S6571]]

     2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 
     2018 through 2027.

     SEC. 3012. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND TO SECURE THE 
                   AMERICAN BORDER.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to--
       (1) securing the border of the United States;
       (2) ending human trafficking; or
       (3) stopping the transportation of narcotics into the 
     United States,
     by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2027.

     SEC. 3013. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND TO PROMOTE ECONOMIC 
                   GROWTH, THE PRIVATE SECTOR, AND TO ENHANCE JOB 
                   CREATION.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to--
       (1) reducing costs to businesses and individuals stemming 
     from Federal regulations;
       (2) increasing commerce and economic growth; or
       (3) enhancing job creation,
     by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2027.

     SEC. 3014. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND FOR LEGISLATION 
                   MODIFYING STATUTORY BUDGETARY CONTROLS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     modifying statutory budget controls, which may include 
     adjustments to the discretionary spending limits and changes 
     to the scope of sequestration as carried out by the Office of 
     Management and Budget, such as for the Financial Accounting 
     Standards Board, Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, 
     Securities Investor Protection Corporation, and other similar 
     entities, by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2027.

     SEC. 3015. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND TO PREVENT THE 
                   TAXPAYER BAILOUT OF PENSION PLANS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to the 
     prevention of taxpayer bailout of pension plans, by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.

     SEC. 3016. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   IMPLEMENTING WORK REQUIREMENTS IN ALL MEANS-
                   TESTED FEDERAL WELFARE PROGRAMS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     implementing work requirements in all means-tested Federal 
     welfare programs by the amounts provided in such legislation 
     for those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.

     SEC. 3017. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND TO PROTECT MEDICARE 
                   AND REPEAL THE INDEPENDENT PAYMENT ADVISORY 
                   BOARD.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     protecting the Medicare program under title XVIII of the 
     Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.), which may 
     include repealing the Independent Payment Advisory Board 
     established under section 1899A of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
     1395kkk), by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.

     SEC. 3018. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   AFFORDABLE CHILD AND DEPENDENT CARE.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to making 
     the cost of child and dependent care more affordable and 
     useful for American families by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.

     SEC. 3019. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO WORKER 
                   TRAINING PROGRAMS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to worker 
     training programs, such as training programs that target 
     workers that need advanced skills to progress in their 
     current profession or apprenticeship or certificate programs 
     that provide retraining for a new industry, by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.

     SEC. 3020. RESERVE FUND FOR LEGISLATION TO PROVIDE DISASTER 
                   FUNDS FOR RELIEF AND RECOVERY EFFORTS TO AREAS 
                   DEVASTATED BY HURRICANES AND FLOODING IN 2017.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     providing disaster funds for relief and recovery to areas 
     devastated by hurricanes and flooding in 2017, by the amounts 
     necessary to accommodate the budgetary effects of the 
     legislation.

                        TITLE IV--BUDGET PROCESS

                     Subtitle A--Budget Enforcement

     SEC. 4101. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST ADVANCE APPROPRIATIONS IN 
                   THE SENATE.

       (a) In General.--
       (1) Point of order.--Except as provided in subsection (b), 
     it shall not be in order in the Senate to consider any bill, 
     joint resolution, motion, amendment, amendment between the 
     Houses, or conference report that would provide an advance 
     appropriation for a discretionary account.
       (2) Definition.--In this section, the term ``advance 
     appropriation'' means any new budget authority provided in a 
     bill or joint resolution making appropriations for fiscal 
     year 2018 that first becomes available for any fiscal year 
     after 2018, or any new budget authority provided in a bill or 
     joint resolution making general appropriations or continuing 
     appropriations for fiscal year 2019, that first becomes 
     available for any fiscal year after 2019.
       (b) Exceptions.--Advance appropriations may be provided--
       (1) for fiscal years 2019 and 2020 for programs, projects, 
     activities, or accounts identified in the joint explanatory 
     statement of managers accompanying this concurrent resolution 
     under the heading ``Accounts Identified for Advance 
     Appropriations'' in an aggregate amount not to exceed 
     $28,852,000,000 in new budget authority in each fiscal year;
       (2) for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting; and
       (3) for the Department of Veterans Affairs for the Medical 
     Services, Medical Support and Compliance, Veterans Medical 
     Community Care, and Medical Facilities accounts of the 
     Veterans Health Administration.
       (c) Supermajority Waiver and Appeal.--
       (1) Waiver.--In the Senate, subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended only by an affirmative vote of three-fifths of the 
     Members, duly chosen and sworn.
       (2) Appeal.--An affirmative vote of three-fifths of the 
     Members of the Senate, duly chosen and sworn, shall be 
     required to sustain an appeal of the ruling of the Chair on a 
     point of order raised under subsection (a).
       (d) Form of Point of Order.--A point of order under 
     subsection (a) may be raised by a Senator as provided in 
     section 313(e) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 
     U.S.C. 644(e)).
       (e) Conference Reports.--When the Senate is considering a 
     conference report on, or an amendment between the Houses in 
     relation to, a bill or joint resolution, upon a point of 
     order being made by any Senator pursuant to this section, and 
     such point of order being sustained, such material contained 
     in such conference report or House amendment shall be 
     stricken, and the Senate shall proceed to consider the 
     question of

[[Page S6572]]

     whether the Senate shall recede from its amendment and concur 
     with a further amendment, or concur in the House amendment 
     with a further amendment, as the case may be, which further 
     amendment shall consist of only that portion of the 
     conference report or House amendment, as the case may be, not 
     so stricken. Any such motion in the Senate shall be 
     debatable. In any case in which such point of order is 
     sustained against a conference report (or Senate amendment 
     derived from such conference report by operation of this 
     subsection), no further amendment shall be in order.

     SEC. 4102. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST CERTAIN CHANGES IN 
                   MANDATORY PROGRAMS.

       (a) Definition.--In this section, the term ``CHIMP'' means 
     a provision that--
       (1) would have been estimated as affecting direct spending 
     or receipts under section 252 of the Balanced Budget and 
     Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 902) (as in 
     effect prior to September 30, 2002) if the provision was 
     included in legislation other than appropriation Acts; and
       (2) results in a net decrease in budget authority in the 
     budget year, but does not result in a net decrease in outlays 
     over the period of the total of the current year, the budget 
     year, and all fiscal years covered under the most recently 
     adopted concurrent resolution on the budget.
       (b) Point of Order in the Senate.--
       (1) In general.--It shall not be in order in the Senate to 
     consider a bill or joint resolution making appropriations for 
     a full fiscal year, or an amendment thereto, amendment 
     between the Houses in relation thereto, conference report 
     thereon, or motion thereon, that includes a CHIMP that, if 
     enacted, would cause the absolute value of the total budget 
     authority of all such CHIMPs enacted in relation to a full 
     fiscal year to be more than the amount specified in paragraph 
     (2).
       (2) Amount.--The amount specified in this paragraph is--
       (A) for fiscal year 2018, $17,000,000,000;
       (B) for fiscal year 2019, $15,000,000,000; and
       (C) for fiscal year 2020, $15,000,000,000.
       (c) Determination.--For purposes of this section, budgetary 
     levels shall be determined on the basis of estimates provided 
     by the Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate.
       (d) Supermajority Waiver and Appeal in the Senate.--In the 
     Senate, subsection (b) may be waived or suspended only by an 
     affirmative vote of three-fifths of the Members, duly chosen 
     and sworn. An affirmative vote of three-fifths of the Members 
     of the Senate, duly chosen and sworn, shall be required to 
     sustain an appeal of the ruling of the Chair on a point of 
     order raised under subsection (b).
       (e) Senate Point of Order Against Provisions of 
     Appropriations Legislation That Constitute Changes in 
     Mandatory Programs With Net Costs.--
       (1) In general.--Section 3103 of S. Con. Res. 11 (114th 
     Congress), the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal 
     year 2016, is repealed.
       (2) Applicability.--In the Senate, section 314 of S. Con. 
     Res. 70 (110th Congress), the concurrent resolution on the 
     budget for fiscal year 2009, shall be applied and 
     administered as if section 3103(e) of S. Con. Res. 11 (114th 
     Congress), the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal 
     year 2016, had not been enacted.

     SEC. 4103. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST PROVISIONS THAT CONSTITUTE 
                   CHANGES IN MANDATORY PROGRAMS AFFECTING THE 
                   CRIME VICTIMS FUND.

       (a) Definition.--In this section--
       (1) the term ``CHIMP'' has the meaning given such term in 
     section 4102(a); and
       (2) the term ``Crime Victims Fund'' means the Crime Victims 
     Fund established under section 1402 of the Victims of Crime 
     Act of 1984 (34 U.S.C. 20101).
       (b) Point of Order in the Senate.--
       (1) In general.--When the Senate is considering a bill or 
     joint resolution making full-year appropriations for fiscal 
     year 2018, or an amendment thereto, amendment between the 
     Houses in relation thereto, conference report thereon, or 
     motion thereon, if a point of order is made by a Senator 
     against a provision containing a CHIMP affecting the Crime 
     Victims Fund that, if enacted, would cause the absolute value 
     of the total budget authority of all CHIMPs affecting the 
     Crime Victims Fund in relation to fiscal year 2018 to be more 
     than $11,224,000,000, and the point of order is sustained by 
     the Chair, that provision shall be stricken from the measure 
     and may not be offered as an amendment from the floor.
       (2) Form of the point of order.--A point of order under 
     paragraph (1) may be raised by a Senator as provided in 
     section 313(e) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 
     U.S.C. 644(e)).
       (3) Conference reports.--When the Senate is considering a 
     conference report on, or an amendment between the Houses in 
     relation to, a bill or joint resolution, upon a point of 
     order being made by any Senator pursuant to paragraph (1), 
     and such point of order being sustained, such material 
     contained in such conference report or House amendment shall 
     be stricken, and the Senate shall proceed to consider the 
     question of whether the Senate shall recede from its 
     amendment and concur with a further amendment, or concur in 
     the House amendment with a further amendment, as the case may 
     be, which further amendment shall consist of only that 
     portion of the conference report or House amendment, as the 
     case may be, not so stricken. Any such motion in the Senate 
     shall be debatable. In any case in which such point of order 
     is sustained against a conference report (or Senate amendment 
     derived from such conference report by operation of this 
     subsection), no further amendment shall be in order.
       (4) Supermajority waiver and appeal.--In the Senate, this 
     subsection may be waived or suspended only by an affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. 
     An affirmative vote of three-fifths of Members of the Senate, 
     duly chosen and sworn shall be required to sustain an appeal 
     of the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     this subsection.
       (5) Determination.--For purposes of this subsection, 
     budgetary levels shall be determined on the basis of 
     estimates provided by the Chairman of the Committee on the 
     Budget of the Senate.
       (c) Review of Procedures Regarding Chimps.--The Committee 
     on the Budget and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
     Senate shall review existing budget enforcement procedures 
     regarding CHIMPs included in appropriations legislation. 
     These committees of jurisdiction should consult with other 
     relevant committees of jurisdiction and other interested 
     parties to review such procedures, including for Crime 
     Victims Fund spending, and include any agreed upon 
     recommendations in subsequent concurrent resolutions on the 
     budget.

     SEC. 4104. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST DESIGNATION OF FUNDS FOR 
                   OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.

       (a) Point of Order.--When the Senate is considering a bill, 
     joint resolution, motion, amendment, amendment between the 
     Houses, or conference report, if a point of order is made by 
     a Senator against a provision that designates funds for 
     fiscal year 2018 for overseas contingency operations, in 
     accordance with section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget 
     and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 
     901(b)(2)(A)), and the point of order is sustained by the 
     Chair, that provision shall be stricken from the measure and 
     may not be offered as an amendment from the floor.
       (b) Form of the Point of Order.--A point of order under 
     subsection (a) may be raised by a Senator as provided in 
     section 313(e) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 
     U.S.C. 644(e)).
       (c) Conference Reports.--When the Senate is considering a 
     conference report on, or an amendment between the Houses in 
     relation to, a bill or joint resolution, upon a point of 
     order being made by any Senator pursuant to subsection (a), 
     and such point of order being sustained, such material 
     contained in such conference report or House amendment shall 
     be stricken, and the Senate shall proceed to consider the 
     question of whether the Senate shall recede from its 
     amendment and concur with a further amendment, or concur in 
     the House amendment with a further amendment, as the case may 
     be, which further amendment shall consist of only that 
     portion of the conference report or House amendment, as the 
     case may be, not so stricken. Any such motion in the Senate 
     shall be debatable. In any case in which such point of order 
     is sustained against a conference report (or Senate amendment 
     derived from such conference report by operation of this 
     subsection), no further amendment shall be in order.
       (d) Supermajority Waiver and Appeal.--In the Senate, this 
     section may be waived or suspended only by an affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members, duly chose and sworn. An 
     affirmative vote of three-fifths of Members of the Senate, 
     duly chosen and sworn shall be required to sustain an appeal 
     of the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     this section.
       (e) Suspension of Point of Order.--This section shall not 
     apply if a declaration of war by Congress is in effect.

     SEC. 4105. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST RECONCILIATION AMENDMENTS 
                   WITH UNKNOWN BUDGETARY EFFECTS.

       (a) In General.--In the Senate, it shall not be in order to 
     consider an amendment to or motion on a bill or joint 
     resolution considered pursuant to section 2001 if the 
     Chairman of the Committee on the Budget submits a written 
     statement for the Congressional Record indicating that the 
     Chairman, after consultation with the Ranking Member of the 
     Committee on the Budget, is unable to determine the effect 
     the amendment or motion would have on budget authority, 
     outlays, direct spending, entitlement authority, revenues, 
     deficits, or surpluses.
       (b) Supermajority Waiver and Appeal in the Senate.--In the 
     Senate, subsection (a) may be waived or suspended only by an 
     affirmative vote of three-fifths of the Members, duly chosen 
     and sworn. An affirmative vote of three-fifths of the Members 
     of the Senate, duly chosen and sworn, shall be required to 
     sustain an appeal of the ruling of the Chair on a point of 
     order raised under subsection (a).

     SEC. 4106. PAY-AS-YOU-GO POINT OF ORDER IN THE SENATE.

       (a) Point of Order.--
       (1) In general.--It shall not be in order in the Senate to 
     consider any direct spending or revenue legislation that 
     would increase the on-budget deficit or cause an on-budget 
     deficit for any of the applicable time periods as measured in 
     paragraphs (5) and (6).
       (2) Applicable time periods.--For purposes of this 
     subsection, the term ``applicable time period'' means any 
     of--
       (A) the period of the current fiscal year;
       (B) the period of the budget year;

[[Page S6573]]

       (C) the period of the current fiscal year, the budget year, 
     and the ensuing 4 fiscal years following the budget year; or
       (D) the period of the current fiscal year, the budget year, 
     and the ensuing 9 fiscal years following the budget year.
       (3) Direct spending legislation.--For purposes of this 
     subsection and except as provided in paragraph (4), the term 
     ``direct spending legislation'' means any bill, joint 
     resolution, amendment, motion, or conference report that 
     affects direct spending as that term is defined by, and 
     interpreted for purposes of, the Balanced Budget and 
     Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 900 et seq.).
       (4) Exclusion.--For purposes of this subsection, the terms 
     ``direct spending legislation'' and ``revenue legislation'' 
     do not include--
       (A) any concurrent resolution on the budget; or
       (B) any provision of legislation that affects the full 
     funding of, and continuation of, the deposit insurance 
     guarantee commitment in effect on November 5, 1990.
       (5) Baseline.--Estimates prepared pursuant to this 
     subsection shall--
       (A) use the baseline surplus or deficit used for the most 
     recently adopted concurrent resolution on the budget; and
       (B) be calculated under the requirements of subsections (b) 
     through (d) of section 257 of the Balanced Budget and 
     Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (as in effect prior to 
     September 30, 2002) for fiscal years beyond those covered by 
     that concurrent resolution on the budget.
       (6) Prior surplus.--If direct spending or revenue 
     legislation increases the on-budget deficit or causes an on-
     budget deficit when taken individually, it must also increase 
     the on-budget deficit or cause an on-budget deficit when 
     taken together with all direct spending and revenue 
     legislation enacted since the beginning of the calendar year 
     not accounted for in the baseline under paragraph (5)(A), 
     except that direct spending or revenue effects resulting in 
     net deficit reduction enacted in any bill pursuant to a 
     reconciliation instruction since the beginning of that same 
     calendar year shall never be made available on the pay-as-
     you-go ledger and shall be dedicated only for deficit 
     reduction.
       (b) Supermajority Waiver and Appeals.--
       (1) Waiver.--This section may be waived or suspended in the 
     Senate only by the affirmative vote of three-fifths of the 
     Members, duly chosen and sworn.
       (2) Appeals.--Appeals in the Senate from the decisions of 
     the Chair relating to any provision of this section shall be 
     limited to 1 hour, to be equally divided between, and 
     controlled by, the appellant and the manager of the bill or 
     joint resolution, as the case may be. An affirmative vote of 
     three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly chosen and 
     sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of the ruling 
     of the Chair on a point of order raised under this section.
       (c) Determination of Budget Levels.--For purposes of this 
     section, the levels of new budget authority, outlays, and 
     revenues for a fiscal year shall be determined on the basis 
     of estimates made by the Senate Committee on the Budget.
       (d) Repeal.--In the Senate, section 201 of S. Con. Res. 21 
     (110th Congress), the concurrent resolution on the budget for 
     fiscal year 2008, shall no longer apply.

     SEC. 4107. HONEST ACCOUNTING: COST ESTIMATES FOR MAJOR 
                   LEGISLATION TO INCORPORATE MACROECONOMIC 
                   EFFECTS.

       (a) CBO and JCT Estimates.--During the 115th Congress, any 
     estimate provided by the Congressional Budget Office under 
     section 402 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 
     653) or by the Joint Committee on Taxation to the 
     Congressional Budget Office under section 201(f) of such Act 
     (2 U.S.C. 601(f)) for major legislation considered in the 
     Senate shall, to the greatest extent practicable, incorporate 
     the budgetary effects of changes in economic output, 
     employment, capital stock, and other macroeconomic variables 
     resulting from such major legislation.
       (b) Contents.--Any estimate referred to in subsection (a) 
     shall, to the extent practicable, include--
       (1) a qualitative assessment of the budgetary effects 
     (including macroeconomic variables described in subsection 
     (a)) of the major legislation in the 20-fiscal year period 
     beginning after the last fiscal year of the most recently 
     agreed to concurrent resolution on the budget that sets forth 
     budgetary levels required under section 301 of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 632); and
       (2) an identification of the critical assumptions and the 
     source of data underlying that estimate.
       (c) Distributional Effects.--Any estimate referred to in 
     subsection (a) shall, to the extent practicable, include the 
     distributional effects across income categories resulting 
     from major legislation.
       (d) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) Major legislation.--The term ``major legislation'' 
     means a bill, joint resolution, conference report, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or treaty considered in the 
     Senate--
       (A) for which an estimate is required to be prepared 
     pursuant to section 402 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
     1974 (2 U.S.C. 653) and that causes a gross budgetary effect 
     (before incorporating macroeconomic effects and not including 
     timing shifts) in a fiscal year in the period of years of the 
     most recently agreed to concurrent resolution on the budget 
     equal to or greater than--
       (i) 0.25 percent of the current projected gross domestic 
     product of the United States for that fiscal year; or
       (ii) for a treaty, equal to or greater than $15,000,000,000 
     for that fiscal year; or
       (B) designated as such by--
       (i) the Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the 
     Senate for all direct spending and revenue legislation; or
       (ii) the Senator who is Chairman or Vice Chairman of the 
     Joint Committee on Taxation for revenue legislation.
       (2) Budgetary effects.--The term ``budgetary effects'' 
     means changes in revenues, direct spending outlays, and 
     deficits.
       (3) Timing shifts.--The term ``timing shifts'' means--
       (A) provisions that cause a delay of the date on which 
     outlays flowing from direct spending would otherwise occur 
     from one fiscal year to the next fiscal year; or
       (B) provisions that cause an acceleration of the date on 
     which revenues would otherwise occur from one fiscal year to 
     the prior fiscal year.

     SEC. 4108. ADJUSTMENT AUTHORITY FOR AMENDMENTS TO STATUTORY 
                   CAPS.

       If a measure becomes law that amends the discretionary 
     spending limits established under section 251(c) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 
     U.S.C. 901(c)), such as a measure increasing the limit for 
     the revised security category for fiscal year 2018 to be 
     $640,000,000,000, the Chairman of the Committee on the Budget 
     of the Senate may adjust the allocation called for under 
     section 302(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 
     U.S.C. 633(a)) to the appropriate committee or committees of 
     the Senate, and may adjust all other budgetary aggregates, 
     allocations, levels, and limits contained in this resolution, 
     as necessary, consistent with such measure.

     SEC. 4109. ADJUSTMENT FOR WILDFIRE SUPPRESSION FUNDING IN THE 
                   SENATE.

       If a measure becomes law that amends the adjustments to 
     discretionary spending limits established under section 
     251(b) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
     Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901(b)) to provide for wildfire 
     suppression funding, which may include criteria for making 
     such an adjustment, the Chairman of the Committee on the 
     Budget of the Senate may adjust the allocation called for in 
     section 302(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 
     U.S.C. 633(a)) to the appropriate committee or committees of 
     the Senate, and may adjust all other budgetary aggregates, 
     allocations, levels, and limits contained in this concurrent 
     resolution, as necessary, consistent with such measure.

     SEC. 4110. ADJUSTMENT FOR IMPROVED OVERSIGHT OF SPENDING.

       (a) Adjustments of Direct Spending Levels.--If a measure 
     becomes law that decreases direct spending (budget authority 
     and outlays flowing therefrom) for any fiscal year and 
     provides for an authorization of appropriations for the same 
     purpose, the Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the 
     Senate may decrease the allocation to the committee of the 
     Senate with jurisdiction of the direct spending by an amount 
     equal to the amount of the decrease in direct spending.
       (b) Determinations.--For purposes of this section, the 
     levels of budget authority and outlays shall be determined on 
     the basis of estimates submitted by the Chairman of the 
     Committee on the Budget of the Senate.

     SEC. 4111. REPEAL OF CERTAIN LIMITATIONS.

       Sections 3205 and 3206 of S. Con. Res. 11 (114th Congress), 
     the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2016, 
     are repealed.

     SEC. 4112. EMERGENCY LEGISLATION.

       (a) Authority to Designate.--In the Senate, with respect to 
     a provision of direct spending or receipts legislation or 
     appropriations for discretionary accounts that Congress 
     designates as an emergency requirement in such measure, the 
     amounts of new budget authority, outlays, and receipts in all 
     fiscal years resulting from that provision shall be treated 
     as an emergency requirement for the purpose of this section.
       (b) Exemption of Emergency Provisions.--Any new budget 
     authority, outlays, and receipts resulting from any provision 
     designated as an emergency requirement, pursuant to this 
     section, in any bill, joint resolution, amendment, amendment 
     between the Houses, or conference report shall not count for 
     purposes of sections 302 and 311 of the Congressional Budget 
     Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 633 and 642), section 4106 of this 
     resolution, section 3101 of S. Con. Res. 11 (114th Congress), 
     the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2016, 
     and sections 401 and 404 of S. Con. Res. 13 (111th Congress), 
     the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2010. 
     Designated emergency provisions shall not count for the 
     purpose of revising allocations, aggregates, or other levels 
     pursuant to procedures established under section 301(b)(7) of 
     the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 632(b)(7)) for 
     deficit-neutral reserve funds and revising discretionary 
     spending limits set pursuant to section 301 of S. Con. Res. 
     13 (111th Congress), the concurrent resolution on the budget 
     for fiscal year 2010.
       (c) Designations.--If a provision of legislation is 
     designated as an emergency requirement under this section, 
     the committee report and any statement of managers 
     accompanying that legislation shall include an explanation of 
     the manner in which the provision meets the criteria in 
     subsection (f).

[[Page S6574]]

       (d) Definitions.--In this section, the terms ``direct 
     spending'', ``receipts'', and ``appropriations for 
     discretionary accounts'' mean any provision of a bill, joint 
     resolution, amendment, motion, amendment between the Houses, 
     or conference report that affects direct spending, receipts, 
     or appropriations as those terms have been defined and 
     interpreted for purposes of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 900 et seq.).
       (e) Point of Order.--
       (1) In general.--When the Senate is considering a bill, 
     resolution, amendment, motion, amendment between the Houses, 
     or conference report, if a point of order is made by a 
     Senator against an emergency designation in that measure, 
     that provision making such a designation shall be stricken 
     from the measure and may not be offered as an amendment from 
     the floor.
       (2) Supermajority waiver and appeals.--
       (A) Waiver.--Paragraph (1) may be waived or suspended in 
     the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-fifths of the 
     Members, duly chosen and sworn.
       (B) Appeals.--Appeals in the Senate from the decisions of 
     the Chair relating to any provision of this subsection shall 
     be limited to 1 hour, to be equally divided between, and 
     controlled by, the appellant and the manager of the bill or 
     joint resolution, as the case may be. An affirmative vote of 
     three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly chosen and 
     sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of the ruling 
     of the Chair on a point of order raised under this 
     subsection.
       (3) Definition of an emergency designation.--For purposes 
     of paragraph (1), a provision shall be considered an 
     emergency designation if it designates any item as an 
     emergency requirement pursuant to this subsection.
       (4) Form of the point of order.--A point of order under 
     paragraph (1) may be raised by a Senator as provided in 
     section 313(e) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 
     U.S.C. 644(e)).
       (5) Conference reports.--When the Senate is considering a 
     conference report on, or an amendment between the Houses in 
     relation to, a bill, upon a point of order being made by any 
     Senator pursuant to this section, and such point of order 
     being sustained, such material contained in such conference 
     report shall be stricken, and the Senate shall proceed to 
     consider the question of whether the Senate shall recede from 
     its amendment and concur with a further amendment, or concur 
     in the House amendment with a further amendment, as the case 
     may be, which further amendment shall consist of only that 
     portion of the conference report or House amendment, as the 
     case may be, not so stricken. Any such motion in the Senate 
     shall be debatable. In any case in which such point of order 
     is sustained against a conference report (or Senate amendment 
     derived from such conference report by operation of this 
     subsection), no further amendment shall be in order.
       (f) Criteria.--
       (1) In general.--For purposes of this section, any 
     provision is an emergency requirement if the situation 
     addressed by such provision is--
       (A) necessary, essential, or vital (not merely useful or 
     beneficial);
       (B) sudden, quickly coming into being, and not building up 
     over time;
       (C) an urgent, pressing, and compelling need requiring 
     immediate action;
       (D) subject to paragraph (2), unforeseen, unpredictable, 
     and unanticipated; and
       (E) not permanent, temporary in nature.
       (2) Unforeseen.--An emergency that is part of an aggregate 
     level of anticipated emergencies, particularly when normally 
     estimated in advance, is not unforeseen.
       (g) Inapplicability.--In the Senate, section 403 of S. Con. 
     Res. 13 (111th Congress), the concurrent resolution on the 
     budget for fiscal year 2010, shall no longer apply.

     SEC. 4113. ENFORCEMENT FILING IN THE SENATE.

       If this concurrent resolution on the budget is agreed to by 
     the Senate and House of Representatives without the 
     appointment of a committee of conference on the disagreeing 
     votes of the two Houses, the Chairman of the Committee on the 
     Budget of the Senate may submit a statement for publication 
     in the Congressional Record containing--
       (1) for the Committee on Appropriations, committee 
     allocations for fiscal year 2018 consistent with the levels 
     in title I for the purpose of enforcing section 302 of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 633);
       (2) for all committees other than the Committee on 
     Appropriations, committee allocations for fiscal years 2018, 
     2018 through 2022, and 2018 through 2027 consistent with the 
     levels in title I for the purpose of enforcing section 302 of 
     the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 633); and
       (3) a list of programs, projects, activities, or accounts 
     identified for advanced appropriations that would have been 
     identified in the joint explanatory statement of managers 
     accompanying this concurrent resolution.

                      Subtitle B--Other Provisions

     SEC. 4201. OVERSIGHT OF GOVERNMENT PERFORMANCE.

       In the Senate, all committees are directed to review 
     programs and tax expenditures within their jurisdiction to 
     identify waste, fraud, abuse or duplication, and increase the 
     use of performance data to inform committee work. Committees 
     are also directed to review the matters for congressional 
     consideration identified in the Office of Inspector General 
     semiannual reports and the Office of Inspector General's list 
     of unimplemented recommendations and on the Government 
     Accountability Office's High Risk list and the annual report 
     to reduce program duplication. Based on these oversight 
     efforts and performance reviews of programs within their 
     jurisdiction, committees are directed to include 
     recommendations for improved governmental performance in 
     their annual views and estimates reports required under 
     section 301(d) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 
     U.S.C. 632(d)) to the Committees on the Budget.

     SEC. 4202. BUDGETARY TREATMENT OF CERTAIN DISCRETIONARY 
                   ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.

       In the Senate, notwithstanding section 302(a)(1) of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 633(a)(1)), 
     section 13301 of the Budget Enforcement Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 
     632 note), and section 2009a of title 39, United States Code, 
     the joint explanatory statement accompanying the conference 
     report on any concurrent resolution on the budget shall 
     include in its allocations under section 302(a) of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 633(a)) to the 
     Committees on Appropriations amounts for the discretionary 
     administrative expenses of the Social Security Administration 
     and of the Postal Service.

     SEC. 4203. APPLICATION AND EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ALLOCATIONS 
                   AND AGGREGATES.

       (a) Application.--Any adjustments of allocations and 
     aggregates made pursuant to this resolution shall--
       (1) apply while that measure is under consideration;
       (2) take effect upon the enactment of that measure; and
       (3) be published in the Congressional Record as soon as 
     practicable.
       (b) Effect of Changed Allocations and Aggregates.--Revised 
     allocations and aggregates resulting from these adjustments 
     shall be considered for the purposes of the Congressional 
     Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 621 et seq.) as allocations and 
     aggregates contained in this resolution.
       (c) Budget Committee Determinations.--For purposes of this 
     resolution the levels of new budget authority, outlays, 
     direct spending, new entitlement authority, revenues, 
     deficits, and surpluses for a fiscal year or period of fiscal 
     years shall be determined on the basis of estimates made by 
     the Committee on the Budget of the Senate.

     SEC. 4204. ADJUSTMENTS TO REFLECT CHANGES IN CONCEPTS AND 
                   DEFINITIONS.

       Upon the enactment of a bill or joint resolution providing 
     for a change in concepts or definitions, the Chairman of the 
     Committee on the Budget of the Senate may make adjustments to 
     the levels and allocations in this resolution in accordance 
     with section 251(b) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901(b)).

     SEC. 4205. ADJUSTMENTS TO REFLECT LEGISLATION NOT INCLUDED IN 
                   THE BASELINE.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may make adjustments to the levels and allocations in this 
     resolution to reflect legislation enacted before the date on 
     which this resolution is agreed to by Congress that is not 
     incorporated in the baseline underlying the Congressional 
     Budget Office's June 2017 update to the Budget and Economic 
     Outlook: 2017 to 2027.

     SEC. 4206. EXERCISE OF RULEMAKING POWERS.

       Congress adopts the provisions of this title--
       (1) as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the Senate, 
     and as such they shall be considered as part of the rules of 
     the Senate and such rules shall supersede other rules only to 
     the extent that they are inconsistent with such other rules; 
     and
       (2) with full recognition of the constitutional right of 
     the Senate to change those rules at any time, in the same 
     manner, and to the same extent as is the case of any other 
     rule of the Senate.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1298. Mr. PAUL submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 4, line 25, decrease the amount by $43,000,000,000.
       On page 5, line 13, decrease the amount by $35,948,000,000.
       On page 5, line 14, increase the amount by $33,550,000,000.
       On page 5, line 15, decrease the amount by $86,000,000.
       On page 6, line 1, decrease the amount by $35,260,000,000.
       On page 6, line 2, decrease the amount by $6,450,000,000.
       On page 6, line 3, decrease the amount by $860,000,000.
       On page 6, line 15, decrease the amount by $35,260,000,000.
       On page 6, line 16, decrease the amount by $6,450,000,000.
       On page 6, line 17, decrease the amount by $860,000,000.
       On page 7, line 3, decrease the amount by $35,260,000,000.
       On page 7, line 4, decrease the amount by $6,450,000,000.

[[Page S6575]]

       On page 7, line 5, decrease the amount by $860,000,000.
       On page 37, line 19, decrease the amount by 
     $43,000,000,000.
       On page 37, line 20, decrease the amount by 
     $35,260,000,000.
       On page 37, line 24, decrease the amount by $6,450,000,000.
       On page 38, line 3, decrease the amount by $860,000,000.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1299. Mr. PAUL submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST DUPLICATIVE PROGRAMS.

       (a) Point of Order.--
       (1) In general.--In the Senate, it shall not be in order to 
     consider a provision in a bill, joint resolution, motion, 
     amendment, amendment between the Houses, or conference report 
     that creates a duplicative program.
       (2) Point of order sustained.--If a point of order is made 
     by a Senator against a provision described in paragraph (1), 
     and the point of order is sustained by the Chair, that 
     provision shall be stricken from the measure and may not be 
     offered as an amendment from the floor.
       (b) Form of the Point of Order.--A point of order under 
     subsection (a)(1) may be raised by a Senator as provided in 
     section 313(e) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 
     U.S.C. 644(e)).
       (c) Conference Reports.--When the Senate is considering a 
     conference report on, or an amendment between the Houses in 
     relation to, a bill or joint resolution, upon a point of 
     order being made by any Senator pursuant to subsection 
     (a)(1), and such point of order being sustained, such 
     material contained in such conference report or House 
     amendment shall be stricken, and the Senate shall proceed to 
     consider the question of whether the Senate shall recede from 
     its amendment and concur with a further amendment, or concur 
     in the House amendment with a further amendment, as the case 
     may be, which further amendment shall consist of only that 
     portion of the conference report or House amendment, as the 
     case may be, not so stricken. Any such motion in the Senate 
     shall be debatable. In any case in which such point of order 
     is sustained against a conference report (or Senate amendment 
     derived from such conference report by operation of this 
     subsection), no further amendment shall be in order.
       (d) Supermajority Waiver and Appeal.--In the Senate, this 
     section may be waived or suspended only by an affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members, duly chose and sworn. An 
     affirmative vote of three-fifths of Members of the Senate, 
     duly chosen and sworn shall be required to sustain an appeal 
     of the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     this section.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1300. Ms. KLOBUCHAR submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO SAME DAY 
                   VOTER REGISTRATION AND VOTING.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to the 
     need for same day voter registration, an online national 
     voter registration form, election day voter registration 
     address updates, and early or no-excuse absentee voting by 
     the amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1301. Ms. CANTWELL submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       In section 2001, strike subsection (b).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1302. Mr. WYDEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       After section 2002, insert the following:

     SEC. 2003. MODIFICATION TO RECONCILIATION INSTRUCTIONS.

       Section 2001(a) and 2002(a) are null and void.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1303. Ms. KLOBUCHAR submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO A 
                   NATIONAL DISASTER EMERGENCY VOTING BALLOT.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to voting 
     procedures in the event that a National disaster occurs 
     during an election that prevents voters from accessing polls, 
     including a Federal write-in absentee ballot for domestic 
     use, by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1304. Mr. DAINES (for himself and Mr. Hatch) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO REPEAL OF 
                   THE INDIVIDUAL MANDATE.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     providing relief from Obamacare taxes, which may include the 
     requirement to individually purchase, or jointly provide, 
     health insurance, by the amounts provided in such legislation 
     for those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1305. Mr. LANKFORD submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       Strike subparagraphs (A) through (C) of section 4102(b)(2) 
     and insert the following:
       (A) for fiscal year 2018, $8,500,000,000;
       (B) for fiscal year 2019, $0; and
       (C) for fiscal year 2020, $0.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1306. Mr. BOOZMAN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

[[Page S6576]]

  


     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO VETERAN 
                   HOMELESSNESS, SUICIDE PREVENTION, AND 
                   AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROGRAMS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     protecting and improving the Department of Veterans Affairs, 
     which may include addressing veteran homelessness, suicide 
     prevention and awareness, and sustainable agricultural 
     training for veterans by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1307. Mr. BOOZMAN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO ENSURING 
                   THE ABILITY OF SMALL BUSINESSES TO USE 
                   VOLUNTEERS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     ensuring the ability of small businesses to use volunteers by 
     the amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1308. Mr. BOOZMAN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO CAREER 
                   AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION IN INSTITUTIONS OF 
                   HIGHER EDUCATION.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     industry-based coordination of career and technical education 
     in institutions of higher education, by the amounts provided 
     in such legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1309. Mr. BOOZMAN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO THE USE 
                   OF FEDERAL EMINENT DOMAIN FOR TRANSMISSION 
                   LINES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to the 
     use of Federal eminent domain for transmission lines by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1310. Mr. BOOZMAN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO ENSURING 
                   ACCESS TO BROADBAND IN RURAL AREAS OF THE 
                   UNITED STATES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     ensuring access to broadband in rural areas of the United 
     States by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1311. Ms. COLLINS submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   INVESTMENT IN ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE RESEARCH.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to providing sufficient investment in Alzheimer's 
     disease research, by the amounts provided in such legislation 
     for those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1312. Ms. COLLINS submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 64, line 4, insert ``, and relating to promoting 
     policies to improve disaster preparedness for older 
     Americans'' after ``2017''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1313. Ms. COLLINS submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 52, line 5, insert ``, which may include support of 
     opioid overdose and addiction prevention activities, 
     evidence-based opioid addiction treatment activities, 
     education and community-based activities aimed at addressing 
     and reducing the opioid overdose and addiction epidemic, 
     improved monitoring and prescribing practices, and enhanced 
     research for alternatives to opioid pain medication'' before 
     the semicolon.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1314. Mr. HOEVEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO EXPANDING 
                   HEALTH CARE OPTIONS FOR VETERANS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     expanding health care options for veterans, which may include 
     authorizing the Secretary of Veterans Affairs

[[Page S6577]]

     to enter into provider agreements with non-Department 
     extended care providers by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1315. Mr. BOOKER (for himself, Ms. Harris, Mr. Casey, Mrs. 
Shaheen, Mr. Brown, Mr. Menendez, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Leahy, Ms. Warren, 
and Mr. Van Hollen) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO DEFUNDING 
                   THE ELECTION INTEGRITY COMMISSION.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     defunding the Election Integrity Commission, which is looking 
     into voter fraud in order to promote policies that suppress 
     the vote, by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1316. Mr. BOOKER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO CRIMINAL 
                   JUSTICE DATA COLLECTION.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     encouraging the Department of Justice to incentivize States 
     and local law enforcement agencies to collect data on use of 
     force incidents between law enforcement officers and 
     civilians by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1317. Mr. SCHUMER (for Mr. Menendez) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to 
the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3__. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO PROVIDING 
                   FUNDING FOR THE UNITED NATIONS POPULATION FUND 
                   TO SUPPORT UNACCOMPANIED WOMAN IN INTERNATIONAL 
                   EMERGENCY SITUATIONS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to providing funding for unaccompanied women to 
     secure access to vital services, including water, sanitation 
     facilities, food, and health care, in emergency situations, 
     including humanitarian crises or natural disasters, by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1318. Mr. SCHUMER (for Mr. Menendez (for himself and Mr. Booker)) 
submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 
proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, 
establishing the congressional budget for the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the 
table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO PROVIDING 
                   COMMUTER RAILROADS WITH ADDITIONAL GRANT 
                   FUNDING TO IMPLEMENT POSITIVE TRAIN CONTROL 
                   SYSTEMS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     providing commuter railroads with additional grant funding to 
     implement positive train control systems by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1319. Mr. SCHUMER (for Mr. Menendez (for himself, Mr. Carper, and 
Mr. Coons)) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to amendment 
SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 
71, establishing the congressional budget for the United States 
Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate 
budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered 
to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   COMPREHENSIVE IMPROVEMENTS TO MEDICARE HOSPITAL 
                   WAGE-RELATED PAYMENTS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     adjusting Medicare payments for hospitals, which may include 
     adjustments to reflect area differences in wage levels, by 
     the amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1320. Mr. SCHUMER (for Mr. Menendez) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to 
the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of the amendment, add the following:

     SEC. 4207. LIMITATION.

       Any plan for the reorganization of the Department State and 
     the United States Agency for International Development 
     (referred to in this section as ``USAID'')--
       (1) shall preserve the independence of USAID and its 
     authority to directly oversee its mission to end extreme 
     poverty and promote resilient, democratic societies, while 
     advancing the security and prosperity of the United States; 
     and
       (2) may not involve the subordination of USAID to the 
     Department of State or to any other Federal agency.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1321. Mr. SCHUMER (for Mr. Menendez (for himself, Mr. Durbin, and 
Ms. Duckworth)) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PROTECTING CHILDREN LIVING IN FEDERALLY 
                   ASSISTED HOUSING FROM EXPOSURE TO LEAD-BASED 
                   PAINT HAZARDS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     protecting children living in Federally assisted housing from 
     exposure to lead-based paint hazards by the amounts provided 
     in such legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through

[[Page S6578]]

     2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1322. Mr. SCHUMER (for Mr. Menendez) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to 
the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO PROVIDING 
                   FUNDING FOR GRANTS FOR COMMUNITY-ORIENTED 
                   POLICING.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     providing funding for grants for community-oriented policing 
     by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1323. Mr. SCHUMER (for Mr. Menendez) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to 
the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO PROVIDING 
                   FUNDING FOR THE AFG AND SAFER GRANT PROGRAMS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     providing assistance to firefighters, which may including 
     funding the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program 
     and the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response 
     Firefighters (SAFER) grant program, by the amounts provided 
     in such legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1324. Mr. SCHUMER (for Mr. Menendez (for himself, Mr. Nelson, Mr. 
Blumenthal, Mr. Markey, Mr. Booker, Ms. Harris, Mrs. Gillibrand, and 
Ms. Warren)) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO AVERTING 
                   THE MEDICAID FUNDING CLIFF IN PUERTO RICO AND 
                   ENSURING STABLE MEDICAID FUNDING FOR PUERTO 
                   RICO'S MEDICAID PROGRAM.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     averting the impending Medicaid funding cliff in Puerto Rico 
     and ensuring stable Medicaid funding for Puerto Rico's 
     Medicaid program for the foreseeable future by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1325. Mr. SCHUMER (for Mr. Menendez) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to 
the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO PROVIDING 
                   FUNDING FOR THE URBAN AREAS SECURITY INITIATIVE 
                   PROGRAM.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     providing assistance for urban areas in preventing and 
     responding to terrorist attacks, which may including funding 
     the Urban Areas Security Initiative (UASI) Program, by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1326. Mr. SCHUMER (for Mr. Menendez) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to 
the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO PROVIDING 
                   AN EXCLUSION FROM GROSS INCOME FOR FORGIVEN 
                   STUDENT LOANS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     excluding forgiven student loans from income for tax 
     purposes, by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1327. Mr. SCHUMER (for Mr. Menendez) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to 
the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST FUNDING RELATING TO 
                   ASSISTANCE FOR TRADE PROMOTION FOR CUBA UNTIL 
                   THE GOVERNMENT OF CUBA IS IN COMPLIANCE WITH 
                   INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION STANDARDS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     provide funding relating to assistance for trade promotion 
     for Cuba until the Government of Cuba is in compliance with 
     International Labour Organization standards.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1328. Mr. SCHUMER (for Mr. Menendez) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to 
the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION FUNDING THE 
                   ESTABLISHMENT OF A UNITED STATES EMBASSY IN 
                   HAVANA, CUBA UNTIL THE GOVERNMENT OF CUBA 
                   CEASES PROVIDING SANCTUARY TO TERRORISTS AND 
                   AMERICAN FUGITIVES.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     provide funding relating to establishing a United States 
     Embassy in Havana, Cuba until the Government of Cuba ceases 
     providing sanctuary to terrorists and American fugitives.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members

[[Page S6579]]

     of the Senate, duly chosen and sworn, shall be required to 
     sustain an appeal of the ruling of the Chair on a point of 
     order raised under subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1329. Mr. SCHUMER (for Mr. Menendez) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to 
the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO ENDING 
                   WASTEFUL OIL SUBSIDIES AND REFUNDING THE 
                   SAVINGS TO MIDDLE CLASS FAMILIES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to ending 
     wasteful oil subsidies and refunding the savings to middle 
     class families by the amounts provided in such legislation 
     for those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1330. Mr. SCHUMER (for Mr. Menendez (for himself, Ms. Stabenow, 
Mr. Carper, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Markey, Mr. Murphy, Ms. 
Hirono, Mr. Brown, Mr. Cardin, Mrs. Shaheen, Mrs. Gillibrand, Ms. 
Cantwell, Ms. Warren, Mr. Wyden, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Udall, 
Mr. Reed, Mr. Booker, Mr. Heinrich, and Mr. Franken)) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST ELIMINATING OR REDUCING 
                   FEDERAL FUNDING TO STATES UNDER THE MEDICAID 
                   EXPANSION.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     eliminate or reduce funding to States available under law in 
     effect on the date of the adoption of this section to provide 
     comprehensive, affordable health care to low-income Americans 
     by eliminating or reducing the availability of Federal 
     financial assistance to States available under section 
     1905(y)(1) or 1905(z)(2) of the Social Security Act (42 
     U.S.C. 1396d(y)(1), 1396d(z)(2)) or other means, unless the 
     Director of the Congressional Budget Office certifies that 
     the legislation would not--
       (1) increase the number of uninsured Americans;
       (2) decrease Medicaid enrollment in States that have opted 
     to expand eligibility for medical assistance under that 
     program for low-income, non-elderly individuals under the 
     eligibility option established by the Affordable Care Act 
     under section 1902(a)(10)(A)(i)(VIII) of the Social Security 
     Act (42 U.S.C. 1396a(a)(10)(A)(i)(VIII));
       (3) reduce the likelihood that any State that, as of the 
     date of the adoption of this section, has not opted to expand 
     Medicaid under the eligibility option established by the 
     Affordable Care Act under section 1902(a)(10)(A)(i)(VIII) of 
     the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396a(a)(10)(A)(i)(VIII)) 
     would opt to use that eligibility option to expand 
     eligibility for medical assistance under that program for 
     low-income, non-elderly individuals; or
       (4) increase the State share of Medicaid spending under 
     that eligibility option.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1331. Mr. SCHUMER (for Mr. Menendez) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to 
the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41_. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD RAISE 
                   TAXES ON HOMEOWNERS BY REPEALING OR LIMITING 
                   THE REAL ESTATE PROPERTY TAX DEDUCTION.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     raise taxes on homeowners by repealing or limiting the real 
     estate property tax deduction.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1332. Ms. STABENOW (for herself, Mrs. McCaskill, Mr. Casey, Mr. 
Menendez, and Mrs. Shaheen) submitted an amendment intended to be 
proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent 
resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4___. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD GIVE 
                   A TAX CUT TO COMPANIES THAT OFFSHORE AMERICAN 
                   JOBS OR USE OFFSHORE TAX LOOPHOLES.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     cut taxes on any company that has offshored jobs or that has 
     used offshore tax loopholes to avoid paying its fair share.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1333. Ms. STABENOW (for herself, Ms. Klobuchar, Ms. Heitkamp, Mrs. 
McCaskill, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Brown, and Mr. Casey) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       Strike section 3015 and insert the following:

     SEC. 3015. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO SECURING 
                   EARNED PENSION BENEFITS WITH NO CUTS AND 
                   ENSURING SOLVENCY OF THE PENSION BENEFIT 
                   GUARANTY CORPORATION.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     securing earned pension benefits with no cuts and ensuring 
     solvency of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1334. Ms. STABENOW (for herself, Mr. Brown, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. 
Casey, and Ms. Duckworth) submitted an amendment intended to be 
proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent 
resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST FUNDING REDUCTION FOR THE 
                   GREAT LAKES RESTORATION INITIATIVE.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     result in funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative 
     being reduced below the amount authorized under section 
     118(c)(7) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 
     U.S.C. 1268(c)(7)).
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate

[[Page S6580]]

     only by an affirmative vote of three-fifths of the Members, 
     duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative vote of three-fifths of 
     the Members of the Senate, duly chosen and sworn, shall be 
     required to sustain an appeal of the ruling of the Chair on a 
     point of order raised under subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1335. Ms. STABENOW submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST REDUCTIONS IN HEALTH 
                   INSURANCE COVERAGE.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that, 
     according to the Congressional Budget Office, would reduce 
     the number of Americans with health insurance coverage, raise 
     out-of-pocket costs, or reduce health insurance benefits.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1336. Ms. STABENOW submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST CUTS TO MEDICAID.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     eliminate or decrease the amount, duration, or scope of 
     benefits provided under Medicaid, which may include making 
     Medicaid a block grant or establishing per capita caps.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1337. Ms. STABENOW submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST CUTS TO SENIORS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     cut Social Security, Medicare, or Medicaid.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1338. Ms. STABENOW submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST REDUCING TAXES FOR 
                   MILLIONAIRES AND BILLIONAIRES.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     reduce taxes for the top 1 percent of income earners.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1339. Ms. STABENOW submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST INCREASING TAXES ON SENIOR 
                   CITIZENS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     increase taxes on senior citizens.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1340. Ms. STABENOW submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD 
                   RESULT IN A NET REDUCTION IN DIRECT SPENDING 
                   FOR FARM BILL PROGRAMS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     result in a net reduction in direct spending over the period 
     of fiscal years 2019 through 2028 for Farm Bill programs 
     under the jurisdiction of the Committee on Agriculture, 
     Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate according to data of 
     the most recent spring Budget and Economic Outlook Update 
     published by the Congressional Budget Office.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1341. Ms. STABENOW submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST INCREASING TAXES ON FAMILIES 
                   WITH CHILDREN.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     increase taxes on families with children.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1342. Mr. MERKLEY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION PROVIDING 
                   FUNDING FOR THE ELECTION INTEGRITY COMMISSION.

       (a) Point of Order.--

[[Page S6581]]

       (1) In general.--In the Senate, it shall not be in order to 
     consider a provision in a bill, joint resolution, motion, 
     amendment, amendment between the Houses, or conference report 
     that provides funding for the Election Integrity Commission 
     unless the bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report also 
     contains a provision requiring the Election Integrity 
     Commission to investigate Russian interference in the 2016 
     election, including hacking or other cyber intrusion into 
     State election systems.
       (2) Point of order sustained.--If a point of order is made 
     by a Senator against a provision described in paragraph (1), 
     and the point of order is sustained by the Chair, that 
     provision shall be stricken from the measure and may not be 
     offered as an amendment from the floor.
       (b) Form of the Point of Order.--A point of order under 
     subsection (a) may be raised by a Senator as provided in 
     section 313(e) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 
     U.S.C. 644(e)).
       (c) Conference Reports.--When the Senate is considering a 
     conference report on, or an amendment between the Houses in 
     relation to, a bill or joint resolution, upon a point of 
     order being made by any Senator pursuant to subsection (a), 
     and such point of order being sustained, such material 
     contained in such conference report or House amendment shall 
     be stricken, and the Senate shall proceed to consider the 
     question of whether the Senate shall recede from its 
     amendment and concur with a further amendment, or concur in 
     the House amendment with a further amendment, as the case may 
     be, which further amendment shall consist of only that 
     portion of the conference report or House amendment, as the 
     case may be, not so stricken. Any such motion in the Senate 
     shall be debatable. In any case in which such point of order 
     is sustained against a conference report (or Senate amendment 
     derived from such conference report by operation of this 
     subsection), no further amendment shall be in order.
       (d) Supermajority Waiver and Appeal.--In the Senate, this 
     section may be waived or suspended only by an affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members, duly chose and sworn. An 
     affirmative vote of three-fifths of Members of the Senate, 
     duly chosen and sworn shall be required to sustain an appeal 
     of the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     this section.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1343. Mr. MERKLEY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO EXPANDING 
                   ACCESS TO AFFORDABLE, QUALITY HEALTH INSURANCE.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     expanding access to affordable, quality health insurance, 
     including through policies such as increasing access under 
     the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, the Medicare 
     program, or the Medicaid program, by the amounts provided in 
     such legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1344. Mr. MERKLEY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41_. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD ALLOW 
                   FOR A NET REDUCTION OF TAXES PAID BY PERSONS 
                   WITH INCOME OF MORE THAN $1,000,000.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     allow for a net reduction of taxes paid by persons with 
     income of more than $1,000,000.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1345. Mr. MERKLEY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41_. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD ALLOW 
                   FOR A NET REDUCTION OF TAXES PAID BY PERSONS 
                   WITH INCOME OF MORE THAN $1,000,000 AND WOULD 
                   ALLOW FOR AN INCREASE OF TAXES PAID BY 
                   INDIVIDUALS IN THE LOWEST TAX BRACKET.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     allow for a net reduction of taxes paid by persons with 
     income of more than $1,000,000 and would allow for an 
     increase of taxes paid by individuals in the lowest tax 
     bracket.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1346. Mr. MERKLEY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 3, line 12, increase the amount by $79,950,000,000.
       On page 3, line 13, increase the amount by $84,350,000,000.
       On page 4, line 1, increase the amount by $88,750,000,000.
       On page 4, line 2, increase the amount by $93,150,000,000.
       On page 4, line 3, increase the amount by $97,550,000,000.
       On page 4, line 4, increase the amount by $101,950,000,000.
       On page 4, line 5, increase the amount by $106,350,000,000.
       On page 4, line 6, increase the amount by $110,750,000,000.
       On page 4, line 7, increase the amount by $115,150,000,000.
       On page 4, line 8, increase the amount by $119,550,000,000.
       On page 4, line 12, increase the amount by $79,950,000,000.
       On page 4, line 13, increase the amount by $84,350,000,000.
       On page 4, line 14, increase the amount by $88,750,000,000.
       On page 4, line 15, increase the amount by $93,150,000,000.
       On page 4, line 16, increase the amount by $97,550,000,000.
       On page 4, line 17, increase the amount by 
     $101,950,000,000.
       On page 4, line 18, increase the amount by 
     $106,350,000,000.
       On page 4, line 19, increase the amount by 
     $110,750,000,000.
       On page 4, line 20, increase the amount by 
     $115,150,000,000.
       On page 4, line 21, increase the amount by 
     $119,550,000,000.
       On page 4, line 25, increase the amount by $79,950,000,000.
       On page 5, line 1, increase the amount by $84,350,000,000.
       On page 5, line 2, increase the amount by $88,750,000,000.
       On page 5, line 3, increase the amount by $93,150,000,000.
       On page 5, line 4, increase the amount by $97,550,000,000.
       On page 5, line 5, increase the amount by $101,950,000,000.
       On page 5, line 6, increase the amount by $106,350,000,000.
       On page 5, line 7, increase the amount by $110,750,000,000.
       On page 5, line 8, increase the amount by $115,150,000,000.
       On page 5, line 9, increase the amount by $119,550,000,000.
       On page 5, line 13, increase the amount by $79,950,000,000.
       On page 5, line 14, increase the amount by $84,350,000,000.
       On page 5, line 15, increase the amount by $88,750,000,000.
       On page 5, line 16, increase the amount by $93,150,000,000.
       On page 5, line 17, increase the amount by $97,550,000,000.
       On page 5, line 18, increase the amount by 
     $101,950,000,000.
       On page 5, line 19, increase the amount by 
     $106,350,000,000.
       On page 5, line 20, increase the amount by 
     $110,750,000,000.
       On page 5, line 21, increase the amount by 
     $115,150,000,000.

[[Page S6582]]

       On page 5, line 22, increase the amount by 
     $119,550,000,000.
       On page 19, line 11, increase the amount by 
     $39,975,000,000.
       On page 19, line 12, increase the amount by 
     $39,975,000,000.
       On page 19, line 15, increase the amount by 
     $42,175,000,000.
       On page 19, line 16, increase the amount by 
     $42,175,000,000.
       On page 19, line 19, increase the amount by 
     $44,375,000,000.
       On page 19, line 20, increase the amount by 
     $44,375,000,000.
       On page 19, line 23, increase the amount by 
     $46,575,000,000.
       On page 19, line 24, increase the amount by 
     $46,575,000,000.
       On page 20, line 2, increase the amount by $48,775,000,000.
       On page 20, line 3, increase the amount by $48,775,000,000.
       On page 20, line 6, increase the amount by $50,975,000,000.
       On page 20, line 7, increase the amount by $50,975,000,000.
       On page 20, line 10, increase the amount by 
     $53,175,000,000.
       On page 20, line 11, increase the amount by 
     $53,175,000,000.
       On page 20, line 14, increase the amount by 
     $55,375,000,000.
       On page 20, line 15, increase the amount by 
     $55,375,000,000.
       On page 20, line 18, increase the amount by 
     $57,575,000,000.
       On page 20, line 19, increase the amount by 
     $57,575,000,000.
       On page 20, line 22, increase the amount by 
     $59,775,000,000.
       On page 20, line 23, increase the amount by 
     $59,775,000,000.
       On page 22, line 20, increase the amount by 
     $39,975,000,000.
       On page 22, line 21, increase the amount by 
     $39,975,000,000.
       On page 22, line 24, increase the amount by 
     $42,175,000,000.
       On page 22, line 25, increase the amount by 
     $42,175,000,000.
       On page 23, line 3, increase the amount by $44,375,000,000.
       On page 23, line 4, increase the amount by $44,375,000,000.
       On page 23, line 7, increase the amount by $46,575,000,000.
       On page 23, line 8, increase the amount by $46,575,000,000.
       On page 23, line 11, increase the amount by 
     $48,775,000,000.
       On page 23, line 12, increase the amount by 
     $48,775,000,000.
       On page 23, line 15, increase the amount by 
     $50,975,000,000.
       On page 23, line 16, increase the amount by 
     $50,975,000,000.
       On page 23, line 19, increase the amount by 
     $53,175,000,000.
       On page 23, line 20, increase the amount by 
     $53,175,000,000.
       On page 23, line 23, increase the amount by 
     $55,375,000,000.
       On page 23, line 24, increase the amount by 
     $55,375,000,000.
       On page 24, line 2, increase the amount by $57,575,000,000.
       On page 24, line 3, increase the amount by $57,575,000,000.
       On page 24, line 6, increase the amount by $59,775,000,000.
       On page 24, line 7, increase the amount by $59,775,000,000.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1347. Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Mr. Gardner, Mr. Cardin, and Mr. 
Wyden) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 
1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, 
establishing the congressional budget for the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the 
table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO ASSISTING 
                   ROHINGYA VICTIMS OF THE BURMESE MILITARY'S 
                   ETHNIC CLEANSING CAMPAIGN AND SUPPORTING PEACE 
                   AND RECONCILIATION PROGRAMS IN RAKHINE STATE.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     assisting victims of the Burmese military's ethnic cleansing 
     campaign targeting Rohingya in Rakhine State, including 
     refugees in Bangladesh, and supporting peace and 
     reconciliation programs in Rakhine State, including support 
     for humanitarian organizations, United Nations agencies, and 
     nongovernmental organizations supporting the implementation 
     of the recommendations of the Advisory Commission on Rakhine 
     State or otherwise seeking to provide humanitarian assistance 
     to victims of the Burmese military, including gender based 
     violence, by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1348. Mr. MERKLEY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST REDUCED AGENCY RESOURCES OR 
                   AUTHORITY FOR CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that 
     reduces agency resources or authority for consumer financial 
     protection.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1349. Mr. MERKLEY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST AN UNLEVEL PLAYING FIELD IN 
                   ENERGY.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     provide greater net benefits for fossil fuels than for 
     renewable energy sources.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1350. Mr. MERKLEY (for himself and Mr. Sanders) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO CREATING 
                   JOBS BY INVESTING IN THE NATION'S 
                   INFRASTRUCTURE AND INCREASING REVENUE THROUGH 
                   CLOSING TAX LOOPHOLES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     infrastructure, which may include investing 
     $1,000,000,000,000 in infrastructure while substantially 
     increasing revenues to the Treasury by closing corporate tax 
     loopholes, by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1351. Mr. MERKLEY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   STREAMLINING AND IMPROVING INCOME-DRIVEN 
                   REPAYMENT PROGRAMS FOR FEDERAL STUDENT LOANS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this

[[Page S6583]]

     resolution, and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to streamlining and improving income-driven 
     repayment programs for Federal student loans, by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1352. Mr. UDALL (for himself and Mr. Heinrich) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD PAY 
                   FOR TAX BREAKS FOR THE WEALTHY BY REDUCING 
                   FEDERAL FUNDING FOR THE MEDICAID PROGRAM.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     pay for tax breaks for the wealthy by reducing Federal 
     funding for the Medicaid program under title XIX of the 
     Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.).
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1353. Mr. UDALL (for himself and Mr. Heinrich) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO RELATING 
                   TO ALLOWING THE COLLECTION AND PUBLICATION OF 
                   VISITOR LOG DATA FOR THE WHITE HOUSE AND OTHER 
                   LOCATIONS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to making 
     Federal Government records available to the public, which may 
     include allowing for the collection and publication of 
     visitor log data for the White House and other locations at 
     which the President regularly conducts official business, by 
     the amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1354. Mrs. MURRAY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3__. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO ADVANCING 
                   WOMEN'S HEALTH CARE INTO THE 21ST CENTURY.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     improving women's health care services, which may include 
     measures such as--
       (1) expanding awareness regarding, and expanding access 
     without cost-sharing to, the full range of preventive 
     services for all women, such as contraception, breast cancer 
     screenings, mammograms, domestic violence screenings and 
     counseling, lactation support and counseling, screening for 
     gestational diabetes, testing for and counseling on sexually 
     transmitted infections, and well-women visits, as provided 
     for under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act 
     (Public Law 111-148);
       (2) supporting access to women's primary care by investing 
     in nurse practitioners and other health care providers;
       (3) improving maternal safety and quality of care;
       (4) requiring coverage without cost-sharing of any over-
     the-counter oral contraception approved or regulated by the 
     Food and Drug Administration, and ensuring that any retailer 
     that stocks oral contraception for routine, daily use 
     approved or regulated by the Food and Drug Administration for 
     use without a prescription may not interfere with an 
     individual's access to or purchase of such contraception; or
       (5) providing compassionate assistance through medically-
     accurate information and services, including emergency 
     contraception and forensic medical examinations for survivors 
     of rape,
     by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1355. Mr. HEINRICH (for himself and Ms. Collins) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO POVERTY 
                   REDUCTION.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     promoting policies seeking to improve the economic security 
     of low-income individuals and families, including by lifting 
     families out of poverty, increasing educational attainment, 
     and addressing the needs of vulnerable children and parents 
     concurrently, by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1356. Mr. HOEVEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   INCREASING LIMITATIONS ON FARM SERVICE AGENCY 
                   DIRECT AND GUARANTEED OWNERSHIP AND OPERATING 
                   LOANS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     increasing limitations on Farm Service Agency direct and 
     guaranteed ownership and operating loans by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1357. Mr. RUBIO submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 4, line 25, increase the amount by $91,284,000,000.
       On page 5, line 1, increase the amount by $100,317,000,000.
       On page 5, line 2, increase the amount by $110,504,000,000.
       On page 5, line 3, increase the amount by $130,943,000,000.
       On page 5, line 4, increase the amount by $135,734,000,000.
       On page 5, line 13, increase the amount by $55,044,000,000.
       On page 5, line 14, increase the amount by $82,034,000,000.
       On page 5, line 15, increase the amount by $98,068,000,000.

[[Page S6584]]

       On page 5, line 16, increase the amount by 
     $117,125,000,000.
       On page 5, line 17, increase the amount by 
     $127,516,000,000.
       On page 5, line 18, increase the amount by $49,078,000,000.
       On page 5, line 19, increase the amount by $18,412,000,000.
       On page 5, line 20, increase the amount by $7,389,000,000.
       On page 5, line 21, increase the amount by $2,172,000,000.
       On page 7, line 21, increase the amount by $91,284,000,000.
       On page 7, line 22, increase the amount by $55,044,000,000.
       On page 7, line 25, increase the amount by 
     $100,317,000,000.
       On page 8, line 1, increase the amount by $82,034,000,000.
       On page 8, line 4, increase the amount by $110,504,000,000.
       On page 8, line 5, increase the amount by $98,068,000,000.
       On page 8, line 8, increase the amount by $130,943,000,000.
       On page 8, line 9, increase the amount by $117,125,000,000.
       On page 8, line 12, increase the amount by 
     $135,734,000,000.
       On page 8, line 13, increase the amount by 
     $127,516,000,000.
       On page 8, line 17, increase the amount by $49,078,000,000.
       On page 8, line 21, increase the amount by $18,412,000,000.
       On page 8, line 25, increase the amount by $7,389,000,000.
       On page 9, line 4, increase the amount by $2,172,000,000.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1358. Mr. RUBIO submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

     SEC. ___. SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING EXPANSION OF THE 
                   CHILD TAX CREDIT.

       It is the sense of the Senate that tax reform legislation 
     that expands the Child Tax Credit should also increase the 
     refundable portion of the Child Tax Credit.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1359. Mr. RUBIO submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   REFUNDABLE PORTION OF THE CHILD TAX CREDIT.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     increasing per-child Federal tax relief, which may include 
     amending the refundable portion of the Child Tax Credit, by 
     the amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1360. Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Mr. Lee) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to 
the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       On page 62, lines 19 and 20, strike ``the cost of child'' 
     and all that follows through ``and useful'' and insert ``the 
     cost of raising children and taking care of dependents more 
     affordable''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1361. Mr. RUBIO submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   ADDITIONAL CHILD TAX CREDIT IN PUERTO RICO.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     allowing otherwise eligible families in Puerto Rico with one 
     child or two children to claim the additional child tax 
     credit, by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1362. Mr. RUBIO submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

     SEC. ___. REDUCTION OF PAYROLL TAXES.

       In the Senate, no point of order shall lie under the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974 against any bill, joint 
     resolution, motion, amendment, amendment between the Houses, 
     or conference report that reduces any taxes assessed pursuant 
     to the Federal Insurance Contributions Act.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1363. Mr. RUBIO submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO IMPOSING 
                   NEW SANCTIONS-IN-WAITING TO REQUIRE IRAN TO 
                   ALLOW THE INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY TO 
                   IMMEDIATELY INSPECT IRANIAN MILITARY SITES 
                   SUSPECTED OF HAVING NUCLEAR WEAPONS-RELATED 
                   ACTIVITIES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     imposing new sanctions-in-waiting to require Iran to allow 
     the International Atomic Energy Agency to immediately inspect 
     Iranian military sites suspected of having nuclear weapons-
     related activities, which may include amending the Joint 
     Comprehensive Plan of Action, by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1364. Mr. RUBIO submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO IMPOSING 
                   NEW SANCTIONS-IN-WAITING TO DETER IRAN FROM 
                   ACQUIRING URANIUM ENRICHMENT CAPABILITIES THAT 
                   GIVE IT NUCLEAR BREAKOUT CAPABILITY OF LESS 
                   THAN ONE YEAR.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     imposing new sanctions-in-waiting to deter Iran from 
     acquiring uranium enrichment capabilities that give it 
     nuclear breakout capability of less than one year, which may 
     include amending the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, by 
     the amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1365. Mr. RUBIO submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States

[[Page S6585]]

Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate 
budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered 
to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO IMPOSING 
                   NEW SANCTIONS-IN-WAITING TO DETER IRAN FROM 
                   TESTING, MANUFACTURING, OR DEPLOYING AN 
                   INTERCONTINENTAL BALLISTIC MISSILE OR ANY OTHER 
                   NEW BALLISTIC OR CRUISE MISSILE CAPABILITIES 
                   THAT CAN THREATEN THE UNITED STATES OR ISRAEL.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     imposing new sanctions-in-waiting to deter Iran from testing, 
     manufacturing, or deploying an intercontinental ballistic 
     missile or any other new ballistic or cruise missile 
     capabilities that can threaten the United States or Israel, 
     which may include amending the Joint Comprehensive Plan of 
     Action, by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1366. Mr. RUBIO submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO IMPOSING 
                   NEW SANCTIONS TO DETER ANY NUCLEAR WEAPONS-
                   RELATED COOPERATION BETWEEN IRAN AND NORTH 
                   KOREA.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     imposing new sanctions to deter any nuclear weapons-related 
     cooperation between Iran and North Korea, which may include 
     amending the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1367. Mr. YOUNG submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO ENSURING 
                   ACCOUNTABILITY FOR FEDERAL AGENCIES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     ensuring accountability for Federal agencies, which may 
     include requiring Federal agencies to submit reports on 
     outstanding Government Accountability Office and Inspector 
     General recommendations in the annual budget justification 
     submitted to Congress, by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1368. Mr. UDALL submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 56, line 23, insert ``or relating to supporting 
     additional efforts to increase access to health care for 
     veterans in rural areas through telehealth and other programs 
     that reduce the need for such veterans to travel long 
     distances to a medical facility of the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs'' after ``members''.

                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1369. Mr. BOOKER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41_. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD ALLOW 
                   FOR ANY CORPORATION THAT TURNS A PROFIT AND HAS 
                   MORE THAN $1,000,000,000 OF ANNUAL REVENUE TO 
                   PAY NO FEDERAL INCOME TAX.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     allow for any corporation that turns a profit and has more 
     than $1,000,000,000 of annual revenue to pay no Federal 
     income tax.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1370. Mr. MANCHIN (for himself, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Murphy, Ms. 
Baldwin, Mr. King, Ms. Warren, and Ms. Klobuchar) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   ESTABLISHING A PERMANENT FUNDING STREAM FOR 
                   SUBSTANCE USE DISORDER TREATMENT.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     establishing a permanent funding stream for the Substance 
     Abuse Prevention and Treatment block grant program, by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1371. Mr. WYDEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST PROVIDING A TAX CUT TO THE 
                   TOP 1 PERCENT OR CREATING A LOOPHOLE FOR 
                   WEALTHY TAX DODGERS THROUGH LOWERING THE PASS-
                   THROUGH TAX RATE.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report relating 
     to a reconciliation bill that would--
       (1) provide a tax cut on business income to individuals in 
     the top 1 percent of income, or
       (2) increase the incentive for workers to receive 
     compensation from their current employer through a pass-
     through business rather than in the form of higher-taxed 
     wages.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1372. Ms. HIRONO (for herself, Mr. Donnelly, Mr. Nelson, Mr. 
Udall, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Blumenthal, Ms. Baldwin, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. 
Carper, Mr. Brown, Mr. Reed, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Murphy, Ms. Warren, Mrs. 
Shaheen, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Coons, Mrs. Gillibrand, Ms. Duckworth, and Mr. 
Casey)

[[Page S6586]]

submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 
proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, 
establishing the congressional budget for the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the 
table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD 
                   PRIVATIZE MEDICARE OR LIMIT FEDERAL FUNDING FOR 
                   MEDICAID.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that 
     would--
       (1) increase the eligibility age under the Medicare program 
     under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395 
     et seq.);
       (2) privatize the Medicare program or turn the program into 
     a voucher system; or
       (3) decrease or cap Federal funding of State Medicaid 
     programs under title XIX of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et 
     seq.), or alter such funding of such programs in such a 
     manner that would decrease the amount of Federal funding 
     available to States to elect to provide medical assistance to 
     low-income, non-elderly individuals under the eligibility 
     option established by the Affordable Care Act in section 
     1902(a)(10)(A)(i)(VIII) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
     1396a(a)(10)(A)(i)(VIII)).
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1373. Ms. HIRONO (for herself, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Casey, Mr. 
Blumenthal, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Markey, Mr. Wyden, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Coons, 
Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Murphy, Mr. Udall, Ms. Duckworth, Ms. Warren, Mr. 
Reed, Mrs. Gillibrand, and Mr. Brown) submitted an amendment intended 
to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the 
concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional 
budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 2018 and 
setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 
through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3__. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND TO PROVIDE AFFORDABLE 
                   AND HIGH-QUALITY CHILD CARE AND EARLY LEARNING.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     efforts to improve child care and early learning programs, 
     which may include such measures as--
       (1) providing Federal assistance to limit the percent of 
     income families pay toward the cost of child care;
       (2) providing access to high-quality preschool for all low- 
     and moderate-income children;
       (3) investing in our Nation's child care and early learning 
     workforce;
       (4) increasing services and supports for infants, toddlers, 
     and children with disabilities to promote access to 
     inclusive, high-quality child care settings; or
       (5) providing adequate funding to ensure that Head Start 
     programs can meet the extended duration requirements set 
     forth in the Head Start performance standards described in 
     section 641A(a) of the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9836a(a)) 
     for 2016,

     by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1374. Mr. COONS (for himself, Mr. Moran, Mr. Bennet, and Ms. 
Stabenow) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to amendment 
SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 
71, establishing the congressional budget for the United States 
Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate 
budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered 
to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO PARITY 
                   AND PERMANENCY FOR INCREASED UTILIZATION OF 
                   ENERGY TAX POLICIES SUPPORTING THE TREATMENT OF 
                   ENERGY-RELATED PUBLICLY TRADED PARTNERSHIPS 
                   THAT PROMOTE CLEAN ENERGY IN THE UNITED STATES 
                   .

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     establishing parity and permanency for energy finance 
     mechanisms supporting the treatment of energy-related 
     publicly traded partnerships that promote clean energy, by 
     the amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1375. Mr. CARDIN (for himself and Mr. Blumenthal) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT INCLUDES 
                   DEFICIT-FINANCED TAX CUTS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that 
     includes tax cuts and would cause or increase a deficit or 
     reduce a surplus.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1376. Mr. BROWN (for himself, Mr. Bennet, and Mr. Durbin) 
submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 
proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, 
establishing the congressional budget for the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the 
table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   INCREASING THE VALUE OF THE EARNED INCOME 
                   CREDIT AND THE CHILD TAX CREDIT FOR WORKING 
                   FAMILIES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     increasing the value of the earned income credit for workers 
     that do not claim children on their tax returns, increasing 
     the value of the child tax credit for the parents of young 
     children, and indexing the child tax credit for inflation, by 
     the amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1377. Mr. BROWN (for himself, Mr. Cardin, Mrs. Murray, and Mr. 
Peters) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 
1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, 
establishing the congressional budget for the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the 
table; as follows:

       On page 52, line 10, insert ``by fully preserving the 
     current pre-tax retirement savings incentives'' after 
     ``retirement''.

                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1378. Mr. BROWN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO PROVIDING 
                   TAX BENEFITS TO PATRIOT EMPLOYERS THAT INVEST 
                   IN AMERICAN JOBS AND PROVIDE FAIR PAY AND 
                   BENEFITS TO WORKERS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this

[[Page S6587]]

     resolution, and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to income taxes paid by businesses, which may 
     include measures providing tax breaks for companies that have 
     not moved overseas to avoid paying their fair share of taxes, 
     have maintained or expanded their United States workforce, or 
     have provided fair wages and quality health insurance, 
     prepared workers for retirement, hired veterans and workers 
     with disabilities, and provided paid family medical leave, by 
     the amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1379. Mr. SCHATZ submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO THE 
                   NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STANDARDS AND TECHNOLOGY 
                   CONVENING AN ONGOING GOVERNMENT-WIDE EFFORT TO 
                   PROVIDE FORWARD-LOOKING CLIMATE INFORMATION TO 
                   STANDARDS ORGANIZATIONS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to the 
     National Institute of Standards and Technology, in 
     consultation with the United States Global Change Research 
     Program (USGCRP) and Mitigation Framework Leadership Group 
     (MitFLG), convening an ongoing government-wide effort to 
     provide forward-looking climate information to standards 
     organizations for their consideration in the development of 
     design standards, building codes, and voluntary 
     certifications by the amounts provided in such legislation 
     for those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1380. Mr. SCHATZ submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST REDUCING THE SUPPORT OF THE 
                   FEDERAL GOVERNMENT FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING 
                   CONSTRUCTION, PRESERVATION, AND REHABILITATION 
                   AND FEDERAL HOUSING ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that 
     reduce the support of the Federal Government for affordable 
     housing construction, preservation, and rehabilitation and 
     Federal housing assistance programs.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1381. Mr. SCHATZ submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO INVESTING 
                   IN FEDERAL RESILIENCE ACTIVITIES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     investing in Federal resilience activities, which may include 
     the establishment of an investment strategy by the Mitigation 
     Framework Leadership Group or recommendations submitted to 
     Congress by such Group on how the Federal Government should 
     prioritize future resilience investments, by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1382. Ms. WARREN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO TAX 
                   PROPOSALS THAT DECREASE INCOME AND WEALTH 
                   INEQUALITY, RATHER THAN INCREASE INCOME AND 
                   WEALTH INEQUALITY.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to tax 
     proposals that decrease income and wealth inequality, rather 
     than increase income and wealth inequality, provided that 
     such legislation would not increase the deficit over either 
     the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or 
     the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1383. Ms. WARREN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO STUDYING 
                   THE FAILURES OF THE KANSAS STATE GOVERNMENT'S 
                   RECENT TAX REFORM EFFORTS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     studying the failures of the Kansas State government's recent 
     tax reform efforts, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1384. Ms. WARREN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO TAX 
                   PROPOSALS THAT INCENTIVIZE LONG-TERM ECONOMIC 
                   GROWTH OVER SHORT-TERM PROFIT-SEEKING.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to tax 
     proposals that incentivize long-term economic growth over 
     short-term profit-seeking, provided that such legislation 
     would not increase the deficit over either the period of the 
     total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the 
     total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1385. Ms. WARREN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

[[Page S6588]]

  


     SEC. 41__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD CUT 
                   TAXES FOR THE RICH WITHOUT GUARANTEEING 
                   AFFORDABLE COVERAGE, BENEFITS, AND ACCESS UNDER 
                   THE MEDICAID PROGRAM FOR KIDS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     cut taxes for the rich without guaranteeing affordable 
     coverage, benefits, and access for children under the 
     Medicaid program under title XIX of the Social Security Act 
     (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.) or the program under title XXI of 
     such Act (42 U.S.C. 1397aa et seq.).
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1386. Ms. WARREN (for herself, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Murphy, Mr. Udall, 
Mr. Brown, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Casey, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Booker, 
and Mrs. Gillibrand) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO FINANCIAL 
                   CONFLICTS OF INTEREST OF THE SITTING PRESIDENT 
                   AND VICE PRESIDENT.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     eliminating the financial conflicts of interest of sitting 
     Presidents and Vice Presidents by the amounts provided in 
     such legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1387. Ms. WARREN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PROHIBITING CREDIT REPORTING AGENCIES FROM 
                   SHARING THE PERSONAL AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION 
                   OF AN INDIVIDUAL WITHOUT THE EXPLICIT CONSENT 
                   OF THE INDIVIDUAL.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     prohibiting credit reporting agencies from sharing the 
     personal and financial information of an individual without 
     the explicit consent of the individual by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1388. Ms. WARREN (for herself, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Udall, and Ms. 
Duckworth) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to amendment 
SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 
71, establishing the congressional budget for the United States 
Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate 
budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered 
to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO IMPROVING 
                   TAX FILING AND TAXPAYER ACCESS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     ensuring that taxpayers have the option to access free, pre-
     filled tax returns and are able to securely access their own 
     tax data by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1389. Mr. RUBIO submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO WAGE 
                   SUBSIDIES AND WELFARE REFORM.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     increasing State flexibility, innovation, and efficiency in 
     operating anti-poverty programs and providing for a wage 
     subsidy targeted at low-income individuals, by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1390. Ms. STABENOW (for herself and Ms. Cantwell) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST MEDICARE CUTS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that cuts 
     or privatizes Medicare by reducing benefits, increasing 
     beneficiary costs, or turning the program into a private 
     voucher.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1391. Mr. REED (for himself, Ms. Collins, Ms. Stabenow, Mrs. 
Shaheen, Mr. Markey, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Merkley, Ms. 
Hassan, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Murphy, Ms. Murkowski, Mr. Coons, Ms. Warren, 
and Mr. Leahy) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO HOME 
                   ENERGY ASSISTANCE, WEATHERIZATION, OR ENERGY 
                   EFFICIENCY PROGRAMS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports, relating to home 
     energy assistance, weatherization, or energy efficiency 
     programs such as the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance 
     Program under the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Act of 
     1981 (42 U.S.C. 8621 et seq.), the Weatherization Assistance 
     Program for Low-Income Persons under part A of title IV of 
     the Energy Conservation and Production Act (42 U.S.C. 6861 et 
     seq.), or the State energy conservation programs under part D 
     of title III of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 
     U.S.C. 6321 et seq.), by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.

[[Page S6589]]

  

                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1392. Mr. FLAKE (for himself and Mr. Lee) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to 
the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   SIMPLIFYING THE TAX CODE AND LEVELING THE 
                   PLAYING FIELD BY ELIMINATING ALL ENERGY TAX 
                   CREDITS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     simplifying the tax code and leveling the playing field by 
     eliminating all energy tax credits by the amounts provided in 
     such legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1393. Mrs. CAPITO submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO TAX 
                   RELIEF FOR HARD-WORKING MIDDLE-CLASS AMERICANS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     changes in Federal tax laws, which may include reducing 
     federal deductions, such as the state and local tax deduction 
     which disproportionally favors high-income individuals, to 
     ensure relief for middle-income taxpayers, by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1394. Mr. KING submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO OFFSETS 
                   FROM REVENUE LOSSES THAT MAY RESULT FROM TAX 
                   REFORM.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     offsets for revenue losses that may result from tax reform, 
     which may include a temporary surtax paid by Americans in the 
     highest Federal income tax bracket, by the amounts provided 
     in such legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1395. Mr. KING submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   ADDRESSING THE OPIOID EPIDEMIC BY PROVIDING 
                   ACCESS TO PREVENTION PROGRAMS AND SUBSTANCE USE 
                   DISORDER TREATMENT FUNDING FOR STRONG 
                   INTERDICTION EFFORTS, WITH A PARTICULAR 
                   EMPHASIS ON RURAL COMMUNITIES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     addressing the opioid epidemic by providing access to 
     prevention programs and substance use disorder treatment and 
     funding for strong interdiction efforts, with a particular 
     emphasis on rural communities by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1396. Ms. DUCKWORTH submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   STRENGTHENING THE NATION'S INLAND WATERWAYS 
                   SYSTEM.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     strengthening the Nation's inland waterways system, which may 
     include improving or replacing aging locks and dams, by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1397. Ms. DUCKWORTH submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41_. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST ANY TAX-RELATED LEGISLATION 
                   THAT DOES NOT ELIMINATE THE CARRIED INTEREST 
                   LOOPHOLE AND USE THE INCREASE IN REVENUE TO 
                   FUND CLEAN WATER AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT 
                   PROGRAMS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that 
     amends the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and that does not 
     eliminate the carried interest loophole and use the increase 
     in revenue to fund the clean water state revolving fund, the 
     safe drinking water state revolving fund, and the Department 
     of Agriculture's rural development programs.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1398. Ms. DUCKWORTH submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   STRENGTHENING INVESTMENTS IN CERTAIN 
                   INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     strengthening investments in infrastructure projects that 
     have significant impacts on the United States or a region or 
     metropolitan area in the United States, including the 
     Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery 
     (TIGER) grant program and the Infrastructure for Rebuilding 
     America (INFRA) grant

[[Page S6590]]

     program by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2027.

                          ____________________



