

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 207 (Tuesday, December 19, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 207 (Tuesday, December 19, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S8142]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       TRIBUTE TO BILL DAUGHERTY

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, today I wish to congratulate Mr. Bill 
Daugherty of Lexington, KY, who was recently honored by Berea College 
with its distinguished alumnus award. Each year, the school recognizes 
notable alumni who have achieved success in their profession, 
contributed to the community, and have faithfully upheld Berea's 
mission. The college, founded in 1855 by abolitionists, fosters an 
educational institution that cultivates Christian values and challenges 
students to carry them into action in their community.
  Raised on a cattle farm in Jackson County, KY, Bill graduated from 
Berea in 1976, and he used his degree in agriculture to succeed in the 
natural resource industry. Less than 10 years later, he founded his own 
small petroleum business. His company evolved and grew to focus on 
natural gas in the Appalachian region. After years of success, Bill and 
his business partner founded an independent oil exploration and 
production company.
  Bill has served his community on the board of the Kentucky Energy 
Council, Kentucky Oil and Gas Association, and the Independent 
Petroleum Association of America. He currently serves as the vice 
chairman of the Interstate Oil and Gas Compact Commission, which is 
tasked with helping States find environment-friendly ways to increase 
the supply of American energy.
  Finally, Bill and his business partner founded a successful horse 
racing and breeding enterprise. His success in the natural gas industry 
was matched in the thoroughbred racing industry. In fact, Bill's own 
horse, California Chrome, won the Kentucky Derby in 2014.
  The distinguished alumnus award is not only a recognition of 
significant accomplishment in the recipient's chosen profession, but it 
also serves as an inspiration to the current students at Berea College 
who are eager to make their own positive impact in the community. Bill 
and his wife, Zella, play active roles in the community by hosting 
events in support of the New Opportunity School for Women, an intensive 
3-week program that offers coursework in job search skills, creative 
writing, and Appalachian literature. I want to ask my colleagues to 
join me in congratulating Bill for receiving this award and commending 
him on a successful career.

                          ____________________



