

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 153 (Monday, September 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 153 (Monday, September 25, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S5882-S5883]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

       225TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE CONNECTICUT STATE MEDICAL SOCIETY

 Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize the 
Connecticut State Medical Society, as they celebrate 225 years of 
dedicated service to the medical profession and to the improvement of 
health services for Connecticut residents.
  Founded in 1792, the Connecticut State Medical Society consists of 
more than 7,000 physicians who provide healthcare across the State. The 
society enhances the profession of medicine by providing educational 
courses and innovative learning experiences to physicians, which helps 
improve the overall quality of healthcare services and safeguards 
patient health.

[[Page S5883]]

  For two and a quarter centuries, the society has set an impressive 
example for all physicians and served as a leader on countless issues 
that impact the health of our citizens. Early member physicians founded 
the Yale School of Medicine, the State's first general hospital--now 
known as Yale-New Haven Hospital--the world's first tumor registry, and 
many other medical milestones that have shaped the health of 
Connecticut and the Nation.
  Most recently, the society has been at the forefront of efforts to 
combat the current addiction crisis and opioid abuse by working with 
policymakers to enact State laws tightening opioid prescribing, 
expanding knowledge and understanding of opioid addiction, and 
providing greater access to treatment. The society has also worked for 
many years to educate physicians, patients, and the general public on 
opioid abuse, as well as mental and behavioral health issues.
  To its credit, the society goes beyond improving the quality of 
health services for the people of Connecticut. It has strongly 
advocated for affordable and accessible health insurance coverage while 
fighting against harmful consolidations of healthcare facilities that 
would result in less health service availability at a higher cost. The 
society is helping to address inequities in health services and 
disparities in health outcomes. Further, the society is a strong 
advocate for transparency throughout the entire healthcare insurance 
delivery system, ensuring its health services are easy to understand.
  Steeped in rich history but always forward thinking, the Connecticut 
State Medical Society is a catalyst for positive change. I applaud the 
society's accomplishments and hope my colleagues will join me in 
congratulating the Connecticut State Medical Society for its 225 years 
of service.

                          ____________________



