

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 204 (Thursday, December 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 204 (Thursday, December 14, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S8049]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. FLAKE. Mr. President, I have 5 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


                      Committee on Armed Services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, December 14, 2017, at 10 a.m. to 
conduct a hearing.


                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, December 14, 2017, at 10 a.m. to 
hold a hearing entitled ``New Counterterrorism Guidance''.


        Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs

  The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, 
December 14, 2017, at 10 a.m., in room to conduct a hearing on the 
nomination of Margaret Weichert, of Georgia, to be Deputy Director for 
Management, Office of Management and Budget.


                       Committee on the Judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, December 14, 2017, at 10 a.m., in 
room SD-226 to conduct a hearing on S. 2152, ``Amy, Vicky, and Andy 
Child Pornography Victim Assistance Act of 2017'' and on the following 
nominations: Stuart Kyle Duncan, of Louisiana, to be United States 
Circuit Judge for the Fifth Circuit, David Ryan Stras, of Minnesota, to 
be United States Circuit Judge for the Eighth Circuit, Fernando 
Rodriguez, Jr., to be United States District Judge for the Southern 
District of Texas, Andrei Iancu, of California, to be Under Secretary 
of Commerce for Intellectual Property and Director of the United States 
Patent and Trademark Office, and Duane A. Kees, to be United States 
Attorney for the Western District of Arkansas, Stephen R. McAllister, 
to be United States Attorney for the District of Kansas, Ronald A. 
Parsons, Jr., to be United States Attorney for the District of South 
Dakota, Ryan K. Patrick, to be United States Attorney for the Southern 
District of Texas, and Michael B. Stuart, to be United States Attorney 
for the Southern District of West Virginia, all of the Department of 
Justice.


                    Select Committee on Intelligence

  The Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, December 14, 2017, at 2 p.m. to 
conduct a closed hearing.

                          ____________________



