

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 195 (Thursday, November 30, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 195 (Thursday, November 30, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H9521-H9522]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                NATIONAL NATIVE AMERICAN HERITAGE MONTH

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Arizona (Mr. O'Halleran) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. O'HALLERAN. Mr. Speaker, today is the final day of National 
Native American Heritage Month.
  I rise today to honor and celebrate the rich history and traditions 
of Native Americans and to note the work we are doing in Congress to 
invest in infrastructure, education, and healthcare across the entire 
Indian Country.
  It is an immense privilege to work with Tribal communities across 
Arizona's First Congressional District. With more than 12 Tribes and 
nations in my district, I see the impact of Native American heritage in 
every town I visit, especially their strong commitment to family, 
community, and traditions--traditions, by the way, that people from all 
around the world come to see every year.

[[Page H9522]]

  It has been inspiring to see the many tributes my colleagues have 
shared here with this body throughout the month. It underscores the 
immense and immeasurable contributions of Native Americans to this 
country. Yesterday I spoke about the Navaho code talkers and all the 
code talkers and the veterans who have come from Native American lands.
  As a member of the congressional Native American Caucus, I am proud 
to work with Tribal leaders to strengthen the relationship between our 
country and their sovereign nations. There is a great deal to do to 
ensure rural, Tribal communities have access to 21st century 
infrastructure, education, and healthcare, but I am confident that the 
work we are doing will make these critical investments.
  Mr. Speaker, one of the founding principles of this great country is 
the celebration of diversity of its people. When we recognize that as a 
strength, we truly are a more perfect union.

                          ____________________



