

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 197 (Monday, December 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 197 (Monday, December 4, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9614]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                            BELLA, THE DEER

  (Ms. TENNEY asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend her remarks.)
  Ms. TENNEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize a former 
constituent and local legend, Bella, the white-tailed deer.
  Bella's saga as Pulaski's mascot began in 2009, when her mother was 
tragically hit by oncoming traffic. Alone, with nowhere to turn, a 
local farmer was kind enough to extend his barn to the motherless fawn. 
He took her in, cared for her throughout the cold months of winter, and 
named her Bella.
  Bella has spent her life happily wandering the streets of Pulaski, 
joining residents on walks with their dogs, meeting fishermen along the 
banks of the nearby Salmon River, and posing for selfies on the porches 
of residents throughout the village.
  The Village of Pulaski embraced and cared for Bella for 9 years. She 
was often seen wearing a bright orange dog collar so hunters would know 
who she was. Bella even had her own Facebook page with over 4,000 likes 
that kept residents up to date on her adventures and whereabouts.
  Sadly, Bella hasn't been seen for several months, and the consensus 
among residents and the local media is that Bella has passed on.

  Bella has brought joy to this beautiful community in the foothills of 
the Adirondack Mountains and the Tug Hill Plateau region and all who 
had the pleasure of meeting her. She was a village mascot and a symbol 
of the reciprocity of kindness shown by so many in our community.
  One compassionate resident reached out to an orphaned Bella when she 
needed help the most, and Bella spent the rest of her life paying us 
all back with her cheerful greetings and the warm spirit which reflects 
the grateful Pulaski community.

                          ____________________



