

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 147 (Tuesday, September 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 147 (Tuesday, September 12, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S5220-S5240]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           TEXT OF AMENDMENTS

  SA 940. Mrs. ERNST (for herself, Mr. Cotton, and Mrs. Shaheen) 
submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by her to the bill H.R. 
2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military 
activities of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and 
for defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe 
military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other 
purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle B of title I, add the following:

     SEC. __. INTERIM COMBAT SERVICE RIFLE.

       (a) Acquisition Authority.--The Secretary of the Army is 
     authorized to expedite acquiring a commercially available 
     off-the-shelf item, non-developmental item, or Government-
     off-the-shelf materiel solution for an Interim Combat Service 
     Rifle for purposes of defeating the evolving threat that has 
     placed the United States Armed Forces at increased risk.
       (b) Acceleration of Related Programs.--

[[Page S5221]]

       (1) In general.--To ensure a complete capability is fielded 
     simultaneously with the acquisition program authorized under 
     subsection (a), the Secretary is also authorized to use 
     funding under the program to accelerate by one year the Squad 
     Designated Marksman Rifle program and by two years the 
     Advanced Armor Piercing ammunition program.
       (2) Rule of construction.--The authority under this 
     subsection does not supersede the requirement to develop a 
     Next Generation Squad Weapon.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 941. Mr. CORNYN (for himself and Mr. Inhofe) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 2810, to 
authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and for 
defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 85, between lines 23 and 24, insert the following:
       ``(7)(A) The installation commander of a military 
     installation impacted by a proposed energy project shall 
     submit to the Clearinghouse a statement of objection or non-
     objection regarding the impact of proposed project.
       ``(B) The statement shall include the following elements:
       ``(i) An analysis of the impact on pilot safety, training, 
     military operations, and readiness.
       ``(ii) A detailed description of any potential negative 
     impacts on pilot safety, training, military operations, and 
     readiness.
       ``(iii) Any additional information the installation 
     commander determines relevant for consideration in the 
     evaluation process.
       ``(iv) A statement of objection or non-objection.
       ``(C) The installation commander's recommendation shall be 
     incorporated into the Clearinghouse analysis and made a 
     matter of permanent record.
       ``(D) Any decision by the Clearinghouse that contradicts 
     the installation commander recommendation shall be 
     accompanied by a report addressing all the points made in the 
     installation commander's statement, and describe how any 
     impacts on pilot safety, training, military operations, and 
     readiness will be prevented.''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 942. Mr. ISAKSON (for himself and Mr. Perdue) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 2810, to 
authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and for 
defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle D of title I, add the following:

     SEC. ___. PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR RETIREMENT 
                   OF E-8 JSTARS AIRCRAFT.

       (a) Prohibition on Available of Funds for Retirement.--No 
     funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise 
     made available for fiscal year 2018 for the Air Force may be 
     obligated or expended to retire, prepare to retire, or place 
     in storage or on backup aircraft inventory status any E-8 
     JSTARS aircraft.
       (b) Additional Limitations on Retirement.--
       (1) In general.--In addition to the limitation in 
     subsection (a), during the period before December 31, 2018, 
     the Secretary of the Air Force may not retire, prepare to 
     retire, or place in storage or on backup flying status any E-
     8 JSTARS aircraft.
       (2) Minimum inventory requirement.--The Secretary of the 
     Air Force shall ensure the Air Force maintains the entire 
     current fleet of E-8 aircraft as primary mission aircraft 
     inventory.
       (c) Prohibition on Availability of Funds for Significant 
     Reductions in Manning Levels.--No funds authorized to be 
     appropriated by this Act of otherwise made available for 
     fiscal year 2018 for the Air Force may be obligated or 
     expended to make significant reductions to manning levels 
     with respect to any E-8 JSTARS aircraft wing or squadron.
       (d) Additional Limitation on Significant Reductions in 
     Manning Levels.--In addition to the limitation in subsection 
     (c), during the period before December 31, 2018, the 
     Secretary of the Air Force may not make significant 
     reductions to manning levels with respect to any E-8 JSTARS 
     wing or squadron.

     SEC. __. REQUIREMENT FOR CONTINUATION OF E-8 JSTARS 
                   RECAPITALIZATION PROGRAM.

       The Secretary of the Air Force shall continue the current 
     recapitalization plan for the E-8C JSTARS fleet until the 
     Secretary of Defense certifies that a new approach would not 
     result in increased capability gaps in Battlefield 
     Management, Command and Control/Intelligence, Surveillance, 
     and Reconnaissance (BMC2/ISR).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 943. Mr. ISAKSON (for himself and Mr. Perdue) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 2810, to 
authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and for 
defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle E of title XXVIII, add the 
     following:

     SEC. __. JOINT USE OF DOBBINS AIR RESERVE BASE, MARIETTA, 
                   GEORGIA, WITH CIVIL AVIATION.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Air Force may enter 
     into an agreement that would provide or permit the joint use 
     of Dobbins Air Reserve Base, Marietta, Georgia, by the Air 
     Force and civil aircraft.
       (b) Conforming Repeal.--Section 312 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 1989 (Public Law 100-456; 102 
     Stat. 1950) is hereby repealed.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 944. Mr. FLAKE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title VI, add the following:

     SEC. ___. ELEMENT IN NEXT QUADRENNIAL REVIEW OF MILITARY 
                   COMPENSATION ON VALUE ASSIGNED BY MEMBERS OF 
                   THE ARMED FORCES TO VARIOUS ASPECTS OF MILITARY 
                   COMPENSATION.

       (a) In General.--The President shall ensure that the first 
     quadrennial review of the principals and concepts of the 
     compensation system for members of the uniformed services 
     under section 1008(b) of title 37, United States Code, after 
     the date of the enactment of this Act includes a review of 
     the comparative value members of the Armed Forces assign to 
     various aspects of military compensation, including immediate 
     and deferred cash compensation and in-kind compensation.
       (b) Surveys.--The review required by subsection (a) shall 
     be based on an analysis of one or more surveys, conducted for 
     purposes of the review, of representative populations of 
     members of the Armed Forces, including regular members of the 
     Armed Forces and members of the reserve components of the 
     Armed Forces.
       (c) Inclusion in Report.--The President shall include the 
     results of the review required by subsection (a) in the first 
     report submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1008(b) of 
     title 37, after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 945. Mr. FLAKE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title X, add the following:

     SEC. ___. INFORMATION ON DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FUNDING IN 
                   DEPARTMENT PRESS RELEASES AND RELATED PUBLIC 
                   STATEMENTS ON PROGRAMS, PROJECTS, AND 
                   ACTIVITIES FUNDED BY THE DEPARTMENT.

       (a) Information Required.--
       (1) In general.--Subchapter II of chapter 134 of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended by inserting after section 
     2257 the following new section:

     ``Sec. 2258. Department of Defense press releases and related 
       public statements on Department funded programs, projects, 
       and activities

       ``Any press release, statement, or other document issued to 
     the public by the Department of Defense that describes a 
     program, project, or activity funded, whether in whole or in 
     part, by amounts provided by the Department, including any 
     project, project, or activity of a foreign, State, or local 
     government, shall clearly state the following:
       ``(1) That the program, project, or activity is funded, in 
     whole or in part (as applicable), by funds provided by the 
     Department.
       ``(2) An estimate of the amount of funding from the 
     Department that the program, project, or activity currently 
     receives.''.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of subchapter II of chapter 134 of such title is 
     amended by inserting after the item relating to section 2257 
     the following new item:

``2258. Department of Defense press releases and related public 
              statements on Department funded programs, projects, and 
              activities.''.
       (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section 
     shall take effect on the

[[Page S5222]]

     date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply with 
     respect to programs, projects, and activities funded by the 
     Department of Defense with amounts authorized to be 
     appropriated for fiscal years after fiscal year 2018.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 946. Mr. MORAN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle D of title III, add the following:

     SEC. ___. PROHIBITION ON TRANSFER OF THE TOOLS AND EQUIPMENT 
                   OF THE ADVANCED TURBINE ENGINE ARMY MAINTENANCE 
                   OF THE ARMY NATIONAL GUARD.

       No action may be taken to reduce the capability of, or to 
     eliminate or transfer the tools and equipment of, the 
     Advanced Turbine Engine Army Maintenance (ATEAM) of the Army 
     National Guard until the Secretary of Defense certifies each 
     of the following:
       (1) That Advanced Turbine Engine Army Maintenance 
     capabilities relating to the capability do not result in any 
     cost avoidance or savings to the Department of Defense.
       (2) That there is no existing or anticipated requirement 
     for Advanced Turbine Engine Army Maintenance technical 
     expertise and capabilities among any Armed Force or the 
     militaries of United States allies (through the Foreign 
     Military Sales program) that cannot be done by another 
     capability in the Department of Defense.
       (3) That there is no existing or anticipated requirement to 
     support and maintain readiness of any unit of the Armed 
     Forces, including Army National Guard units in the Idaho, 
     Kansas, Minnesota, Mississippi, Montana, Nevada, North 
     Carolina, Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, and 
     Tennessee, or any other unit of the Army National Guard under 
     the control of a State, that may require the capabilities of 
     the Advanced Turbine Engine Army Maintenance for on-site 
     repair or field support during training events or otherwise 
     that cannot be done by another capability in the Department.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 947. Mr. MORAN (for himself and Mr. Roberts) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 2810, to 
authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and for 
defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle E of title X, add the following:

     SEC. ___. ARMY MILITARY VALUE ANALYSIS MODEL.

       (a) Finding.--Congress finds that the Military Value 
     Analysis model of the Army has been a key determinant for the 
     force structure and strategic basing decisions of the Army in 
     recent years.
       (b) Briefing.--The Secretary of the Army shall, pending the 
     submittal of the report required by subsection (c), provide 
     the congressional defense committees a briefing on the 
     preliminary findings of a force structure and basing decision 
     for the Army not later than 60 days before making a formal or 
     final decision on such force structure and basing.
       (c) Report on Updated Model.--
       (1) Report required.--Not later than 120 days after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit 
     to the congressional defense committees a report setting 
     forth an update of the Military Value Analysis model of the 
     Army.
       (2) Review.--The Secretary shall update the Military Value 
     Analysis model for purposes of the report required by 
     paragraph (1) following a review undertaken by the Secretary 
     for purposes of the update. The review and update shall 
     address and appropriately incorporate the following:
       (A) Qualitative and quantitative criteria and sub-criteria 
     to be used for force structure and strategic basing 
     decisions, including quantitative and qualitative measures on 
     the average daily use of, and accessibility to, maneuver 
     training acreage.
       (B) Deployment criteria using a measure of the time 
     required to deploy a unit of action from its home 
     installation to its deployment site, including the 
     transportation of unit personnel by military aircraft, and 
     transportation of the commonly defined set of unit equipment 
     to its designated out-port for deployment.
       (d) Scoring Data for Force Structure and Major Basing 
     Decisions.--After making a force structure or major basing 
     decision for the Army, the Secretary shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees a report setting forth the 
     scoring data developed pursuant to the Military Value 
     Analysis model of the Army with respect to each military 
     installation considered for purposes of the decision.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 948. Mr. MORAN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle C of title XVI, add the following:

     SEC. 1630C. NATIONAL GUARD BUREAU PUBLIC-PRIVATE CYBER-
                   SECURITY COALITION.

       (a) Establishment.--
       (1) In general.--The Director of the National Guard Bureau 
     shall establish regionally focused coalitions, tasked with 
     creating cross-functional partnerships and strategies to 
     coordinate and share information among local, regional, and 
     national entities, both public and private, in order to 
     protect vital assets in the cyber realm.
       (2) Blending skill sets.--The coalitions established under 
     paragraph (1) shall seek to create partnerships described in 
     such paragraph that blend divergent skill sets to collaborate 
     on joint defense of public and private systems that each face 
     cyber assault.
       (3) Coordination, cooperation, and shared analysis.--Such 
     partnerships shall address threats equally shared among the 
     entities participating in the partnerships through local 
     coordination, shared cooperation, and shared analysis across 
     the overarching cyber defense network.
       (b) Goal.--The goal of the coalitions established under 
     subsection (a) is to coordinate National Guard State cyber 
     protection assets and to collaborate with locally based 
     Federal agencies and private industry stakeholders in order 
     to broaden the collective intellectual capital, to strengthen 
     active participation and sharing of information, to integrate 
     new threat mitigation strategies, and to grow the cyber 
     network through shared experience.
       (c) Duties.--The coalitions established under subsection 
     (a) shall carry out the following:
       (1) Development of a framework for the conduct by relevant 
     public and private cyber-enabled entities, while coordinating 
     with regional assets of the Department of Homeland Security, 
     the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the National Security 
     Agency, and the Department of Defense, as appropriate.
       (2) Dissemination of common operating paradigms across 
     relevant organizations specified in paragraph (1) to promote 
     active participation in a shared goal of national asset 
     protection through a regionally focused coalitions.
       (3) Collection across local entities for consolidating, 
     packaging, and sharing data to the Department of Defense, 
     intelligence agencies, or relevant organizations for 
     analysis.
       (4) Using already established State fusion center 
     partnerships as a template, the National Guard shall assess 
     individual State cyber assets and capabilities currently 
     collaborating with local agencies and private industry for 
     proper synchronization in the cyber and critical 
     infrastructure realms as a bridge for cooperation with 
     Federal defense agencies writ large.
       (d) Head of Cross-functional Task.--The Director of the 
     National Guard Bureau shall appoint as the head of each 
     coalition established under subsection (a) such individual as 
     the Director considers appropriate from among individuals 
     serving in the region of interest a State adjutant general. 
     In cases where regional priorities overlap, the adjutant 
     generals for States involved will co-chair the coalition.
       (e) Periodic Status Reports.--Not later than 180 days after 
     the date of the enactment of this Act and not less frequently 
     than once every 180 days thereafter until the date that is 
     three years after the date of such submittal, the Director 
     shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
     describing the status of the efforts of the Director to carry 
     out this section and the efforts of the coalitions to carry 
     out subsection (c).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 949. Mr. MORAN (for himself, Mr. Udall, Mr. Daines, and Mr. 
Warner) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him to the 
bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for 
military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title X, add the following:

             Subtitle H--Modernizing Government Technology

     SEC. 1091. SHORT TITLE.

       This subtitle may be cited as the ``Modernizing Government 
     Technology Act of 2017'' or the ``MGT Act''.

     SEC. 1092. DEFINITIONS.

       In this subtitle:
       (1) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
     Administrator of General Services.
       (2) Board.--The term ``Board'' means the Technology 
     Modernization Board established under section 1094(c)(1).

[[Page S5223]]

       (3) Cloud computing.--The term ``cloud computing'' has the 
     meaning given the term by the National Institute of Standards 
     and Technology in NIST Special Publication 800-145 and any 
     amendatory or superseding document thereto.
       (4) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Director of 
     the Office of Management and Budget.
       (5) Fund.--The term ``Fund'' means the Technology 
     Modernization Fund established under section 1094(b)(1).
       (6) Information technology.--The term ``information 
     technology'' has the meaning given the term in section 3502 
     of title 44, United States Code.
       (7) IT working capital fund.--The term ``IT working capital 
     fund'' means an information technology system modernization 
     and working capital fund established under section 
     1093(b)(1).
       (8) Legacy information technology system.--The term 
     ``legacy information technology system'' means an outdated or 
     obsolete system of information technology.

     SEC. 1093. ESTABLISHMENT OF AGENCY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY 
                   SYSTEMS MODERNIZATION AND WORKING CAPITAL 
                   FUNDS.

       (a) Definition.--In this section, the term ``covered 
     agency'' means each agency listed in section 901(b) of title 
     31, United States Code.
       (b) Information Technology System Modernization and Working 
     Capital Funds.--
       (1) Establishment.--The head of a covered agency may 
     establish within the covered agency an information technology 
     system modernization and working capital fund for necessary 
     expenses described in paragraph (3).
       (2) Source of funds.--The following amounts may be 
     deposited into an IT working capital fund:
       (A) Reprogramming and transfer of funds made available in 
     appropriations Acts enacted after the date of enactment of 
     this Act, including the transfer of any funds for the 
     operation and maintenance of legacy information technology 
     systems, in compliance with any applicable statutory transfer 
     authority or reprogramming law or guidelines of the 
     Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
     Representatives or transfer authority specifically provided 
     in appropriations law as in effect on the day before the date 
     of enactment of this Act.
       (B) Amounts made available to the IT working capital fund 
     through discretionary appropriations made available after the 
     date of enactment of this Act.
       (3) Use of funds.--An IT working capital fund established 
     under paragraph (1) may only be used--
       (A) to improve, retire, or replace existing information 
     technology systems in the covered agency to enhance 
     cybersecurity and to improve efficiency and effectiveness 
     across the life of a given workload, procured using full and 
     open competition among all commercial items to the greatest 
     extent practicable;
       (B) to transition legacy information technology systems at 
     the covered agency to commercial cloud computing and other 
     innovative commercial platforms and technologies, including 
     those serving more than 1 covered agency with common 
     requirements;
       (C) to assist and support covered agency efforts to provide 
     adequate, risk-based, and cost-effective information 
     technology capabilities that address evolving threats to 
     information security; and
       (D) to reimburse funds transferred to the covered agency 
     from the Fund with the approval of the Chief Information 
     Officer, in consultation with the Chief Financial Officer, of 
     the covered agency.
       (4) Existing funds.--An IT working capital fund may not be 
     used to supplant funds provided for the operation and 
     maintenance of any system within an appropriation for the 
     covered agency at the time of establishment of the IT working 
     capital fund.
       (5) Prioritization of funds.--The head of each covered 
     agency--
       (A) shall prioritize funds within the IT working capital 
     fund of the covered agency to be used initially for cost 
     savings activities approved by the Chief Information Officer 
     of the covered agency; and
       (B) may reprogram and transfer any amounts saved as a 
     direct result of the cost savings activities approved under 
     clause (i) for deposit into the IT working capital fund of 
     the covered agency, consistent with paragraph (2)(A).
       (6) Availability of funds.--
       (A) In general.--Any funds deposited into an IT working 
     capital fund shall be available for obligation for the 3-year 
     period beginning on the last day of the fiscal year in which 
     the funds were deposited.
       (B) Transfer of unobligated amounts.--Any amounts in an IT 
     working capital fund that are unobligated at the end of the 
     3-year period described in subparagraph (A) shall be 
     transferred to the general fund of the Treasury.
       (7) Agency cio responsibilities.--In evaluating projects to 
     be funded by the IT working capital fund of a covered agency, 
     the Chief Information Officer of the covered agency shall 
     consider, to the extent applicable, guidance issued under 
     section 1094(b)(1) to evaluate applications for funding from 
     the Fund that include factors including a strong business 
     case, technical design, consideration of commercial off-the-
     shelf products and services, procurement strategy (including 
     adequate use of rapid, iterative software development 
     practices), and program management.
       (c) Reporting Requirement.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, and every 6 months thereafter, the 
     head of each covered agency shall submit to the Director, 
     with respect to the IT working capital fund of the covered 
     agency--
       (A) a list of each information technology investment 
     funded, including the estimated cost and completion date for 
     each investment; and
       (B) a summary by fiscal year of obligations, expenditures, 
     and unused balances.
       (2) Public availability.--The Director shall make the 
     information submitted under paragraph (1) publicly available 
     on a website.

     SEC. 1094. ESTABLISHMENT OF TECHNOLOGY MODERNIZATION FUND AND 
                   BOARD.

       (a) Definition.--In this section, the term ``agency'' has 
     the meaning given the term in section 551 of title 5, United 
     States Code.
       (b) Technology Modernization Fund.--
       (1) Establishment.--There is established in the Treasury a 
     Technology Modernization Fund for technology-related 
     activities, to improve information technology, to enhance 
     cybersecurity across the Federal Government, and to be 
     administered in accordance with guidance issued by the 
     Director.
       (2) Administration of fund.--The Administrator, in 
     consultation with the Chief Information Officers Council and 
     with the approval of the Director, shall administer the Fund 
     in accordance with this subsection.
       (3) Use of funds.--The Administrator shall, in accordance 
     with recommendations from the Board, use amounts in the 
     Fund--
       (A) to transfer such amounts, to remain available until 
     expended, to the head of an agency for the acquisition of 
     products and services, or the development of such products 
     and services when more efficient and cost effective, to 
     improve, retire, or replace existing Federal information 
     technology systems to enhance cybersecurity and privacy and 
     improve long-term efficiency and effectiveness;
       (B) to transfer such amounts, to remain available until 
     expended, to the head of an agency for the operation and 
     procurement of information technology products and services, 
     or the development of such products and services when more 
     efficient and cost effective, and acquisition vehicles for 
     use by agencies to improve Governmentwide efficiency and 
     cybersecurity in accordance with the requirements of the 
     agencies; and
       (C) to provide services or work performed in support of--
       (i) the activities described in subparagraph (A) or (B); 
     and
       (ii) the Board and the Director in carrying out the 
     responsibilities described in subsection (c)(2).
       (4) Authorization of appropriations; credits; availability 
     of funds.--
       (A) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized 
     to be appropriated to the Fund $250,000,000 for each of 
     fiscal years 2018 and 2019.
       (B) Credits.--In addition to any funds otherwise 
     appropriated, the Fund shall be credited with all 
     reimbursements, advances, or refunds or recoveries relating 
     to information technology or services provided for the 
     purposes described in paragraph (3).
       (C) Availability of funds.--Amounts deposited, credited, or 
     otherwise made available to the Fund shall be available until 
     expended for the purposes described in paragraph (3).
       (5) Reimbursement.--
       (A) Reimbursement by agency.--
       (i) In general.--The head of an agency shall reimburse the 
     Fund for any transfer made under subparagraph (A) or (B) of 
     paragraph (3), including any services or work performed in 
     support of the transfer under paragraph (3)(C), in accordance 
     with the terms established in a written agreement described 
     in paragraph (6).
       (ii) Reimbursement from subsequent appropriations.--
     Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an agency may 
     make a reimbursement required under clause (i) from any 
     appropriation made available after the date of enactment of 
     this Act for information technology activities, consistent 
     with any applicable reprogramming law or guidelines of the 
     Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
     Representatives as in effect on the day before the date of 
     enactment of this Act.
       (iii) Recording of obligation.--Notwithstanding section 
     1501 of title 31, United States Code, an obligation to make a 
     payment under a written agreement described in paragraph (6) 
     in a fiscal year after the date of enactment of this Act 
     shall be recorded in the fiscal year in which the payment is 
     due.
       (B) Prices fixed by administrator.--
       (i) In general.--The Administrator, in consultation with 
     the Director, shall establish amounts to be paid by an agency 
     under this paragraph and the terms of repayment for 
     activities funded under paragraph (3), including any services 
     or work performed in support of that development under 
     paragraph (3)(C), at levels sufficient to ensure the solvency 
     of the Fund, including operating expenses.
       (ii) Review and approval.--Before making any changes to the 
     established amounts and terms of repayment, the Administrator 
     shall conduct a review and obtain approval from the Director.
       (C) Failure to make timely reimbursement.--The 
     Administrator may obtain reimbursement from an agency under 
     this paragraph by the issuance of transfer and 
     counterwarrants, or other lawful transfer

[[Page S5224]]

     documents, supported by itemized bills, if payment is not 
     made by the agency during the 90-day period beginning after 
     the expiration of a repayment period described in a written 
     agreement described in paragraph (6).
       (6) Written agreement.--
       (A) In general.--Before the transfer of funds to an agency 
     under subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (3), the 
     Administrator, in consultation with the Director, and the 
     head of the agency shall enter into a written agreement--
       (i) documenting the purpose for which the funds will be 
     used and the terms of repayment, which may not exceed 5 years 
     unless approved by the Director; and
       (ii) which shall be recorded as an obligation as provided 
     in paragraph (5)(A).
       (B) Requirement for use of incremental funding, commercial 
     products and services, and rapid, iterative development 
     practices.--The Administrator shall ensure--
       (i) for any funds transferred to an agency under paragraph 
     (3)(A), in the absence of compelling circumstances documented 
     by the Administrator at the time of transfer, that such funds 
     shall be transferred only on an incremental basis, tied to 
     metric-based development milestones achieved by the agency 
     through the use of rapid, iterative, development processes; 
     and
       (ii) that the use of commercial products and services are 
     incorporated to the greatest extent practicable in activities 
     funded under subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (3), and 
     that the written agreement required under paragraph (6) 
     documents this preference.
       (7) Reporting requirements.--
       (A) List of projects.--
       (i) In general.--Not later than 6 months after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, the Director shall maintain a list of 
     each project funded by the Fund, to be updated not less than 
     quarterly, that includes a description of the project, 
     project status (including any schedule delay and cost 
     overruns), financial expenditure data related to the project, 
     and the extent to which the project is using commercial 
     products and services, including if applicable, a 
     justification of why commercial products and services were 
     not used and the associated development and integration costs 
     of custom development.
       (ii) Public availability.--The list required under clause 
     (i) shall be published on a public website in a manner that 
     is, to the greatest extent possible, consistent with 
     applicable law on the protection of classified information, 
     sources, and methods.
       (B) Comptroller general reports.--Not later than 2 years 
     after the date of enactment of this Act, and every 2 years 
     thereafter, the Comptroller General of the United States 
     shall submit to Congress and make publically available a 
     report assessing--
       (i) the costs associated with establishing the Fund and 
     maintaining the oversight structure associated with the Fund 
     compared with the cost savings associated with the projects 
     funded both annually and over the life of the acquired 
     products and services by the Fund;
       (ii) the reliability of the cost savings estimated by 
     agencies associated with projects funded by the Fund;
       (iii) whether agencies receiving transfers of funds from 
     the Fund used full and open competition to acquire the custom 
     development of information technology products or services; 
     and
       (iv) the number of IT procurement, development, and 
     modernization programs, offices, and entities in the Federal 
     Government, including 18F and the United States Digital 
     Services, the roles, responsibilities, and goals of those 
     programs and entities, and the extent to which they duplicate 
     work.
       (c) Technology Modernization Board.--
       (1) Establishment.--There is established a Technology 
     Modernization Board to evaluate proposals submitted by 
     agencies for funding authorized under the Fund.
       (2) Responsibilities.--The responsibilities of the Board 
     are--
       (A) to provide input to the Director for the development of 
     processes for agencies to submit modernization proposals to 
     the Board and to establish the criteria by which those 
     proposals are evaluated, which shall include--
       (i) addressing the greatest security, privacy, and 
     operational risks;
       (ii) having the greatest Governmentwide impact; and
       (iii) having a high probability of success based on factors 
     including a strong business case, technical design, 
     consideration of commercial off-the-shelf products and 
     services, procurement strategy (including adequate use of 
     rapid, agile iterative software development practices), and 
     program management;
       (B) to make recommendations to the Administrator to assist 
     agencies in the further development and refinement of select 
     submitted modernization proposals, based on an initial 
     evaluation performed with the assistance of the 
     Administrator;
       (C) to review and prioritize, with the assistance of the 
     Administrator and the Director, modernization proposals based 
     on criteria established pursuant to subparagraph (A);
       (D) to identify, with the assistance of the Administrator, 
     opportunities to improve or replace multiple information 
     technology systems with a smaller number of information 
     technology services common to multiple agencies;
       (E) to recommend the funding of modernization projects, in 
     accordance with the uses described in subsection (b)(3), to 
     the Administrator;
       (F) to monitor, in consultation with the Administrator, 
     progress and performance in executing approved projects and, 
     if necessary, recommend the suspension or termination of 
     funding for projects based on factors including the failure 
     to meet the terms of a written agreement described in 
     subsection (b)(6); and
       (G) to monitor the operating costs of the Fund.
       (3) Membership.--The Board shall consist of 7 voting 
     members.
       (4) Chair.--The Chair of the Board shall be the 
     Administrator of the Office of Electronic Government.
       (5) Permanent members.--The permanent members of the Board 
     shall be--
       (A) the Administrator of the Office of Electronic 
     Government; and
       (B) a senior official from the General Services 
     Administration having technical expertise in information 
     technology development, appointed by the Administrator, with 
     the approval of the Director.
       (6) Additional members of the board.--
       (A) Appointment.--The other members of the Board shall be--
       (i) 1 employee of the National Protection and Programs 
     Directorate of the Department of Homeland Security, appointed 
     by the Secretary of Homeland Security; and
       (ii) 4 employees of the Federal Government primarily having 
     technical expertise in information technology development, 
     financial management, cybersecurity and privacy, and 
     acquisition, appointed by the Director.
       (B) Term.--Each member of the Board described in paragraph 
     (A) shall serve a term of 1 year, which shall be renewable 
     not more than 4 times at the discretion of the appointing 
     Secretary or Director, as applicable.
       (7) Prohibition on compensation.--Members of the Board may 
     not receive additional pay, allowances, or benefits by reason 
     of their service on the Board.
       (8) Staff.--Upon request of the Chair of the Board, the 
     Director and the Administrator may detail, on a reimbursable 
     or nonreimbursable basis, any employee of the Federal 
     Government to the Board to assist the Board in carrying out 
     the functions of the Board.
       (d) Responsibilities of Administrator.--
       (1) In general.--In addition to the responsibilities 
     described in subsection (b), the Administrator shall support 
     the activities of the Board and provide technical support to, 
     and, with the concurrence of the Director, oversight of, 
     agencies that receive transfers from the Fund.
       (2) Responsibilities.--The responsibilities of the 
     Administrator are--
       (A) to provide direct technical support in the form of 
     personnel services or otherwise to agencies transferred 
     amounts under subsection (b)(3)(A) and for products, 
     services, and acquisition vehicles funded under subsection 
     (b)(3)(B);
       (B) to assist the Board with the evaluation, 
     prioritization, and development of agency modernization 
     proposals.
       (C) to perform regular project oversight and monitoring of 
     approved agency modernization projects, in consultation with 
     the Board and the Director, to increase the likelihood of 
     successful implementation and reduce waste; and
       (D) to provide the Director with information necessary to 
     meet the requirements of subsection (b)(7).
       (e) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the 
     date that is 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
       (f) Sunset.--
       (1) In general.--On and after the date that is 2 years 
     after the date on which the Comptroller General of the United 
     States issues the third report required under subsection 
     (b)(7)(B), the Administrator may not award or transfer funds 
     from the Fund for any project that is not already in progress 
     as of such date.
       (2) Transfer of unobligated amounts.--Not later than 90 
     days after the date on which all projects that received an 
     award from the Fund are completed, any amounts in the Fund 
     shall be transferred to the general fund of the Treasury and 
     shall be used for deficit reduction.
       (3) Termination of technology modernization board.--Not 
     later than 90 days after the date on which all projects that 
     received an award from the Fund are completed, the Technology 
     Modernization Board and all the authorities of subsection (c) 
     shall terminate.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 950. Mr. PETERS (for himself and Ms. Stabenow) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 2810, to 
authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and for 
defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle D of title I, add the following:

[[Page S5225]]

  


     SEC. __. AUTHORITY TO INCREASE PRIMARY AIRCRAFT AUTHORIZATION 
                   OF AIR FORCE AND AIR NATIONAL GUARD A-10 
                   AIRCRAFT UNITS FOR PURPOSES OF FACILITATING A-
                   10 CONVERSION.

       In the event that conversion of an A-10 aircraft unit is in 
     the best interest of a long-term Air Force mission, the 
     Secretary of the Air Force may increase the Primary Aircraft 
     Authorization of Air Force Reserve or Air National Guard A-10 
     units to 24 aircraft to facilitate such conversion.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 951. Mr. STRANGE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 99, line 21, insert after ``M-1 Garand,'' the 
     following: ``M-1 Carbine,''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 952. Mr. STRANGE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 564, line 11, insert after ``less'' the following: 
     ``expenses for shipping, securing, inspecting, gunsmithing, 
     cleaning, test-firing, marketing, and sales and other''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 953. Mr. THUNE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle D of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 338. REPORT ON OPTIMIZATION OF TRAINING IN AND 
                   MANAGEMENT OF SPECIAL USE AIRSPACE.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Bases, Ranges, 
     and Airspace Directorate of the Air Force shall, in 
     consultation with the Administrator of the Federal Aviation 
     Administration, submit to Congress a report on optimization 
     of training in and management of special use airspace that 
     includes the following:
       (1) Best practices for the management of special use 
     airspace including such practices that--
       (A) result in cost savings relating to training;
       (B) increase training opportunities for airmen;
       (C) increase joint use of such airspace;
       (D) improve coordination with respect to such airspace 
     with--
       (i) the Federal Aviation Administration;
       (ii) Indian tribes; and
       (iii) private landowners and other stakeholders; or
       (E) improve the coordination of large force exercises, 
     including the use of waivers or other exceptional measures.
       (2) An assessment of whether the capacity of ranges, 
     including limitations on flight operations, is adequate to 
     meet current and future training needs.
       (3) An assessment of whether the establishment of a 
     dedicated squadron for the purpose of coordinating the use of 
     a special use airspace at the installation located in that 
     airspace would improve the achievement of the objectives 
     described in subparagraphs (A) through (E) of paragraph (1).
       (4) Recommendations for improving the management and 
     utilization of special use airspace to meet the objectives 
     described in subparagraphs (A) through (E) of paragraph (1) 
     and to address any gaps in capacity identified under 
     paragraph (2).
       (b) Special Use Airspace Defined.--In this section, the 
     term ``special use airspace'' means special use airspace 
     designated under part 73 of title 14, Code of Federal 
     Regulations.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 954. Mr. GRAHAM submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title X, add the following:

     SEC. ___. ENHANCEMENT OF ECONOMICAL AND EFFICIENT OPERATION 
                   OF WORKING CAPITAL FUND ACTIVITIES.

       Section 2208(e) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(e)'' ; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(2) The accomplishment of the most economical and 
     efficient organization and operation of working capital fund 
     activities for the purposes of paragraph (1) shall include 
     actions toward the following:
       ``(A) Implementation of a workload plan that optimizes the 
     efficiency of the workforce operating within a working 
     capital fund activity and reduces the rate structure.
       ``(B) Encouragement for a working capital fund activity to 
     perform reimbursable work for other entities to sustain the 
     efficient use of the workforce.
       ``(C) Unless otherwise impracticable, delegation of the 
     approval process for the acceptance of work from other 
     entities to the local command executive director of a working 
     capital fund activity.''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 955. Mr. GRAHAM submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of section 504, add the following:
       (c) Deputy Judge Advocate of the Air Force.--Section 
     8037(e) of such title is amended--
       (1) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(e)''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(2) If the Secretary of the Air Force elects to convene a 
     selection board under section 611(a) of this title to 
     consider eligible officers for selection to appointment as 
     Deputy Judge Advocate General, the Secretary may, in 
     connection with such consideration for selection--
       ``(A) treat any section in chapter 36 of this title 
     referring to promotion to the next higher grade as if such 
     section referred to promotion to a higher grade; and
       ``(B) waive section 619(a)(2) of this title if the 
     Secretary determines that the needs of the Air Force require 
     the waiver.''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 956. Mr. GRAHAM submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the appropriate place in title XXVI, insert the 
     following:

     SEC. __. CONSTRUCTION OF NATIONAL GUARD READINESS CENTER AT 
                   JOINT BASE CHARLESTON, SOUTH CAROLINA.

       The Secretary of the Army may construct a National Guard 
     readiness center at Joint Base Charleston, South Carolina.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 957. Mr. GRAHAM (for himself and Mr. Bennet) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 2810, to 
authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and for 
defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 184, between lines 20 and 21, insert the following:
       (4) To provide workforce training, in coordination with 
     junior, community or technical colleges in the vicinity of 
     the locations of the pilot program, private industry, and 
     nonprofit organizations, for members of the Armed Forces 
     participating in the pilot program to transition to jobs in 
     the clean energy industry, including cyber and grid security, 
     natural gas, solar, wind, and geothermal fields.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 958. Mr. GRAHAM submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 184, line 2, strike ``satisfiable'' and insert 
     ``fulfilled''.
       On page 184, line 7, insert ``available pre-employment 
     testing and'' after ``identify gaps in the''.
       On page 184, line 13, insert ``testing or'' after 
     ``receive''.
       On page 187, line 14, insert ``public and private'' after 
     ``using existing''.
       On page 188, line 17, insert before the semicolon the 
     following: ``, and to determine the pre-employment testing 
     that could be readily added to veterans workforce training 
     programs to assist in that effort''.

[[Page S5226]]

       On page 189, line 7, insert ``pre-employment testing,'' 
     after ``credentials,''.
       On page 191, line 2, insert ``or pre-employment testing'' 
     after ``additional training''.
       On page 191, line 5, insert before the semicolon the 
     following: ``or testing''.
       On page 191, line 8, insert before the period the 
     following: ``, including any cost borne by private 
     entities''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 959. Mr. REED submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle B of title IX, add the following:

     SEC. ___. REPORT ON IMPLEMENTATION OF REQUIREMENTS IN 
                   CONNECTION WITH THE ORGANIZATION OF THE 
                   DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FOR MANAGEMENT OF SPECIAL 
                   OPERATIONS FORCES AND SPECIAL OPERATIONS.

       (a) Report Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
     the House of Representatives a report on the implementation 
     of section 922 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2354) and the 
     amendments made by that section (in this section collectively 
     referred to as the ``covered authority'').
       (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall 
     include the following:
       (1) A statement of the responsibilities of the Assistant 
     Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low Intensity 
     Conflict that is consistent with the covered authority, 
     including an identification of any responsibilities to be 
     divested by the Assistant Secretary pursuant to the covered 
     authority.
       (2) A resource-unconstrained analysis of manpower 
     requirements necessary to satisfy the responsibilities akin 
     to those of the Secretary of a military department that are 
     specified by the covered authority.
       (3) An accounting of civilian, military, and contractor 
     personnel currently assigned to the fulfillment of the 
     responsibilities akin to those of the Secretary of a military 
     department that are specified by the covered authority, 
     including responsibilities relating to budget, personnel, 
     programs and requirements, acquisition, and special access 
     programs.
       (4) A description of actions taken to implement the covered 
     authority as of the date of the report, including the 
     assignment of any additional civilian, military, or 
     contractor personnel to fulfill additional responsibilities 
     akin to those of the Secretary of a military department that 
     are specified by the covered authority.
       (5) An explanation how the responsibilities akin to those 
     of the Secretary of a military department that assigned to 
     the Assistant Secretary by the covered authority will be 
     fulfilled in the absence of additional personnel being 
     assigned to the office of the Assistant Secretary.
       (6) Any other matters the Secretary considers appropriate.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 960. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle G of title X, add the following:

     SEC. 1088. RESEARCH ON CAUSAL RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN VIETNAM 
                   ERA EXPOSURES AND BILE DUCT CANCER.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense, in coordination 
     with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, shall seek to enter 
     into an agreement with the National Academies of Sciences, 
     Engineering, and Medicine under which the National Academies 
     conduct epidemiological research to determine whether there 
     is a causal relationship between exposure described in 
     subsection (b) and bile duct cancer.
       (b) Exposure Described.--Exposure described in this 
     subsection is exposure to--
       (1) the range of phenoxy herbicides known to be present in 
     Vietnam and the greater Southeast Asia region (Agent Blue, 
     Orange, Pink, or White); or
       (2) liver fluke.
       (c) Recommendations.--
       (1) In general.--If research conducted under subsection (a) 
     indicates that there is at least suggestive evidence of 
     causality between an exposure described in subsection (b) and 
     bile duct cancer, the National Academies shall recommend to 
     the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, not later than 60 days 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act, that a 
     presumption of service-connection be established for bile 
     duct cancer for purposes of health care and other benefits 
     furnished to Vietnam era veterans under the laws administered 
     by the Secretary.
       (2) Transmittal to congress.--Not later than 30 days after 
     receiving recommendations under paragraph (1), the Secretary 
     of Veterans Affairs shall transmit those recommendations to 
     Congress.
       (d) Vietnam Era Defined.--In this section, the term 
     ``Vietnam era'' has the meaning given that term in section 
     101 of title 38, United States Code.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 961. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle G of title X, add the following:

     SEC. __. BRIEFING ON PLANS TO DEVELOP AND IMPROVE ADDITIVE 
                   MANUFACTURING CAPABILITIES.

       Not later than December 1, 2017, the Secretary of Defense 
     shall brief the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate 
     and the House of Representatives on the Department's plans to 
     develop and improve additive manufacturing, including the 
     Department's plans to--
       (1) develop military and quality assurance standards as 
     quickly as possible;
       (2) leverage current manufacturing institutes to conduct 
     research in the validation of quality standards for additive 
     manufactured parts; and
       (3) further integrate additive manufacturing capabilities 
     and capacity into the Department's organic depots, arsenals, 
     and shipyards.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 962. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

         At the end of part I of subtitle F of title V, add the 
     following:

     SEC. __. EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES FOR MILITARY CHILDREN IN 
                   SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, ENGINEERING, AND 
                   MATHEMATICS.

       (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
       (1) The United States military is keenly aware of the need 
     to support the families of those who serve our country.
       (2) Military children face unique challenges in educational 
     achievement due to frequent changes of station by, 
     deployments by, and even injuries to their parents.
       (3) Investing in quality education opportunities for all 
     military children from cradle to career ensures parents are 
     able to stay focused on the mission, and children are able to 
     benefit from consistent relationships with caring teachers 
     who support their early learning so they can be ready to 
     excel in school.
       (4) Investing in early learning for military children is an 
     important element in a comprehensive strategy for ensuring a 
     smart, skilled, and committed future national security 
     workforce.
       (5) To strengthen the global standing and military might of 
     the United States, technology, and innovation, the Nation 
     must continuously look for ways to strengthen early education 
     of children in science, technology, engineering, and 
     mathematics (STEM).
       (b) Guidance.--Not later than one year after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     issue guidance to the Armed Forces in order to ensure the 
     following:
       (1) The placement of a priority on supporting early 
     learning in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics 
     for children who are served in Military Child Development 
     programs, at Department of Defense schools, and schools 
     serving large military child populations.
       (2) Support for efforts to ensure that teachers and other 
     caregivers and staff serving military children have the 
     training and skills necessary to implement instruction in 
     science, technology, engineering, and mathematics that 
     provides the necessary foundation for future learning and 
     educational achievement in such areas.
       (3) Training and curriculum specialists and other personnel 
     who provide training and support to teachers of military 
     children are sufficiently trained to support developmentally 
     appropriate learning opportunities for such children in 
     science, technology, engineering, and mathematics.
       (c) Report.--Not later than two years after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress 
     a report setting forth the following:
       (1) A description and assessment of the progress made in 
     improving educational opportunities and achievement for 
     military children in science, technology, engineering, and 
     mathematics.
       (2) A description and assessment of efforts to implement 
     the guidance issued under subsection (b).

[[Page S5227]]

       (d) Independent Study.--It is the sense of Congress that 
     the Secretary should, in partnership with the Secretaries of 
     the military departments, conduct an independent evaluation 
     of efforts to strengthen teaching of military children in 
     science, technology, engineering, and mathematics, 
     including--
       (1) assessments of the impact of curriculum and education 
     programs in such areas on student achievement; and
       (2) a comparison of the educational achievements of 
     military children in such areas with the educational 
     achievements of nonmilitary children in such areas.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 963. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle C of title X, add the following:

     SEC. ___. SENSE OF SENATE ON NAMING A DESTROYER OF THE NAVY 
                   AFTER THE LATE PATRICK GALLAGHER, UNITED STATES 
                   MARINE CORPS.

       It is the sense of the Senate that the Secretary of the 
     Navy should name an otherwise unnamed destroyer of the Navy 
     on the Naval Vessel Register as of the date of the enactment 
     of this Act, or an unnamed destroyer added to the Naval 
     Vessel Register after that date, after the late Patrick 
     Gallagher, United States Marine Corps, who was awarded the 
     Navy Cross.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 964. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle B of title VIII, add the following:

     SEC. ___. ADDITION OF DOMESTICALLY PRODUCED STAINLESS STEEL 
                   FLATWARE TO THE BERRY AMENDMENT.

       (a) In General.--Section 2533a(b) of title 10, United 
     States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following 
     new paragraph:
       ``(3) Stainless steel flatware.''.
       (b) Effective Date.--Paragraph (3) of section 2533a(b) of 
     title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), 
     shall apply with respect to contracts entered into after the 
     date occurring one year after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 965. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle E of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 322. REPORT ON RELEASE OF RADIUM OR RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL 
                   INTO THE GROUNDWATER NEAR THE INDUSTRIAL 
                   RESERVE PLANT IN BETHPAGE, NEW YORK.

       Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress 
     an addendum to the report submitted to Congress in June 2017 
     entitled ``2017 Annual Report For Groundwater Impacts at 
     Naval Weapons Industrial Reserve Plant Bethpage, New York'' 
     that would detail any releases by the Department of Defense 
     of radium or radioactive material into the groundwater within 
     a 75-mile radius of the industrial reserve plant in Bethpage, 
     New York.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 966. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       In the funding table in section 4301, in the item relating 
     to Environmental Restoration, Navy, strike the amount in the 
     Senate Authorized column and insert ``$323,000,000''.
       In the funding table in section 4301, in the item relating 
     to Total Miscellaneous Appropriations, strike the amount in 
     the Senate Authorized column and insert ``$1,494,291''.
       In the funding table in section 4301, in the item relating 
     to Total Operation & Maintenance, strike the amount in the 
     Senate Authorized column and insert ``$194,945,230''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 967. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:
       Sec. __. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, of 
     the funds made available by this Act for Sustainment, 
     Restoration, and Modernization, Defense-wide, not less than 
     $20,000,000 shall be used by the Air Force and not less than 
     $15,000,000 shall be used by the Navy for mitigation efforts 
     by impacted National Guard installations to take actions that 
     mitigate identified sources of polyfluoroalkyl substances at 
     sites as a result of surveys conducted by the Air Force or 
     the Navy (as the case may be) so as to restore public 
     confidence in potable water which may be affected in those 
     sites.
       (b) Not later than December 31, 2017, the Secretary of 
     Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees 
     a report describing how the Secretary will allocate funds in 
     accordance with subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 968. Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself and Mr. Grassley) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 2810, to 
authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and for 
defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle D of title V, add the following:

     SEC. __. BURDENS OF PROOF APPLICABLE TO INVESTIGATIONS AND 
                   REVIEWS RELATED TO PROTECTED COMMUNICATIONS OF 
                   MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES AND PROHIBITED 
                   RETALIATORY ACTIONS.

       (a) In General.--Section 1034 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended--
       (1) by redesignating subsections (i) and (j) as subsections 
     (j) and (k), respectively; and
       (2) by inserting after subsection (h) the following new 
     subsection:
       ``(i) Burdens of Proof.--The burdens of proof specified in 
     section 1221(e) of title 5 shall apply in any investigation 
     conducted by an Inspector General under subsection (c) or 
     (d), any review performed by a board for the correction of 
     military records under subsection (g), and any review 
     conducted by the Secretary of Defense under subsection 
     (h).''.
       (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) 
     shall take effect on the date that is 30 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply with respect to 
     allegations pending or submitted under section 1034 of title 
     10, United States Code, on or after that date.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 969. Mr. RISCH submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle D of title XVI, add the following:

     SEC. 1641. MEASURES IN RESPONSE TO NONCOMPLIANCE OF RUSSIAN 
                   FEDERATION WITH OPEN SKIES TREATY.

       (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
       (1) In fiscal year 2017, the Department of Defense 
     estimated that it would spend about $44,000,000 on the costs 
     of implementation of the Open Skies Treaty. That includes 
     maintaining and operating a fleet of two Open Skies OC-135 
     aircraft with accompanying facilities, services, and sensors, 
     training and deploying Air Force flight crews, planning and 
     conducting 18 flights, including training and observation, 
     training and deploying United States observers during Open 
     Skies flights conducted by the Russian Federation over United 
     States territory, acquisition and fielding of two digital 
     visual imaging systems digital electro-optical sensors, and 
     more.
       (2) Lieutenant General Vincent Stewart, Director of the 
     Defense Intelligence Agency, stated in a hearing before the 
     Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives 
     on February 3, 2015, ``The Open Skies construct was designed 
     for a different era. I am very concerned about how it's 
     applied today.''. He stated in a hearing before the same 
     committee on March 2, 2016, that the Open Skies Treaty gives 
     the Russian Federation ``a significant advantage.''
       (3) In a letter to the Committee on Armed Services of the 
     House of Representatives in April 2015, Admiral Cecil Haney, 
     then-commander of United States Strategic Command, stated 
     that, ``The treaty has become a critical component of 
     Russia's intelligence collection capability directed at the 
     United States. . . . In addition to overflying military 
     installations, Russian Open Skies

[[Page S5228]]

     flights can overfly and collect on DoD and national security 
     or national critical infrastructure.''.
       (4) The report of the Department of State entitled ``2017 
     Report on Adherence to and Compliance with Arms Control, 
     Nonproliferation, and Disarmament Agreements and 
     Commitments'' expressed numerous concerns with the compliance 
     of the Russian Federation with the Open Skies Treaty, 
     including enforcing limits on flights over the Kaliningrad 
     Oblast, denying flights near its border with the Georgian 
     regions of South Ossetia and Abkhazia since 2010, and 
     improperly applying the concept of ``force majeure'' to 
     restrict flights over personnel movements of the Government 
     of the Russian Federation. The Russian Federation also 
     improperly required Ukraine to pay in advance for its solo 
     flights, which may provide grounds for Ukraine to make a 
     determination of material breach.
       (5) In response to a question about the participation of 
     the Russian Federation in the Open Skies Treaty before the 
     Committee on Armed Services of the Senate on June 13, 2017, 
     Secretary of Defense James Mattis stated, ``There certainly 
     appear to be violations of it.''.
       (b) List of Legal Countermeasures.--The Secretary of 
     Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State and the 
     Director of National Intelligence, shall submit to the 
     appropriate congressional committees a list of legal 
     countermeasures that--
       (1) are available to the Department of Defense;
       (2) are compliant with the Open Skies Treaty; and
       (3) could be taken in response to the noncompliance of the 
     Russian Federation with the Treaty.
       (c) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
     ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
       (A) the congressional defense committees;
       (B) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and 
     the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives; and
       (C) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and 
     the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
     of Representatives.
       (2) Open skies treaty.--The term ``Open Skies Treaty'' 
     means the Treaty on Open Skies, done at Helsinki March 24, 
     1992, and entered into force January 1, 2002.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 970. Mr. RISCH submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle D of title XVI, add the following:

     SEC. 1641. MEASURES IN RESPONSE TO NONCOMPLIANCE OF RUSSIAN 
                   FEDERATION WITH OPEN SKIES TREATY.

       (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
       (1) In fiscal year 2017, the Department of Defense 
     estimated that it would spend about $44,000,000 on the costs 
     of implementation of the Open Skies Treaty. That includes 
     maintaining and operating a fleet of two Open Skies OC-135 
     aircraft with accompanying facilities, services, and sensors, 
     training and deploying Air Force flight crews, planning and 
     conducting 18 flights, including training and observation, 
     training and deploying United States observers during Open 
     Skies flights conducted by the Russian Federation over United 
     States territory, acquisition and fielding of two digital 
     visual imaging systems digital electro-optical sensors, and 
     more.
       (2) Lieutenant General Vincent Stewart, Director of the 
     Defense Intelligence Agency, stated in a hearing before the 
     Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives 
     on February 3, 2015, ``The Open Skies construct was designed 
     for a different era. I am very concerned about how it's 
     applied today.''. He stated in a hearing before the same 
     committee on March 2, 2016, that the Open Skies Treaty gives 
     the Russian Federation ``a significant advantage.''
       (3) In a letter to the Committee on Armed Services of the 
     House of Representatives in April 2015, Admiral Cecil Haney, 
     then-commander of United States Strategic Command, stated 
     that, ``The treaty has become a critical component of 
     Russia's intelligence collection capability directed at the 
     United States. . . . In addition to overflying military 
     installations, Russian Open Skies flights can overfly and 
     collect on DoD and national security or national critical 
     infrastructure.''.
       (4) The report of the Department of State entitled ``2017 
     Report on Adherence to and Compliance with Arms Control, 
     Nonproliferation, and Disarmament Agreements and 
     Commitments'' expressed numerous concerns with the compliance 
     of the Russian Federation with the Open Skies Treaty, 
     including enforcing limits on flights over the Kaliningrad 
     Oblast, denying flights near its border with the Georgian 
     regions of South Ossetia and Abkhazia since 2010, and 
     improperly applying the concept of ``force majeure'' to 
     restrict flights over personnel movements of the Government 
     of the Russian Federation. The Russian Federation also 
     improperly required Ukraine to pay in advance for its solo 
     flights, which may provide grounds for Ukraine to make a 
     determination of material breach.
       (5) In response to a question about the participation of 
     the Russian Federation in the Open Skies Treaty before the 
     Committee on Armed Services of the Senate on June 13, 2017, 
     Secretary of Defense James Mattis stated, ``There certainly 
     appear to be violations of it.''.
       (b) List of Legal Countermeasures.--The Secretary of 
     Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State and the 
     Director of National Intelligence, shall submit to the 
     appropriate congressional committees a list of legal 
     countermeasures that--
       (1) are available to the Department of Defense;
       (2) are compliant with the Open Skies Treaty; and
       (3) could be taken in response to the noncompliance of the 
     Russian Federation with the Treaty.
       (c) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
     ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
       (A) the congressional defense committees;
       (B) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and 
     the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives; and
       (C) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and 
     the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
     of Representatives.
       (2) Open skies treaty.--The term ``Open Skies Treaty'' 
     means the Treaty on Open Skies, done at Helsinki March 24, 
     1992, and entered into force January 1, 2002.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 971. Mr. RISCH submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle D of title XVI, add the following:

     SEC. 1641. MEASURES IN RESPONSE TO NONCOMPLIANCE OF RUSSIAN 
                   FEDERATION WITH OPEN SKIES TREATY.

       (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
       (1) In fiscal year 2017, the Department of Defense 
     estimated that it would spend about $44,000,000 on the costs 
     of implementation of the Open Skies Treaty. That includes 
     maintaining and operating a fleet of two Open Skies OC-135 
     aircraft with accompanying facilities, services, and sensors, 
     training and deploying Air Force flight crews, planning and 
     conducting 18 flights, including training and observation, 
     training and deploying United States observers during Open 
     Skies flights conducted by the Russian Federation over United 
     States territory, acquisition and fielding of two digital 
     visual imaging systems digital electro-optical sensors, and 
     more.
       (2) Lieutenant General Vincent Stewart, Director of the 
     Defense Intelligence Agency, stated in a hearing before the 
     Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives 
     on February 3, 2015, ``The Open Skies construct was designed 
     for a different era. I am very concerned about how it's 
     applied today.''. He stated in a hearing before the same 
     committee on March 2, 2016, that the Open Skies Treaty gives 
     the Russian Federation ``a significant advantage.''
       (3) In a letter to the Committee on Armed Services of the 
     House of Representatives in April 2015, Admiral Cecil Haney, 
     then-commander of United States Strategic Command, stated 
     that, ``The treaty has become a critical component of 
     Russia's intelligence collection capability directed at the 
     United States. . . . In addition to overflying military 
     installations, Russian Open Skies flights can overfly and 
     collect on DoD and national security or national critical 
     infrastructure.''.
       (4) The report of the Department of State entitled ``2017 
     Report on Adherence to and Compliance with Arms Control, 
     Nonproliferation, and Disarmament Agreements and 
     Commitments'' expressed numerous concerns with the compliance 
     of the Russian Federation with the Open Skies Treaty, 
     including enforcing limits on flights over the Kaliningrad 
     Oblast, denying flights near its border with the Georgian 
     regions of South Ossetia and Abkhazia since 2010, and 
     improperly applying the concept of ``force majeure'' to 
     restrict flights over personnel movements of the Government 
     of the Russian Federation. The Russian Federation also 
     improperly required Ukraine to pay in advance for its solo 
     flights, which may provide grounds for Ukraine to make a 
     determination of material breach.
       (5) In response to a question about the participation of 
     the Russian Federation in the Open Skies Treaty before the 
     Committee on Armed Services of the Senate on June 13, 2017, 
     Secretary of Defense James Mattis stated, ``There certainly 
     appear to be violations of it.''.
       (b) List of Legal Countermeasures.--The Secretary of 
     Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State and the 
     Director of National Intelligence, shall submit to the 
     appropriate congressional committees a list of legal 
     countermeasures that--

[[Page S5229]]

       (1) are available to the Department of Defense;
       (2) are compliant with the Open Skies Treaty; and
       (3) could be taken in response to the noncompliance of the 
     Russian Federation with the Treaty.
       (c) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
     ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
       (A) the congressional defense committees;
       (B) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and 
     the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives; and
       (C) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and 
     the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
     of Representatives.
       (2) Open skies treaty.--The term ``Open Skies Treaty'' 
     means the Treaty on Open Skies, done at Helsinki March 24, 
     1992, and entered into force January 1, 2002.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 972. Mr. RISCH submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle D of title XVI, add the following:

     SEC. 1641. MEASURES IN RESPONSE TO NONCOMPLIANCE OF RUSSIAN 
                   FEDERATION WITH OPEN SKIES TREATY.

       (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
       (1) In fiscal year 2017, the Department of Defense 
     estimated that it would spend about $44,000,000 on the costs 
     of implementation of the Open Skies Treaty. That includes 
     maintaining and operating a fleet of two Open Skies OC-135 
     aircraft with accompanying facilities, services, and sensors, 
     training and deploying Air Force flight crews, planning and 
     conducting 18 flights, including training and observation, 
     training and deploying United States observers during Open 
     Skies flights conducted by the Russian Federation over United 
     States territory, acquisition and fielding of two digital 
     visual imaging systems digital electro-optical sensors, and 
     more.
       (2) Lieutenant General Vincent Stewart, Director of the 
     Defense Intelligence Agency, stated in a hearing before the 
     Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives 
     on February 3, 2015, ``The Open Skies construct was designed 
     for a different era. I am very concerned about how it's 
     applied today.''. He stated in a hearing before the same 
     committee on March 2, 2016, that the Open Skies Treaty gives 
     the Russian Federation ``a significant advantage.''
       (3) In a letter to the Committee on Armed Services of the 
     House of Representatives in April 2015, Admiral Cecil Haney, 
     then-commander of United States Strategic Command, stated 
     that, ``The treaty has become a critical component of 
     Russia's intelligence collection capability directed at the 
     United States. . . . In addition to overflying military 
     installations, Russian Open Skies flights can overfly and 
     collect on DoD and national security or national critical 
     infrastructure.''.
       (4) The report of the Department of State entitled ``2017 
     Report on Adherence to and Compliance with Arms Control, 
     Nonproliferation, and Disarmament Agreements and 
     Commitments'' expressed numerous concerns with the compliance 
     of the Russian Federation with the Open Skies Treaty, 
     including enforcing limits on flights over the Kaliningrad 
     Oblast, denying flights near its border with the Georgian 
     regions of South Ossetia and Abkhazia since 2010, and 
     improperly applying the concept of ``force majeure'' to 
     restrict flights over personnel movements of the Government 
     of the Russian Federation. The Russian Federation also 
     improperly required Ukraine to pay in advance for its solo 
     flights, which may provide grounds for Ukraine to make a 
     determination of material breach.
       (5) In response to a question about the participation of 
     the Russian Federation in the Open Skies Treaty before the 
     Committee on Armed Services of the Senate on June 13, 2017, 
     Secretary of Defense James Mattis stated, ``There certainly 
     appear to be violations of it.''.
       (b) List of Legal Countermeasures.--The Secretary of 
     Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State and the 
     Director of National Intelligence, shall submit to the 
     appropriate congressional committees a list of legal 
     countermeasures that--
       (1) are available to the Department of Defense;
       (2) are compliant with the Open Skies Treaty; and
       (3) could be taken in response to the noncompliance of the 
     Russian Federation with the Treaty.
       (c) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
     ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
       (A) the congressional defense committees;
       (B) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and 
     the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives; and
       (C) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and 
     the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
     of Representatives.
       (2) Open skies treaty.--The term ``Open Skies Treaty'' 
     means the Treaty on Open Skies, done at Helsinki March 24, 
     1992, and entered into force January 1, 2002.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 973. Mr. RISCH submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle D of title XVI, add the following:

     SEC. 1641. MEASURES IN RESPONSE TO NONCOMPLIANCE OF RUSSIAN 
                   FEDERATION WITH OPEN SKIES TREATY.

       (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
       (1) In fiscal year 2017, the Department of Defense 
     estimated that it would spend about $44,000,000 on the costs 
     of implementation of the Open Skies Treaty. That includes 
     maintaining and operating a fleet of two Open Skies OC-135 
     aircraft with accompanying facilities, services, and sensors, 
     training and deploying Air Force flight crews, planning and 
     conducting 18 flights, including training and observation, 
     training and deploying United States observers during Open 
     Skies flights conducted by the Russian Federation over United 
     States territory, acquisition and fielding of two digital 
     visual imaging systems digital electro-optical sensors, and 
     more.
       (2) Lieutenant General Vincent Stewart, Director of the 
     Defense Intelligence Agency, stated in a hearing before the 
     Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives 
     on February 3, 2015, ``The Open Skies construct was designed 
     for a different era. I am very concerned about how it's 
     applied today.''. He stated in a hearing before the same 
     committee on March 2, 2016, that the Open Skies Treaty gives 
     the Russian Federation ``a significant advantage.''
       (3) In a letter to the Committee on Armed Services of the 
     House of Representatives in April 2015, Admiral Cecil Haney, 
     then-commander of United States Strategic Command, stated 
     that, ``The treaty has become a critical component of 
     Russia's intelligence collection capability directed at the 
     United States. . . . In addition to overflying military 
     installations, Russian Open Skies flights can overfly and 
     collect on DoD and national security or national critical 
     infrastructure.''.
       (4) The report of the Department of State entitled ``2017 
     Report on Adherence to and Compliance with Arms Control, 
     Nonproliferation, and Disarmament Agreements and 
     Commitments'' expressed numerous concerns with the compliance 
     of the Russian Federation with the Open Skies Treaty, 
     including enforcing limits on flights over the Kaliningrad 
     Oblast, denying flights near its border with the Georgian 
     regions of South Ossetia and Abkhazia since 2010, and 
     improperly applying the concept of ``force majeure'' to 
     restrict flights over personnel movements of the Government 
     of the Russian Federation. The Russian Federation also 
     improperly required Ukraine to pay in advance for its solo 
     flights, which may provide grounds for Ukraine to make a 
     determination of material breach.
       (5) In response to a question about the participation of 
     the Russian Federation in the Open Skies Treaty before the 
     Committee on Armed Services of the Senate on June 13, 2017, 
     Secretary of Defense James Mattis stated, ``There certainly 
     appear to be violations of it.''.
       (b) List of Legal Countermeasures.--The Secretary of 
     Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State and the 
     Director of National Intelligence, shall submit to the 
     appropriate congressional committees a list of legal 
     countermeasures that--
       (1) are available to the Department of Defense;
       (2) are compliant with the Open Skies Treaty; and
       (3) could be taken in response to the noncompliance of the 
     Russian Federation with the Treaty.
       (c) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
     ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
       (A) the congressional defense committees;
       (B) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and 
     the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives; and
       (C) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and 
     the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
     of Representatives.
       (2) Open skies treaty.--The term ``Open Skies Treaty'' 
     means the Treaty on Open Skies, done at Helsinki March 24, 
     1992, and entered into force January 1, 2002.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 974. Mr. PORTMAN (for himself and Mr. Brown) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 2810, to 
authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and for 
defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal

[[Page S5230]]

year, and for other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of subtitle E of title V, add the following:

     SEC. __. ENROLLMENT OF CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES OF THE HOMELAND 
                   SECURITY INDUSTRY IN THE UNITED STATES AIR 
                   FORCE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY.

       (a) Enrollment Authorized.--Section 9314a of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)--
       (A) in paragraph (1)--
       (i) by inserting ``and homeland security industry 
     employees'' after ``defense industry employees'';
       (ii) by inserting ``or homeland security industry 
     employee'' after ``defense industry employee''; and
       (iii) by inserting ``or homeland security-focused'' after 
     ``defense-focused'';
       (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``125 defense industry 
     employees'' and inserting ``an aggregate of 125 defense 
     industry employees and homeland security industry 
     employees''; and
       (C) in paragraph (3), by inserting ``or homeland security 
     industry employee'' after ``defense industry employee'' each 
     place it appears;
       (2) in subsection (c), by inserting ``and homeland security 
     industry employees'' after ``defense industry employees'' 
     each place it appears;
       (3) in subsection (d)--
       (A) in paragraph (1)--
       (i) by inserting ``and homeland security industry 
     employees'' after ``defense industry employees''; and
       (ii) by inserting ``or homeland security'' after ``and 
     defense''; and
       (B) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``or the Department of 
     Homeland Security, as applicable'' after ``the Department of 
     Defense''; and
       (4) in subsection (f), by inserting ``and homeland security 
     industry employees'' after ``defense industry employees''.
       (b) Homeland Security Industry Employees.--Subsection (b) 
     of such section is amended--
       (1) by inserting after the first sentence the following new 
     sentence: ``For purposes of this section, an eligible 
     homeland security industry employee is an individual employed 
     by a private firm in one of the critical infrastructure 
     sectors identified in Presidential Policy Directive 21 
     (Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience).''; and
       (2) in the last sentence, by inserting ``or homeland 
     security industry employee'' after ``defense industry 
     employee''.
       (c) Conforming Amendments.--
       (1) Section heading amendment.--The heading of such section 
     is amended to read as follows:

     ``Sec. 9314a. United States Air Force Institute of 
       Technology: admission of defense industry civilians; 
       admission of homeland security industry civilians''.

       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of chapter 901 of such title is amended by striking 
     the item relating to section 9314a and inserting the 
     following new item:

``9314a. United States Air Force Institute of Technology: admission of 
              defense industry civilians; admission of homeland 
              security industry civilians.''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 975. Ms. STABENOW submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
by her to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal 
year 2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for 
military construction, and for defense activities of the Department of 
Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, 
and for other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

     SEC. ___. BRINGING JOBS HOME.

       (a) Tax Credit for Insourcing Expenses.--
       (1) In general.--Subpart D of part IV of subchapter A of 
     chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by 
     adding at the end the following new section:

     ``SEC. 45S. CREDIT FOR INSOURCING EXPENSES.

       ``(a) In General.--For purposes of section 38, the 
     insourcing expenses credit for any taxable year is an amount 
     equal to 20 percent of the eligible insourcing expenses of 
     the taxpayer which are taken into account in such taxable 
     year under subsection (d).
       ``(b) Eligible Insourcing Expenses.--For purposes of this 
     section--
       ``(1) In general.--The term `eligible insourcing expenses' 
     means--
       ``(A) eligible expenses paid or incurred by the taxpayer in 
     connection with the elimination of any business unit of the 
     taxpayer (or of any member of any expanded affiliated group 
     in which the taxpayer is also a member) located outside the 
     United States, and
       ``(B) eligible expenses paid or incurred by the taxpayer in 
     connection with the establishment of any business unit of the 
     taxpayer (or of any member of any expanded affiliated group 
     in which the taxpayer is also a member) located within the 
     United States,
     if such establishment constitutes the relocation of the 
     business unit so eliminated. For purposes of the preceding 
     sentence, a relocation shall not be treated as failing to 
     occur merely because such elimination occurs in a different 
     taxable year than such establishment.
       ``(2) Eligible expenses.--The term `eligible expenses' 
     means--
       ``(A) any amount for which a deduction is allowed to the 
     taxpayer under section 162, and
       ``(B) permit and license fees, lease brokerage fees, 
     equipment installation costs, and, to the extent provided by 
     the Secretary, other similar expenses.
     Such term does not include any compensation which is paid or 
     incurred in connection with severance from employment and, to 
     the extent provided by the Secretary, any similar amount.
       ``(3) Business unit.--The term `business unit' means--
       ``(A) any trade or business, and
       ``(B) any line of business, or functional unit, which is 
     part of any trade or business.
       ``(4) Expanded affiliated group.--The term `expanded 
     affiliated group' means an affiliated group as defined in 
     section 1504(a), determined without regard to section 
     1504(b)(3) and by substituting `more than 50 percent' for `at 
     least 80 percent' each place it appears in section 1504(a). A 
     partnership or any other entity (other than a corporation) 
     shall be treated as a member of an expanded affiliated group 
     if such entity is controlled (within the meaning of section 
     954(d)(3)) by members of such group (including any entity 
     treated as a member of such group by reason of this 
     paragraph).
       ``(5) Expenses must be pursuant to insourcing plan.--
     Amounts shall be taken into account under paragraph (1) only 
     to the extent that such amounts are paid or incurred pursuant 
     to a written plan to carry out the relocation described in 
     paragraph (1).
       ``(6) Operating expenses not taken into account.--Any 
     amount paid or incurred in connection with the on-going 
     operation of a business unit shall not be treated as an 
     amount paid or incurred in connection with the establishment 
     or elimination of such business unit.
       ``(c) Increased Domestic Employment Requirement.--No credit 
     shall be allowed under this section unless the number of 
     full-time equivalent employees of the taxpayer for the 
     taxable year for which the credit is claimed exceeds the 
     number of full-time equivalent employees of the taxpayer for 
     the last taxable year ending before the first taxable year in 
     which such eligible insourcing expenses were paid or 
     incurred. For purposes of this subsection, full-time 
     equivalent employees has the meaning given such term under 
     section 45R(d) (and the applicable rules of section 45R(e)). 
     All employers treated as a single employer under subsection 
     (b), (c), (m), or (o) of section 414 shall be treated as a 
     single employer for purposes of this subsection.
       ``(d) Credit Allowed Upon Completion of Insourcing Plan.--
       ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), 
     eligible insourcing expenses shall be taken into account 
     under subsection (a) in the taxable year during which the 
     plan described in subsection (b)(5) has been completed and 
     all eligible insourcing expenses pursuant to such plan have 
     been paid or incurred.
       ``(2) Election to apply employment test and claim credit in 
     first full taxable year after completion of plan.--If the 
     taxpayer elects the application of this paragraph, eligible 
     insourcing expenses shall be taken into account under 
     subsection (a) in the first taxable year after the taxable 
     year described in paragraph (1).
       ``(e) Possessions Treated as Part of the United States.--
     For purposes of this section, the term `United States' shall 
     be treated as including each possession of the United States 
     (including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the 
     Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands).
       ``(f) Regulations.--The Secretary shall prescribe such 
     regulations or other guidance as may be necessary or 
     appropriate to carry out the purposes of this section.''.
       (2) Credit to be part of general business credit.--
     Subsection (b) of section 38 of such Code is amended by 
     striking ``plus'' at the end of paragraph (35), by striking 
     the period at the end of paragraph (36) and inserting ``, 
     plus'', and by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(37) the insourcing expenses credit determined under 
     section 45S(a).''.
       (3) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections for subpart 
     D of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1 of such Code is 
     amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``Sec. 45S. Credit for insourcing expenses.''.
       (4) Effective date.--The amendments made by this subsection 
     shall apply to amounts paid or incurred after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act.
       (5) Application to united states possessions.--
       (A) Payments to possessions.--
       (i) Mirror code possessions.--The Secretary of the Treasury 
     shall make periodic payments to each possession of the United 
     States with a mirror code tax system in an amount equal to 
     the loss to that possession by reason of section 45S of the 
     Internal Revenue Code of 1986. Such amount shall be 
     determined by the Secretary of the Treasury based on 
     information provided by the government of the respective 
     possession.
       (ii) Other possessions.--The Secretary of the Treasury 
     shall make annual payments to

[[Page S5231]]

     each possession of the United States which does not have a 
     mirror code tax system in an amount estimated by the 
     Secretary of the Treasury as being equal to the aggregate 
     benefits that would have been provided to residents of such 
     possession by reason of section 45S of such Code if a mirror 
     code tax system had been in effect in such possession. The 
     preceding sentence shall not apply with respect to any 
     possession of the United States unless such possession has a 
     plan, which has been approved by the Secretary of the 
     Treasury, under which such possession will promptly 
     distribute such payment to the residents of such possession.
       (B) Coordination with credit allowed against united states 
     income taxes.--No credit shall be allowed against United 
     States income taxes under section 45S of such Code to any 
     person--
       (i) to whom a credit is allowed against taxes imposed by 
     the possession by reason of such section, or
       (ii) who is eligible for a payment under a plan described 
     in subparagraph (A)(i).
       (C) Definitions and special rules.--
       (i) Possessions of the united states.--For purposes of this 
     section, the term ``possession of the United States'' 
     includes the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the Commonwealth 
     of the Northern Mariana Islands.
       (ii) Mirror code tax system.--For purposes of this section, 
     the term ``mirror code tax system'' means, with respect to 
     any possession of the United States, the income tax system of 
     such possession if the income tax liability of the residents 
     of such possession under such system is determined by 
     reference to the income tax laws of the United States as if 
     such possession were the United States.
       (iii) Treatment of payments.--For purposes of section 
     1324(b)(2) of title 31, United States Code, the payments 
     under this subsection shall be treated in the same manner as 
     a refund due from sections referred to in such section 
     1324(b)(2).
       (b) Denial of Deduction for Outsourcing Expenses.--
       (1) In general.--Part IX of subchapter B of chapter 1 of 
     the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the 
     end the following new section:

     ``SEC. 280I. OUTSOURCING EXPENSES.

       ``(a) In General.--No deduction otherwise allowable under 
     this chapter shall be allowed for any specified outsourcing 
     expense.
       ``(b) Specified Outsourcing Expense.--For purposes of this 
     section--
       ``(1) In general.--The term `specified outsourcing expense' 
     means--
       ``(A) any eligible expense paid or incurred by the taxpayer 
     in connection with the elimination of any business unit of 
     the taxpayer (or of any member of any expanded affiliated 
     group in which the taxpayer is also a member) located within 
     the United States, and
       ``(B) any eligible expense paid or incurred by the taxpayer 
     in connection with the establishment of any business unit of 
     the taxpayer (or of any member of any expanded affiliated 
     group in which the taxpayer is also a member) located outside 
     the United States,
     if such establishment constitutes the relocation of the 
     business unit so eliminated. For purposes of the preceding 
     sentence, a relocation shall not be treated as failing to 
     occur merely because such elimination occurs in a different 
     taxable year than such establishment.
       ``(2) Application of certain definitions and rules.--
       ``(A) Definitions.--For purposes of this section, the terms 
     `eligible expenses', `business unit', and `expanded 
     affiliated group' shall have the respective meanings given 
     such terms by section 45S(b).
       ``(B) Operating expenses not taken into account.--A rule 
     similar to the rule of section 45S(b)(6) shall apply for 
     purposes of this section.
       ``(c) Special Rules.--
       ``(1) Application to deductions for depreciation and 
     amortization.--In the case of any portion of a specified 
     outsourcing expense which is not deductible in the taxable 
     year in which paid or incurred, such portion shall neither be 
     chargeable to capital account nor amortizable.
       ``(2) Possessions treated as part of the united states.--
     For purposes of this section, the term `United States' shall 
     be treated as including each possession of the United States 
     (including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the 
     Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands).
       ``(d) Regulations.--The Secretary shall prescribe such 
     regulations or other guidance as may be necessary or 
     appropriate to carry out the purposes of this section, 
     including regulations which provide (or create a rebuttable 
     presumption) that certain establishments of business units 
     outside the United States will be treated as relocations 
     (based on timing or such other factors as the Secretary may 
     provide) of business units eliminated within the United 
     States.''.
       (2) Limitation on subpart f income of controlled foreign 
     corporations determined without regard to specified 
     outsourcing expenses.--Subsection (c) of section 952 of such 
     Code is amended by adding at the end the following new 
     paragraph:
       ``(4) Earnings and profits determined without regard to 
     specified outsourcing expenses.--For purposes of this 
     subsection, earnings and profits of any controlled foreign 
     corporation shall be determined without regard to any 
     specified outsourcing expense (as defined in section 
     280I(b)).''.
       (3) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections for part IX 
     of subchapter B of chapter 1 of such Code is amended by 
     adding at the end the following new item:

``Sec. 280I. Outsourcing expenses.''.
       (4) Effective date.--The amendments made by this subsection 
     shall apply to amounts paid or incurred after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 976. Ms. HEITKAMP submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
by her to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal 
year 2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for 
military construction, and for defense activities of the Department of 
Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, 
and for other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of subtitle E of title X, add the following:

     SEC. ___. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON USE OF TEST SITES FOR RESEARCH 
                   AND DEVELOPMENT ON COUNTERING UNMANNED AIRCRAFT 
                   SYSTEMS.

       It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) the armed unmanned aircraft systems deployed by 
     adversaries for military purposes pose a threat to military 
     installations, critical infrastructure, and members of the 
     Armed Forces in conflict areas like Iraq and Syria;
       (2) the unmanned aircraft systems test sites designated by 
     the Federal Aviation Administration offer unique 
     capabilities, expertise, and airspace for research and 
     development related to unmanned aircraft systems; and
       (3) the Armed Forces should, as appropriate and to the 
     extent practicable, seek to leverage the test sites described 
     in paragraph (2), as well as existing Department of Defense 
     facilities with appropriate expertise, for research and 
     development on capabilities to counter the nefarious use of 
     unmanned aircraft systems.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 977. Mr. SCHATZ submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill S. 770, to require the Director of the National 
Institute of Standards and Technology to disseminate resources to help 
reduce small business cybersecurity risks, and for other purposes; 
which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 7, beginning on line 16, strike ``Sixty'' and all 
     that follows through line 19.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 978. Mr. McCAIN (for Mr. Rubio) submitted an amendment intended to 
be proposed by Mr. McCain to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize 
appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the 
Department of Defense, for military construction, and for defense 
activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel 
strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes; which was 
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle F of title X, add the following:

     SEC. __. REPORT ON HURRICANE DAMAGE TO DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
                   ASSETS.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     submit to the congressional defense committees a report on 
     damage to Department of Defense assets and installations from 
     hurricanes during 2017.
       (b) Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) 
     shall include the following elements:
       (1) The results of a storm damage assessment.
       (2) A description of affected military installations and 
     assets.
       (3) A request for funding to initiate the repair and 
     replacement of damaged facilities and assets, including 
     necessary upgrades to existing facilities to make them 
     compliant with current hurricane standards, and to cover any 
     unfunded requirements for military construction at affected 
     military installations.
       (4) An adaptation plan to ensure military installations 
     funded with taxpayer dollars are constructed to better 
     withstand flooding and extreme weather events.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 979. Mr. McCAIN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle G of title XII, add the following:

     SEC. ___. CLARIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO SUPPORT BORDER 
                   SECURITY OPERATIONS OF CERTAIN FOREIGN 
                   COUNTRIES.

       Paragraph (3) of section 1226(b) of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 
     129 Stat. 1056), as added by section 1294(b)(2) of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year

[[Page S5232]]

     2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2562), is amended by 
     striking ``for such fiscal year'' both places it appears.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 980. Mr. CORNYN (for himself and Mr. Inhofe) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 2810, to 
authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and for 
defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       In section 331, on page __, between lines __ and __, insert 
     the following:
       ``(7)(A) The installation commander of a military 
     installation impacted by a proposed energy project shall 
     submit to the Clearinghouse a statement of objection or non-
     objection regarding the impact of proposed project.
       ``(B) The statement shall include the following elements:
       ``(i) An analysis of the impact on pilot safety, training, 
     military operations, and readiness.
       ``(ii) A detailed description of any potential negative 
     impacts on pilot safety, training, military operations, and 
     readiness.
       ``(iii) Any additional information the installation 
     commander determines relevant for consideration in the 
     evaluation process.
       ``(iv) A statement of objection or non-objection.
       ``(C) The installation commander's recommendation shall be 
     incorporated into the Clearinghouse analysis and made a 
     matter of permanent record.
       ``(D) Any decision by the Clearinghouse that contradicts 
     the installation commander recommendation shall be 
     accompanied by a report addressing all the points made in the 
     installation commander's statement, and describe how any 
     impacts on pilot safety, training, military operations, and 
     readiness will be prevented.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 981. Mr. MORAN (for himself, Mr. Coons, Mr. Wicker, Mr. Kaine, Mr. 
Tillis, Mr. Heinrich, and Mrs. Gillibrand) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize 
appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the 
Department of Defense, for military construction, and for defense 
activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel 
strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes; which was 
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle B of title II, add the following:

     SEC. __. SUPPORT FOR NATIONAL SECURITY INNOVATION AND 
                   ENTREPRENEURIAL EDUCATION.

       (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
       (1) The ability of the Department of Defense to respond to 
     national security challenges would benefit by increased 
     workforce exposure to, and understanding of, modern problem-
     solving techniques and innovative methodologies.
       (2) Presenting national security problems to universities 
     and education centers will increase diverse stakeholder 
     participation in the rapid development of solutions to 
     national security challenges and improve Department of 
     Defense recruitment of young technologists and engineers with 
     critical skill sets, including cyber capabilities.
       (3) National security innovation and entrepreneurial 
     education would provide a unique pathway for veterans, 
     Federal employees, and military personnel to leverage their 
     training, experience, and expertise to solve emerging 
     national security challenges while learning cutting-edge 
     business innovation methodologies.
       (4) The benefits to be derived from supporting national 
     security innovation and entrepreneurial education programs 
     include--
       (A) enabling veterans and members of the Armed Forces to 
     apply their battlefield knowledge in a team environment to 
     develop innovative solutions to some of the United States' 
     most challenging national security problems;
       (B) encouraging students, university faculty, veterans, and 
     other technologists and engineers to develop new and vital 
     skill sets to solve real-world national security challenges 
     while introducing them to public service opportunities; and
       (C) providing an alternative pathway for the Department of 
     Defense to achieve critical agency objectives, such as 
     acquisition reform and the rapid deployment of new and 
     essential capabilities to America's warfighters.
       (b) Support Authorized.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense may, acting 
     through the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
     Engineering, support national security innovation and 
     entrepreneurial education programs.
       (2) Elements.--Support under paragraph (1) may include the 
     following:
       (A) Materials to recruit participants, including veterans, 
     for programs described in paragraph (1).
       (B) Model curriculum for such programs.
       (C) Training materials for such programs.
       (D) Best practices for the conduct of such programs.
       (E) Experimental learning opportunities for program 
     participants to interact with operational forces and better 
     understand national security challenges.
       (F) Exchanges and partnerships with Department of Defense 
     science and technology activities.
       (G) Activities consistent with the Proof of Concept 
     Commercialization Pilot Program established under section 
     1603 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 10 U.S.C. 2359 note).
       (c) Consultation.--In carrying out subsection (b), the 
     Secretary may consult with the heads of such Federal 
     agencies, universities, and public and private entities 
     engaged in the development of advanced technologies as the 
     Secretary determines to be appropriate.
       (d) Authorities.--The Secretary may--
       (1) develop and maintain metrics to assess national 
     security innovation and entrepreneurial education activities 
     to ensure standards for programs supported under subsection 
     (b) are consistent and being met; and
       (2) ensure that any recipient of an award under the Small 
     Business Technology Transfer program, the Small Business 
     Innovation Research program, and science and technology 
     programs of the Department of Defense has the option to 
     participate in training under a national security innovation 
     and entrepreneurial education program supported under 
     subsection (b).
       (e) Participation by Federal Employees and Members of the 
     Armed Forces.--The Secretary may encourage Federal employees 
     and members of the Armed Forces to participate in a national 
     security innovation and entrepreneurial education program 
     supported under subsection (b) in order to gain exposure to 
     modern innovation and entrepreneurial methodologies.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 982. Mr. BROWN (for himself, Mr. Murphy, Mr. Durbin, Mr. 
Blumenthal, Mr. Franken, Mrs. Murray, and Mr. Carper) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 2810, to 
authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and for 
defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle E of title X, add the following:

     SEC. __. PROHIBITION ON USE BY EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS OF 
                   REVENUES DERIVED FROM EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE 
                   FURNISHED UNDER LAWS ADMINISTERED BY SECRETARY 
                   OF DEFENSE FOR ADVERTISING, MARKETING, OR 
                   RECRUITING.

       (a) In General.--As a condition on the receipt of 
     Department of Defense educational assistance funds, an 
     institution of higher education, or other postsecondary 
     educational institution, may not use revenues derived from 
     Department of Defense educational assistance funds for 
     advertising, recruiting, or marketing activities described in 
     subsection (b).
       (b) Covered Activities.--Except as provided in subsection 
     (c), the advertising, recruiting, and marketing activities 
     subject to subsection (a) shall include the following:
       (1) Advertising and promotion activities, including paid 
     announcements in newspapers, magazines, radio, television, 
     billboards, electronic media, naming rights, or any other 
     public medium of communication, including paying for displays 
     or promotions at job fairs, military installations, or 
     college recruiting events.
       (2) Efforts to identify and attract prospective students, 
     either directly or through a contractor or other third party, 
     including contact concerning a prospective student's 
     potential enrollment or application for grant, loan, or work 
     assistance under title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     (20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq.) or participation in preadmission or 
     advising activities, including--
       (A) paying employees responsible for overseeing enrollment 
     and for contacting potential students in-person, by phone, by 
     email, or by other internet communications regarding 
     enrollment; and
       (B) soliciting an individual to provide contact information 
     to an institution of higher education, including Internet 
     websites established for such purpose and funds paid to third 
     parties for such purpose.
       (3) Such other activities as the Secretary of Defense may 
     prescribe, including paying for promotion or sponsorship of 
     education or military-related associations.
       (c) Exceptions.--Any activity that is required as a 
     condition of receipt of funds by an institution under title 
     IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070 et 
     seq.), is specifically authorized under such title, or is 
     otherwise specified by the Secretary of Education, shall not 
     be considered to be a covered activity under subsection (b).
       (d) Department of Defense Educational Assistance Funds 
     Defined.--In this section, the term ``Department of Defense 
     educational assistance funds'' means funds provided directly 
     to an institution or to a student attending such institution 
     under any of the following provisions of law:
       (1) Chapter 101, 105, 106A, 1606, 1607, or 1608 of title 
     10, United States Code.

[[Page S5233]]

       (2) Section 1784a, 2005, or 2007 of such title.
       (e) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
     construed as a limitation on the use by an institution of 
     revenues derived from sources other than Department of 
     Defense educational assistance funds. As a condition on the 
     receipt of Department of Defense educational assistance 
     funds, each institution of higher education, or other 
     postsecondary educational institution, that derives revenues 
     from Department of Defense educational assistance funds shall 
     submit to the Secretary of Defense and to Congress each year 
     a report that includes the following:
       (1) The institution's expenditures on advertising, 
     marketing, and recruiting.
       (2) A verification from an independent auditor that the 
     institution is in compliance with the requirements of this 
     subsection.
       (3) A certification from the institution that the 
     institution is in compliance with the requirements of this 
     section.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 983. Mr. BROWN (for himself, Mr. Murphy, Mr. Durbin, Mr. 
Blumenthal, Mr. Franken, Mrs. Murray, and Mr. Carper) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 2810, to 
authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and for 
defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle G of title X, add the following:

     SEC. ___. RESTRICTIONS ON SOURCES OF FUNDS FOR RECRUITING AND 
                   MARKETING ACTIVITIES.

       (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the 
     ``Protecting Financial Aid for Students and Taxpayers Act''.
       (b) Restrictions on Sources of Funds for Recruiting and 
     Marketing Activities.--Section 119 of the Higher Education 
     Opportunity Act (20 U.S.C. 1011m) is amended--
       (1) in the section heading, by inserting ``and restrictions 
     on sources of funds for recruiting and marketing activities'' 
     after ``funds'';
       (2) in subsection (d), by striking ``subsections (a) 
     through (c)'' and inserting ``subsections (a), (b), (c), and 
     (e)'';
       (3) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (f); and
       (4) by inserting after subsection (d) the following:
       ``(e) Restrictions on Sources of Funds for Recruiting and 
     Marketing Activities.--
       ``(1) In general.--An institution of higher education, or 
     other postsecondary educational institution, may not use 
     revenues derived from Federal educational assistance funds 
     for recruiting or marketing activities described in paragraph 
     (2).
       ``(2) Covered activities.--Except as provided in paragraph 
     (3), the recruiting and marketing activities subject to 
     paragraph (1) shall include the following:
       ``(A) Advertising and promotion activities, including paid 
     announcements in newspapers, magazines, radio, television, 
     billboards, electronic media, naming rights, or any other 
     public medium of communication, including paying for displays 
     or promotions at job fairs, military installations, or 
     college recruiting events.
       ``(B) Efforts to identify and attract prospective students, 
     either directly or through a contractor or other third party, 
     including contact concerning a prospective student's 
     potential enrollment or application for grant, loan, or work 
     assistance under title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     (20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq.) or participation in preadmission or 
     advising activities, including--
       ``(i) paying employees responsible for overseeing 
     enrollment and for contacting potential students in-person, 
     by phone, by email, or by other Internet communications 
     regarding enrollment; and
       ``(ii) soliciting an individual to provide contact 
     information to an institution of higher education, including 
     websites established for such purpose and funds paid to third 
     parties for such purpose.
       ``(C) Such other activities as the Secretary of Education 
     may prescribe, including paying for promotion or sponsorship 
     of education or military-related associations.
       ``(3) Exceptions.--Any activity that is required as a 
     condition of receipt of funds by an institution under title 
     IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070 et 
     seq.), is specifically authorized under such title, or is 
     otherwise specified by the Secretary of Education, shall not 
     be considered to be a covered activity under paragraph (2).
       ``(4) Federal educational assistance funds.--In this 
     subsection, the term `Federal educational assistance funds' 
     means funds provided directly to an institution or to a 
     student attending such institution under any of the following 
     provisions of law:
       ``(A) Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
     U.S.C. 1070 et seq.).
       ``(B) Chapter 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, or 35 of title 38, United 
     States Code.
       ``(C) Chapter 101, 105, 106A, 1606, 1607, or 1608 of title 
     10, United States Code.
       ``(D) Section 1784a, 2005, or 2007 of title 10, United 
     States Code.
       ``(E) Title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity 
     Act (29 U.S.C. 3111 et seq.).
       ``(F) The Adult Education and Family Literacy Act (29 
     U.S.C. 3271 et seq.).
       ``(5) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this subsection 
     shall be construed as a limitation on the use by an 
     institution of revenues derived from sources other than 
     Federal educational assistance funds.
       ``(6) Reports.--Each institution of higher education, or 
     other postsecondary educational institution, that derives 65 
     percent or more of revenues from Federal educational 
     assistance funds shall report annually to the Secretary and 
     to Congress and shall include in such report--
       ``(A) the institution's expenditures on advertising, 
     marketing, and recruiting;
       ``(B) a verification from an independent auditor that the 
     institution is in compliance with the requirements of this 
     subsection; and
       ``(C) a certification from the institution that the 
     institution is in compliance with the requirements of this 
     subsection.''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 984. Ms. WARREN (for herself and Mr. Lee) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by her to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize 
appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the 
Department of Defense, for military construction, and for defense 
activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel 
strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes; which was 
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       In section 1635, strike subsection (c) and insert the 
     following:
       (c) Report on Military and Security Ramifications of 
     Russia's Ground-launched Cruise Missile.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, with the 
     concurrence of the Secretary of State, shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees a report including the 
     following elements:
       (A) A description of the status of the Russian Federation's 
     new ground-launched cruise missile (SSC-8), its capabilities, 
     and the threat it poses to the allies and assets of the 
     United States in Europe and Asia.
       (B) An assessment of whether the United States faces 
     significant military disadvantages with the introduction of 
     the SSC-8 to the European continent.
       (C) An assessment of capability gaps that a new United 
     States ground-launched intermediate-range missile with a 
     range between 500 and 5,500 kilometers would address in 
     Europe and Asia and whether such a missile is the preferred 
     military response to Russian Federation violations of the INF 
     Treaty.
       (D) The timeline for fielding such a ground-launched 
     intermediate-range missile, including time for research, 
     development, and deployment of the system, and the total cost 
     for development and deployment of the system.
       (E) An assessment of the willingness of countries in Europe 
     or the Asia-Pacific region to complete the legal requirements 
     to host a ground-launched intermediate-range missile with a 
     range of between 500 and 5,500 kilometers for counterforce or 
     countervailing strike missions against the Russian Federation 
     and the People's Republic of China.
       (F) An assessment of the North Atlantic Council's 
     willingness to endorse development of a ground-launched 
     intermediate-range missile as part of the North Atlantic 
     Treaty Organization's collective response to the failure of 
     the Russian Federation to comply with the INF Treaty.
       (G) A determination of whether the United States 
     developing, producing, or flight-testing a ground-launched 
     intermediate-range missile would be compliant with the INF 
     Treaty.
       (2) Form.--The report required under paragraph (1) shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
     annex.
       (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--None of the funds 
     authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
     available for fiscal year 2018 for a research and development 
     program for a dual-capable road-mobile ground-launched 
     missile system with a maximum range of 5,500 kilometers may 
     be obligated or expended until the reports required by 
     subsections (b) and (c) are received by the congressional 
     defense committees.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 985. Mrs. MURRAY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
her to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of part II of subtitle C of title VI, add the 
     following:

     SEC. ___. GARNISHMENT TO SATISFY JUDGMENT RENDERED FOR 
                   PHYSICALLY, SEXUALLY, OR EMOTIONALLY ABUSING A 
                   CHILD.

       (a) Garnishment Authority.--Section 1408 of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new subsection:
       ``(l) Garnishment to Satisfy a Judgment Rendered for 
     Physically, Sexually, or Emotionally Abusing a Child.--(1) 
     Subject to paragraph (2), any payment of retired pay that 
     would otherwise be made to a member

[[Page S5234]]

     shall be paid (in whole or in part) by the Secretary 
     concerned to another person if and to the extent expressly 
     provided for in the terms of a child abuse garnishment order.
       ``(2) A court order providing for the payment of child 
     support or alimony or, with respect to a division of 
     property, specifically providing for the payment of an amount 
     of the disposable retired pay from a member to the spouse or 
     a former spouse of the member, shall be given priority over a 
     child abuse garnishment order. The total amount of the 
     disposable retired pay of a member payable under a child 
     abuse garnishment order shall not exceed 25 percent of the 
     member's disposable retired pay.
       ``(3) In this subsection, the term `court order' includes a 
     child abuse garnishment order.
       ``(4) In this subsection, the term `child abuse garnishment 
     order' means a final decree issued by a court that--
       ``(A) is issued in accordance with the laws of the 
     jurisdiction of that court; and
       ``(B) provides in the nature of garnishment for the 
     enforcement of a judgment rendered against the member for 
     physically, sexually, or emotionally abusing a child.
       ``(5) For purposes of this subsection, a judgment rendered 
     for physically, sexually, or emotionally abusing a child is 
     any legal claim perfected through a final enforceable 
     judgment, which claim is based in whole or in part upon the 
     physical, sexual, or emotional abuse of an individual under 
     18 years of age, whether or not that abuse is accompanied by 
     other actionable wrongdoing, such as sexual exploitation or 
     gross negligence.
       ``(6) If the Secretary concerned is served with more than 
     one court order with respect to the retired pay of a member, 
     the disposable retired pay of the member shall be available 
     to satisfy such court orders on a first-come, first-served 
     basis, subject to the order of precedence specified in 
     paragraph (2), with any such process being satisfied out of 
     such monies as remain after the satisfaction of all such 
     processes which have been previously served.
       ``(7) The Secretary concerned shall not be required to vary 
     normal pay and disbursement cycles for retired pay in order 
     to comply with a child abuse garnishment order.''.
       (b) Application of Amendment.--Subsection (l) of section 
     1408 of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection 
     (a), shall apply with respect to a court order received by 
     the Secretary concerned on or after the date of the enactment 
     of this Act, regardless of the date of the court order.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 986. Mr. SANDERS submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle B of title VIII, add the following:

     SEC. __. OUTSOURCING PREVENTION.

       (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the 
     ``Defending American Jobs Act''.
       (a) Eligibility for Contract Award.--The Secretary of 
     Defense may not enter into or renew a contract for the 
     procurement of property or services unless the contractor 
     certifies that, during the previous 5 years, the contractor 
     has not outsourced a domestic operation or, in the case of an 
     operation so outsourced, the contractor certifies that the 
     operation has moved back to the United States.
       (b) Annual Certification.--Beginning on the date that is 
     one year after a contractor enters into a contract described 
     under subsection (a), and annually thereafter for the 
     duration of the contract, the contractor shall certify 
     whether it has outsourced a domestic operation since entering 
     into the contract.
       (c) Outsourcing Defined.--In this section, the term 
     ``outsourcing'', with respect to a domestic operation, means 
     a plant closing or mass layoff (as described in section 2(a) 
     of the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act (29 
     U.S.C. 2101(a)) in which the employment loss (excluding any 
     part-time employees) for positions which will be moved to a 
     country outside of the United States exceeds 50 employees.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 987. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle D of title III, add the following:

     SEC. __. ARSENAL SUPPORT PROGRAM INITIATIVE.

       Section 343(a) of the Floyd D. Spence National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001 (as enacted into law 
     by Public Law 106-398; 114 Stat. 1654A-77; 20 U.S.C. 7703a), 
     as most recently amended by section 342 of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016, is further 
     amended by striking ``through 2012'' and inserting ``through 
     2022''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 988. Ms. STABENOW (for herself, Mr. Murphy, and Ms. Baldwin) 
submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by her to the bill H.R. 
2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military 
activities of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and 
for defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe 
military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other 
purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle B of title VIII, add the following:

     SEC. __. APPLICABILITY OF BUY AMERICAN REQUIREMENTS TO ITEMS 
                   USED OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES.

       Section 8302(a)(2)(A) of title 41, United States Code, is 
     amended by inserting ``needed on an urgent basis or for 
     national security reasons (as determined by the head of a 
     Federal agency)'' after ``for use outside the United 
     States''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 989. Mr. ROUNDS submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle C of title XVI, add the following:

     SEC. 1630C. CYBERSECURITY OF INDUSTRIAL CONTROL SYSTEMS.

       (a) Designation of Integrating Official.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall designate 
     one official to be responsible for all matters relating to 
     integrating cybersecurity and industrial control systems 
     within the Department of Defense. Such official shall be 
     responsible for all such matters at all levels of command, 
     from the Department to the facility using industrial control 
     systems.
       (2) Responsibilities.--The responsibilities of the official 
     designated under subsection (a) shall include the following:
       (A) Developing, implementing, and be accountable for plans, 
     programs, and policies to improve the cybersecurity of 
     industrial control systems. Such plans, programs, and 
     policies shall be applicable at all levels of command and 
     apply to both the Department and the facility using the 
     industrial control system.
       (B) Developing Department-wide certification standards for 
     integration of industrial control systems and taking into 
     consideration frameworks set forth by the National Institute 
     of Standards and Technology for the cybersecurity of such 
     systems.
       (b) Pilot Programs.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall consider 
     carrying out one or more pilot programs to assess the 
     feasibility and advisability of implementing various 
     solutions for protecting industrial control systems against 
     cyber attacks and discerning the specific criteria that a 
     solution should demonstrate in order to be certified for 
     military use.
       (2) Priority.--In carrying out a pilot program under 
     paragraph (1), the Secretary shall give priority to the 
     determination of certification criteria for military energy 
     industrial control systems.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 990. Mr. BOOZMAN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle C of title V, add the following:

     SEC. ___. REPORT ON DELEGATION OF WAIVER AUTHORITY IN 
                   CONNECTION WITH DOMICILE-TO-DUTY LIMITATIONS.

       (a) Report Required.--Not later than December 1, 2017, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
     Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a 
     report setting forth an assessment of the feasability and 
     advisability of permitting the Secretaries of the military 
     departments to delegate to commanding officers in general and 
     flag officer positions authority to waive limitations on the 
     use of passenger carriers as a means of transporting 
     Government personnel between residence and place of 
     employment under section 1344 of title 31, United States Code 
     (commonly referred to as ``Domicile-to-Duty''), for members 
     of the Armed Forces and civilian personnel of the military 
     departments who have significant responsibility for missions 
     executing or supporting round-the-clock performance of combat 
     operations or intelligence, counterintelligence, protective 
     service, or criminal law enforcement duties.
       (b) Elements.--The assessment required pursuant to 
     subsection (a) shall--
       (1) assume that any delegation of waiver authority as 
     described in that subsection

[[Page S5235]]

     shall complement, and not replace, the waiver authority of 
     the Secretaries of the military departments under section 
     1344 of title 31, United States Code; and
       (2) take into account the extent to which delegation of 
     such waiver authority would impact the safe and efficient 
     conduct of missions described in that subsection.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 991. Mr. PORTMAN (for himself and Mr. Brown) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 2810, to 
authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and for 
defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       Strike section 212 and insert the following:

     SEC. 212. CODIFICATION AND ENHANCEMENT OF AUTHORITIES TO 
                   PROVIDE FUNDS FOR DEFENSE LABORATORIES FOR 
                   RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT OF TECHNOLOGIES FOR 
                   MILITARY MISSIONS.

       (a) In General.--Chapter 139 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by inserting after section 2362 the 
     following new section:

     ``Sec. 2363. Mechanisms to provide funds for defense 
       laboratories for research and development of technologies 
       for military missions

       ``(a) Mechanisms to Provide Funds.--(1) The Secretary of 
     Defense, in consultation with the Secretaries of the military 
     departments, shall establish mechanisms under which the 
     director of a defense laboratory may use an amount of funds 
     equal to not less than two percent and not more than four 
     percent of all funds available to the defense laboratory for 
     the following purposes:
       ``(A) To fund innovative basic and applied research that is 
     conducted at the defense laboratory and supports military 
     missions.
       ``(B) To fund development programs that support the 
     transition of technologies developed by the defense 
     laboratory into operational use.
       ``(C) To fund workforce development activities that improve 
     the capacity of the defense laboratory to recruit and retain 
     personnel with necessary scientific and engineering expertise 
     that support military missions.
       ``(D) To fund the repair or minor military construction of 
     the laboratory infrastructure and equipment, in accordance 
     with subsection (b).
       ``(2) The mechanisms established under paragraph (1) shall 
     provide that funding shall be used under paragraph (1) at the 
     discretion of the director of a defense laboratory in 
     consultation with the science and technology executive of the 
     military department concerned.
       ``(3) After consultation with the science and technology 
     executive of the military department concerned, the director 
     of a defense laboratory may charge customer activities a 
     fixed percentage fee, in addition to normal costs of 
     performance, in order to obtain funds to carry out activities 
     authorized by this subsection. The fixed fee may not exceed 
     four percent of costs.
       ``(b) Availability of Funds for Infrastructure Projects.--
     Funds shall be available in accordance with subsection 
     (a)(1)(D) only if--
       ``(1) the Secretary notifies the congressional defense 
     committees of the total cost of the project before the date 
     on which the Secretary uses the mechanism under such 
     subsection for such project; and
       ``(2) the Secretary ensures that the project complies with 
     the applicable cost limitations in--
       ``(A) section 2805(d) of this title, with respect to 
     revitalization and recapitalization projects; and
       ``(B) section 2811 of this title, with respect to repair 
     projects.
       ``(c) Annual Report on Use of Authority.--Not later than 
     March 1 of each year, the Secretary of Defense shall submit 
     to the congressional defense committees a report on the use 
     of the authority under subsection (a) during the preceding 
     year.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of chapter 139 of such title is amended by 
     inserting after the item relating to section 2362 the 
     following new item:

``2363. Mechanisms to provide funds for defense laboratories for 
              research and development of technologies for military 
              missions.''.

       (c) Conforming Amendments.--(1) Section 219 of the Duncan 
     Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2009 (Public Law 110-417; 10 U.S.C. 2358 note), is hereby 
     repealed.
       (2) Section 2805(d)(1)(B) of title 10, United States Code, 
     is amended by striking ``under section 219(a) of the Duncan 
     Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2009 (Public Law 110-417; 10 U.S.C. 2358 note)'' and 
     inserting ``section 2363(a) of this title''.

     SEC. 213. ANNUAL REPORT ON UNFUNDED REQUIREMENTS FOR 
                   LABORATORY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS.

       The Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering 
     shall submit to the congressional defense committees each 
     year, at the time the budget of the President for the fiscal 
     year beginning in such year is submitted to Congress under 
     section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, a reporting 
     listing unfunded requirements on major and minor military 
     construction projects for Department of Defense science and 
     technology laboratories and facilities and test evaluation 
     facilities.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 992. Mr. SCHUMER (for Mr. Menendez) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by Mr. Schumer to the bill H.R. 2810, to 
authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and for 
defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

     SEC. __. PRIVATE RELIEF FOR THE MCALLISTER FAMILY.

       (a) In General.--Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) of 
     section 201 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
     1151), Malachy McAllister, Nicola McAllister, and Sean Ryan 
     McAllister shall each be eligible for an immigrant visa or 
     for adjustment of status to that of an alien lawfully 
     admitted for permanent residence upon filing an application 
     for an immigrant visa under section 204 of such Act (8 U.S.C. 
     1154) or for adjustment of status to lawful permanent 
     resident.
       (b) Adjustment of Status.--If Malachy McAllister, Nicola 
     McAllister, or Sean Ryan McAllister enters the United States 
     before the filing deadline described in subsection (d), he or 
     she shall be considered to have entered and remained lawfully 
     in the United States and shall, if otherwise eligible, be 
     eligible for adjustment of status under section 245 of the 
     Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1255), as of the 
     date of the enactment of this Act.
       (c) Waiver of Grounds for Removal of, or Denial of 
     Admission.--
       (1) In general.--Notwithstanding sections 212(a) and 237(a) 
     of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(a) and 
     1227(a)), Malachy McAllister, Nicola McAllister, and Sean 
     Ryan McAllister may not be removed from the United States, or 
     denied admission to the United States, by reason of any act 
     of any of such individuals that is a ground for removal or 
     denial of admission and is reflected in the records of the 
     Department of Homeland Security, or the Visa Office of the 
     Department of State, on the date of the enactment of this 
     Act.
       (2) Rescission of outstanding order of removal.--The 
     Secretary of Homeland Security shall rescind any outstanding 
     order of removal or deportation, or any finding of 
     deportability, that has been entered against Malachy 
     McAllister, Nicola McAllister, or Sean Ryan McAllister by 
     reason of any act described in paragraph (1).
       (d) Deadline for Application and Payment of Fees.--
     Subsections (a) and (b) shall not apply unless Malachy 
     McAllister, Nicola McAllister, and Sean Ryan McAllister each 
     file an application for an immigrant visa or for adjustment 
     of status, with appropriate fees, not later than 2 years 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act.
       (e) Reduction of Immigrant Visa Number.--Upon the granting 
     of an immigrant visa or permanent resident status to Malachy 
     McAllister, Nicola McAllister, and Sean Ryan McAllister, the 
     Secretary of State shall instruct the proper officer to 
     reduce by 3, during the current or next following fiscal 
     year, the total number of immigrant visas that are made 
     available to natives of the country of the aliens' birth 
     under section 202(a)(2) of the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act (8 U.S.C. 1152(a)(2)).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 993. Mr. McCAIN (for Mr. Rubio) submitted an amendment intended to 
be proposed by Mr. McCain to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize 
appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the 
Department of Defense, for military construction, and for defense 
activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel 
strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes; which was 
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title XII, add the following:

               Subtitle H--Matters Relating to Hizballah

     SEC. 1290. SHORT TITLE.

       This subtitle may be cited as the ``Hizballah International 
     Financing Prevention Amendments Act of 2017''.

 PART I--PREVENTION OF ACCESS BY HIZBALLAH TO INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL 
                         AND OTHER INSTITUTIONS

     SEC. 1291. MANDATORY SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO FUNDRAISING 
                   AND RECRUITMENT ACTIVITIES FOR HIZBALLAH.

       (a) In General.--Section 101 of the Hizballah International 
     Financing Prevention Act of 2015 (Public Law 114-102; 50 
     U.S.C. 1701 note) is amended to read as follows:

     ``SEC. 101. MANDATORY SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO FUNDRAISING 
                   AND RECRUITMENT ACTIVITIES FOR HIZBALLAH.

       ``(a) In General.--The President shall impose the sanctions 
     described in subsection (b) with respect to any foreign 
     person that the

[[Page S5236]]

     President determines knowingly assists, sponsors, or provides 
     significant financial, material, or technological support 
     for--
       ``(1) Bayt al-Mal, Jihad al-Bina, the Islamic Resistance 
     Support Association, or any successor or affiliate thereof;
       ``(2) al-Manar TV, al Nour Radio, or the Lebanese Media 
     Group, or any successor or affiliate thereof;
       ``(3) a foreign person determined by the President to be 
     engaged in fundraising or recruitment activities for 
     Hizballah; or
       ``(4) a foreign person owned or controlled by a foreign 
     person described in paragraph (1), (2), or (3).
       ``(b) Sanctions Described.--
       ``(1) In general.--The sanctions described in this 
     subsection are the following:
       ``(A) Asset blocking.--The exercise of all powers granted 
     to the President by the International Emergency Economic 
     Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (except that the 
     requirements of section 202 of such Act (50 U.S.C. 1701) 
     shall not apply) to the extent necessary to block and 
     prohibit all transactions in all property and interests in 
     property of a foreign person determined by the President to 
     be subject to subsection (a) if such property and interests 
     in property are in the United States, come within the United 
     States, or are or come within the possession or control of a 
     United States person.
       ``(B) Aliens ineligible for visas, admission, or parole.--
       ``(i) Visas, admission, or parole.--An alien who the 
     President determines is subject to subsection (a) is--

       ``(I) inadmissible to the United States;
       ``(II) ineligible to receive a visa or other documentation 
     to enter the United States; and
       ``(III) otherwise ineligible to be admitted or paroled into 
     the United States or to receive any other benefit under the 
     Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.).

       ``(ii) Current visas revoked.--

       ``(I) In general.--The issuing consular officer, the 
     Secretary of State, or the Secretary of Homeland Security 
     shall revoke any visa or other entry documentation issued to 
     an alien who the President determines is subject to 
     subsection (a), regardless of when issued.
       ``(II) Effect of revocation.--A revocation under subclause 
     (I) shall take effect immediately and shall automatically 
     cancel any other valid visa or entry documentation that is in 
     the possession of the alien.

       ``(2) Penalties.--The penalties provided for in subsections 
     (b) and (c) of section 206 of the International Emergency 
     Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) shall apply to a person 
     that violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or 
     causes a violation of regulations prescribed under paragraph 
     (1)(A) to the same extent that such penalties apply to a 
     person that commits an unlawful act described in subsection 
     (a) of such section 206.
       ``(c) Implementation.--The President may exercise all 
     authorities provided under sections 203 and 205 of the 
     International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702 
     and 1704) to carry out this section.
       ``(d) Procedures for Judicial Review of Classified 
     Information.--
       ``(1) In general.--If a finding under this section, or a 
     prohibition, condition, or penalty imposed as a result of any 
     such finding, is based on classified information (as defined 
     in section 1(a) of the Classified Information Procedures Act 
     (18 U.S.C. App.)) and a court reviews the finding or the 
     imposition of the prohibition, condition, or penalty, the 
     President may submit such information to the court ex parte 
     and in camera.
       ``(2) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this subsection 
     shall be construed to confer or imply any right to judicial 
     review of any finding under this section or any prohibition, 
     condition, or penalty imposed as a result of any such 
     finding.
       ``(e) Waiver.--
       ``(1) In general.--The President may, for periods not to 
     exceed 180 days, waive the imposition of sanctions under this 
     section if the President certifies to the appropriate 
     congressional committees that such waiver is in the national 
     security interests of the United States.
       ``(2) Consultation.--
       ``(A) Before waiver issued.--Before a waiver under 
     paragraph (1) takes effect with respect to a foreign person, 
     the President shall notify and brief the appropriate 
     congressional committees on the status of the involvement of 
     the foreign person in activities described in subsection (a).
       ``(B) After waiver issued.--Not later than 90 days after 
     the issuance of a waiver under paragraph (1) with respect to 
     a foreign person, and every 120 days thereafter while the 
     waiver remains in effect, the President shall brief the 
     appropriate congressional committees on the status of the 
     involvement of the foreign person in activities described in 
     subsection (a).
       ``(f) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
     enactment of the Hizballah International Financing Prevention 
     Amendments Act of 2017, and every 180 days thereafter, the 
     President shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
     committees a report that lists the foreign persons that the 
     President has credible evidence knowingly assists, sponsors, 
     or provides significant financial, material, or technological 
     support for the foreign persons described in paragraph (1), 
     (2), (3), or (4) of subsection (a).
       ``(g) Definitions.--In this section:
       ``(1) Admitted; alien.--The terms `admitted' and `alien' 
     have meanings given those terms in section 101 of the 
     Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101).
       ``(2) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
     `appropriate congressional committees' means--
       ``(A) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on 
     Ways and Means, the Committee on the Judiciary, and the 
     Committee on Financial Services of the House of 
     Representatives; and
       ``(B) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on 
     Finance, the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
     Affairs, and the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate.
       ``(3) Entity.--The term `entity' means a partnership, 
     association, corporation, or other organization, group, or 
     subgroup.
       ``(4) Hizballah.--The term `Hizballah' has the meaning 
     given such term in section 102(f).
       ``(5) Person.--The term `person' means an individual or 
     entity.
       ``(6) United states person.--The term `United States 
     person' means a United States citizen, permanent resident 
     alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States 
     (including foreign branches), or a person in the United 
     States.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the 
     Hizballah International Financing Prevention Act of 2015 is 
     amended by striking the item relating to section 101 and 
     inserting the following new item:

``Sec. 101. Mandatory sanctions with respect to fundraising and 
              recruitment activities for Hizballah.''.

     SEC. 1292. MODIFICATION OF REPORT WITH RESPECT TO FINANCIAL 
                   INSTITUTIONS THAT ENGAGE IN CERTAIN 
                   TRANSACTIONS.

       Subsection (d) of section 102 of the Hizballah 
     International Financing Prevention Act of 2015 (Public Law 
     114-102; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note) is amended to read as follows:
       ``(d) Report on Financial Institutions Organized Under the 
     Laws of State Sponsors of Terrorism.--
       ``(1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
     the enactment of the Hizballah International Financing 
     Prevention Amendments Act of 2017, and every 180 days 
     thereafter, the President shall submit to the appropriate 
     congressional committees a report that--
       ``(A) identifies each foreign financial institution 
     described in paragraph (2) that the President determines 
     engages in one or more activities described in subsection 
     (a)(2);
       ``(B) provides a detailed description of each such 
     activity; and
       ``(C) contains a determination with respect to each such 
     foreign financial institution that is identified under 
     subparagraph (A) as engaging in one or more activities 
     described in subsection (a)(2) as to whether such foreign 
     financial institution is in violation of Executive Order 
     13224 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note; relating to blocking property and 
     prohibiting transactions with persons who commit, threaten to 
     commit, or support terrorism) by reason of engaging in one or 
     more such activities.
       ``(2) Foreign financial institution described.--
       ``(A) In general.--A foreign financial institution 
     described in this paragraph is a foreign financial 
     institution--
       ``(i) that, wherever located, is--

       ``(I) organized under the laws of a state sponsor of 
     terrorism or any jurisdiction within a state sponsor of 
     terrorism;
       ``(II) owned or controlled by the government of a state 
     sponsor of terrorism;
       ``(III) located in the territory of a state sponsor of 
     terrorism; or
       ``(IV) owned or controlled by a foreign financial 
     institution described in subclause (I), (II), or (III); and

       ``(ii) the capitalization of which exceeds $10,000,000.
       ``(B) State sponsor of terrorism.--In this paragraph, the 
     term `state sponsor of terrorism' means a country the 
     government of which the Secretary of State has determined is 
     a government that has repeatedly provided support for acts of 
     international terrorism for purposes of--
       ``(i) section 6(j) of the Export Administration Act of 1979 
     (50 U.S.C. 4605(j)) (as continued in effect pursuant to the 
     International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 
     et seq.));
       ``(ii) section 620A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
     (22 U.S.C. 2371);
       ``(iii) section 40 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 
     U.S.C. 2780); or
       ``(iv) any other provision of law.''.

     SEC. 1293. SANCTIONS AGAINST AGENCIES AND INSTRUMENTALITIES 
                   OF FOREIGN STATES THAT SUPPORT HIZBALLAH.

       (a) In General.--Title I of the Hizballah International 
     Financing Prevention Act of 2015 (Public Law 114-102; 50 
     U.S.C. 1701 note) is amended by adding at the end the 
     following:

     ``SEC. 103. SANCTIONS AGAINST AGENCIES AND INSTRUMENTALITIES 
                   OF FOREIGN STATES THAT SUPPORT HIZBALLAH.

       ``(a) In General.--Not later than 120 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this section, and as appropriate 
     thereafter, the President shall block and prohibit all 
     transactions in all property and interests in property of any 
     agency or instrumentality of a foreign state described in 
     subsection (b) if such property and interests in property are 
     in the United States, come within the United States, or are 
     or come within the possession or control of a United States 
     person.
       ``(b) Agency or Instrumentality of a Foreign State 
     Described.--An agency or instrumentality of a foreign state 
     described in

[[Page S5237]]

     this subsection is an agency or instrumentality of a foreign 
     state that the President determines knowingly and materially 
     assists, sponsors, or provides significant financial, 
     material, or technological support for, goods or services to 
     or in support of, or arms or related material to--
       ``(1) Hizballah;
       ``(2) an entity owned or controlled by Hizballah; or
       ``(3) an entity that the President determines has acted or 
     purported to act for or on behalf of Hizballah.
       ``(c) Penalties.--The penalties provided for in subsections 
     (b) and (c) of section 206 of the International Emergency 
     Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) shall apply to a person 
     that violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or 
     causes a violation of regulations prescribed under subsection 
     (a) to the same extent that such penalties apply to a person 
     that commits an unlawful act described in subsection (a) of 
     such section 206.
       ``(d) Implementation.--The President may exercise all 
     authorities provided under sections 203 and 205 of the 
     International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702 
     and 1704) to carry out this section.
       ``(e) Procedures for Judicial Review of Classified 
     Information.--
       ``(1) In general.--If a finding under this section, or a 
     prohibition, condition, or penalty imposed as a result of any 
     such finding, is based on classified information (as defined 
     in section 1(a) of the Classified Information Procedures Act 
     (18 U.S.C. App.)) and a court reviews the finding or the 
     imposition of the prohibition, condition, or penalty, the 
     President may submit such information to the court ex parte 
     and in camera.
       ``(2) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this subsection 
     shall be construed to confer or imply any right to judicial 
     review of any finding under this section or any prohibition, 
     condition, or penalty imposed as a result of any such 
     finding.
       ``(f) Waiver.--
       ``(1) In general.--The President may, for periods not to 
     exceed 180 days, waive the imposition of sanctions under this 
     section with respect to an agency or instrumentality of a 
     foreign state if the President certifies to the appropriate 
     congressional committees that such waiver is in the national 
     security interests of the United States.
       ``(2) Consultation.--
       ``(A) Before waiver issued.--Before a waiver under 
     paragraph (1) takes effect with respect to an agency or 
     instrumentality of a foreign state, the President shall 
     notify and brief the appropriate congressional committees on 
     the status of the involvement of the agency or 
     instrumentality in activities described in subsection (b).
       ``(B) After waiver issued.--Not later than 90 days after 
     the issuance of a waiver under paragraph (1) with respect to 
     an agency or instrumentality of a foreign state, and every 
     120 days thereafter while the waiver remains in effect, the 
     President shall brief the appropriate congressional 
     committees on the status of the involvement of the agency or 
     instrumentality in activities described in subsection (b).
       ``(g) Definitions.--In this section:
       ``(1) Agency or instrumentality of a foreign state; foreign 
     state.--The terms `agency or instrumentality of a foreign 
     state' and `foreign state' have the meanings given those 
     terms in section 1603 of title 28, United States Code.
       ``(2) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
     `appropriate congressional committees' means--
       ``(A) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on 
     Financial Services, the Committee on Ways and Means, and the 
     Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives; 
     and
       ``(B) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on 
     Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, and the Committee on the 
     Judiciary of the Senate.
       ``(3) Arms or related material.--The term `arms or related 
     material' means--
       ``(A) nuclear, biological, chemical, or radiological 
     weapons or materials or components of such weapons;
       ``(B) ballistic or cruise missile weapons or materials or 
     components of such weapons;
       ``(C) destabilizing numbers and types of advanced 
     conventional weapons;
       ``(D) defense articles or defense services, as those terms 
     are defined in paragraphs (3) and (4), respectively, of 
     section 47 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2794);
       ``(E) defense information, as that term is defined in 
     section 644 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
     2403); or
       ``(F) items designated by the President for purposes of the 
     United States Munitions List under section 38(a)(1) of the 
     Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778(a)(1)).
       ``(4) Hizballah.--The term `Hizballah' has the meaning 
     given that term in section 102(f).''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the 
     Hizballah International Financing Prevention Act of 2015 is 
     amended by inserting after the item relating to section 102 
     the following new item:

``Sec. 103. Sanctions against agencies and instrumentalities of foreign 
              states that support Hizballah.''.

 PART II--NARCOTICS TRAFFICKING AND SIGNIFICANT TRANSNATIONAL CRIMINAL 
                        ACTIVITIES OF HIZBALLAH

     SEC. 1294. BLOCKING OF PROPERTY OF HIZBALLAH.

       (a) In General.--Section 201 of the Hizballah International 
     Financing Prevention Act of 2015 (Public Law 114-102; 50 
     U.S.C. 1701 note) is amended to read as follows:

     ``SEC. 201. BLOCKING OF PROPERTY OF HIZBALLAH.

       ``(a) Findings.--Congress finds that Hizballah conducts 
     narcotics trafficking and significant transnational criminal 
     activities.
       ``(b) Blocking of Property.--Not later than 120 days after 
     the date of the enactment of the Hizballah International 
     Financing Prevention Amendments Act of 2017, and as 
     appropriate thereafter, the President shall block and 
     prohibit all transactions in all property and interests in 
     property of Hizballah if such property and interests in 
     property are in the United States, come within the United 
     States, or are or come within the possession or control of a 
     United States person.
       ``(c) Penalties.--The penalties provided for in subsections 
     (b) and (c) of section 206 of the International Emergency 
     Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) shall apply to a person 
     that violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or 
     causes a violation of regulations prescribed under subsection 
     (b) to the same extent that such penalties apply to a person 
     that commits an unlawful act described in subsection (a) of 
     such section 206.
       ``(d) Implementation.--The President may exercise all 
     authorities provided under sections 203 and 205 of the 
     International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702 
     and 1704) to carry out this section.
       ``(e) Procedures for Judicial Review of Classified 
     Information.--
       ``(1) In general.--If a finding under this section, or a 
     prohibition, condition, or penalty imposed as a result of any 
     such finding, is based on classified information (as defined 
     in section 1(a) of the Classified Information Procedures Act 
     (18 U.S.C. App.)) and a court reviews the finding or the 
     imposition of the prohibition, condition, or penalty, the 
     President may submit such information to the court ex parte 
     and in camera.
       ``(2) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this subsection 
     shall be construed to confer or imply any right to judicial 
     review of any finding under this section or any prohibition, 
     condition, or penalty imposed as a result of any such 
     finding.
       ``(f) Waiver.--The President may, for periods not to exceed 
     180 days, waive the imposition of sanctions under this 
     section if the President certifies to the appropriate 
     congressional committees that such waiver is in the national 
     security interests of the United States.
       ``(g) Definition.--In this section, the term `Hizballah' 
     has the meaning given that term in section 102(f).''.
       (b) Clerical Amendments.--The table of contents for the 
     Hizballah International Financing Prevention Act of 2015 is 
     amended--
       (1) by striking the item relating to title II and inserting 
     the following:

   ``TITLE II--IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO HIZBALLAH AND 
REPORTS RELATING TO NARCOTICS TRAFFICKING AND SIGNIFICANT TRANSNATIONAL 
                CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES OF HIZBALLAH.''; and

       (2) by striking the item relating to section 201 and 
     inserting the following:

``Sec. 201. Blocking of property of Hizballah.''.

     SEC. 1295. REPORT ON RACKETEERING ACTIVITIES ENGAGED IN BY 
                   HIZBALLAH.

       (a) In General.--Section 202 of the Hizballah International 
     Financing Prevention Act of 2015 (Public Law 114-102; 50 
     U.S.C. 1701 note) is amended to read as follows:

     ``SEC. 202. REPORT ON RACKETEERING ACTIVITIES ENGAGED IN BY 
                   HIZBALLAH.

       ``(a) In General.--Not later than 120 days after the date 
     of the enactment of the Hizballah International Financing 
     Prevention Amendments Act of 2017, and annually thereafter 
     for the following 5 years, the President shall submit to the 
     appropriate congressional committees a report on the 
     following:
       ``(1) Activities that Hizballah, and agents and affiliates 
     of Hizballah, have engaged in that are racketeering 
     activities.
       ``(2) The extent to which Hizballah, and agents and 
     affiliates of Hizballah, engage in a pattern of such 
     racketeering activities.
       ``(b) Form of Report.--Each report required under 
     subsection (a) shall be submitted in an unclassified form but 
     may contain a classified annex.
       ``(c) Definitions.--In this section:
       ``(1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
     `appropriate congressional committees' means--
       ``(A) the Committee on the Judiciary, the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on Financial Services of 
     the House of Representatives; and
       ``(B) the Committee on the Judiciary, the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
     Urban Affairs of the Senate.
       ``(2) Hizballah.--The term `Hizballah' has the meaning 
     given that term in section 102(f).
       ``(3) Racketeering activity.--The term `racketeering 
     activity' has the meaning given that term in section 1961(1) 
     of title 18, United States Code.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the 
     Hizballah International Financing Prevention Act of 2015 is 
     amended by striking the item relating to section 202 and 
     inserting the following:

``Sec. 202. Report on racketeering activities engaged in by 
              Hizballah.''.

[[Page S5238]]

  


     SEC. 1296. MODIFICATION OF REPORT ON ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN 
                   GOVERNMENTS TO DISRUPT GLOBAL LOGISTICS 
                   NETWORKS AND FUNDRAISING, FINANCING, AND MONEY 
                   LAUNDERING ACTIVITIES OF HIZBALLAH.

       (a) In General.--Section 204 of the Hizballah International 
     Financing Prevention Act of 2015 (Public Law 114-102; 50 
     U.S.C. 1701 note) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)(1)--
       (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking 
     ``this Act'' and inserting ``the Hizballah International 
     Financing Prevention Amendments Act of 2017, and annually 
     thereafter for the following 5 years'';
       (B) in subparagraph (D)(ii)(II), by striking ``and'' at the 
     end;
       (C) in subparagraph (E), by striking ``and free-trade 
     zones.'' and inserting ``free-trade zones, business 
     partnerships and joint ventures, and other investments in 
     small and medium-sized enterprises;''; and
       (D) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(F) a list of provinces, municipalities, and local 
     governments outside of Lebanon that expressly consent to, or 
     with knowledge allow, tolerate, or disregard the use of their 
     territory by Hizballah to carry out terrorist activities, 
     including training, financing, and recruitment;
       ``(G) a description of the total aggregate revenues and 
     remittances that Hizballah receives from the global logistics 
     networks of Hizballah, including--
       ``(i) a list of Hizballah's sources of revenue, including 
     sources of revenue based on illicit activity, revenues from 
     Iran, charities, and other business activities; and
       ``(ii) a list of Hizballah's expenditures, including 
     expenditures for ongoing military operations, social 
     networks, and external operations; and
       ``(H) a survey of national and transnational legal measures 
     available to target Hizballah's financial networks.'';
       (2) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as subsections 
     (c) and (d), respectively;
       (3) by inserting after subsection (a) the following:
       ``(b) Enhanced Due Diligence.--
       ``(1) In general.--The President shall prescribe, as 
     necessary, enhanced due diligence policies, procedures, and 
     controls for United States financial institutions, and 
     foreign financial institutions maintaining correspondent 
     accounts or payable-through accounts with United States 
     financial institutions, that provide significant financial 
     services for persons and entities operating in a jurisdiction 
     included in the list required under subsection (a)(1)(F) if 
     the President certifies and reports to the appropriate 
     congressional committees that it is in the national security 
     interest of the United States to do so.
       ``(2) Definitions.--In this subsection, the terms 
     `correspondent account' and `payable-through account' have 
     the meanings given those terms in section 5318A of title 31, 
     United States Code.''; and
       (4) in subsection (c), as redesignated by paragraph (2) by 
     adding before the period at the end the following: ``and on 
     any requirements for enhanced due diligence prescribed under 
     subsection (b)''.
       (b) Report on Estimated Net Worth of Senior Hizballah 
     Members.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, and not less frequently than 
     annually thereafter for the following 2 years, the Secretary 
     of the Treasury shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
     committees a report that contains--
       (A) the estimated total net worth of each individual 
     described in paragraph (2); and
       (B) a description of how funds of each individual described 
     in paragraph (2) were acquired, and how such funds have been 
     used or employed.
       (2) Individuals described.--The individuals described in 
     this paragraph are the following:
       (A) The Secretary General of Hizballah.
       (B) Members of the Hizballah Politburo.
       (C) Any other individual that the President determines is a 
     senior foreign political figure of Hizballah.
       (3) Form of report; public availability.--
       (A) Form.--The report required under paragraph (1) shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form but may contain a classified 
     annex.
       (B) Public availability.--The unclassified portion of the 
     report required under paragraph (1) shall be made available 
     to the public and posted on the website of the Department of 
     the Treasury in precompressed, easily downloadable versions 
     that are made available in all appropriate formats.
       (4) Sources of information.--In preparing the report 
     required under paragraph (1), the Secretary of the Treasury 
     may use any credible publication, database, or web-based 
     resource, and any credible information compiled by any 
     government agency, nongovernmental organization, or other 
     entity provided to or made available to the Secretary.
       (5) Definitions.--In this subsection:
       (A) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
     ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
       (i) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on 
     Financial Services of the House of Representatives; and
       (ii) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee 
     on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate.
       (B) Funds.--The term ``funds'' means--
       (i) cash;
       (ii) equity;
       (iii) any other intangible asset the value of which is 
     derived from a contractual claim, including bank deposits, 
     bonds, stocks, a security (as defined in section 2(a) of the 
     Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77b(a))), or a security or 
     an equity security (as those terms are defined in section 
     3(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 
     78c(a))); and
       (iv) anything else of value that the Secretary of the 
     Treasury determines to be appropriate.
       (C) Senior foreign political figure.--The term ``senior 
     foreign political figure'' has the meaning given that term in 
     section 1010.605 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations (or 
     any successor regulation).

     SEC. 1297. REPORT ON COMBATING THE ILLICIT TOBACCO 
                   TRAFFICKING NETWORKS USED BY HIZBALLAH AND 
                   OTHER FOREIGN TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to the 
     appropriate congressional committees a report on combating 
     the illicit tobacco trafficking networks used by Hizballah 
     and other foreign terrorist organizations to finance their 
     operations, as described in the report submitted to Congress 
     in December 2015 by the Department of State, the Department 
     of Justice, the Department of the Treasury, the Department of 
     Homeland Security, and the Department of Health and Human 
     Services entitled, ``The Global Illicit Trade in Tobacco: A 
     Threat to National Security.''.
       (b) Matters To Be Addressed.--The report required by 
     subsection (a) shall include the following:
       (1) A description of the steps to be taken by Federal 
     agencies to combat the illicit tobacco trafficking networks 
     used by Hizballah, other foreign terrorist organizations, and 
     other illicit actors.
       (2) A description of the steps to be taken to engage State 
     and local law enforcement authorities in efforts to combat 
     illicit tobacco trafficking networks operating within the 
     United States.
       (3) A description of the steps to be taken to engage 
     foreign government law enforcement and intelligence 
     authorities in efforts to combat illicit tobacco trafficking 
     networks operating outside the United States.
       (4) Recommendations for legislative or administrative 
     action needed to address the threat of illicit tobacco 
     trafficking networks.
       (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (1) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on 
     Armed Services, the Committee on Homeland Security, the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, the Committee on Financial 
     Services, and the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of 
     Representatives; and
       (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on 
     Armed Services, the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs, the Committee on the Judiciary, the 
     Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, and the 
     Committee on Finance of the Senate.

                      PART III--GENERAL PROVISIONS

     SEC. 1298. REGULATORY AUTHORITY.

       (a) In General.--The President shall, not later than 180 
     days after the date of the enactment of this Act, prescribe 
     regulations as necessary for the implementation of this 
     subtitle and the amendments made by this subtitle.
       (b) Notification to Congress.--Not later than 10 days 
     before the prescription of regulations under subsection (a), 
     the President shall notify the appropriate congressional 
     committees regarding the proposed regulations and the 
     provisions of this subtitle and the amendments made by this 
     subtitle that the regulations are implementing.
       (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (1) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on 
     Financial Services of the House of Representatives; and
       (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on 
     Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate.

     SEC. 1299. EXCEPTIONS.

       This subtitle and the amendments made by this subtitle 
     shall not apply to the following:
       (1) Any authorized intelligence, law enforcement, or 
     national security activities of the United States.
       (2) Any transaction necessary to comply with United States 
     obligations under--
       (A) the Agreement between the United Nations and the United 
     States of America regarding the Headquarters of the United 
     Nations, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and entered 
     into force November 21, 1947;
       (B) the Convention on Consular Relations, done at Vienna 
     April 24, 1963, and entered into force March 19, 1967; or
       (C) any other international treaty.

     SEC. 1299A. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.

       Nothing in this subtitle or an amendment made by this 
     subtitle shall be construed to limit the authority of the 
     President under the International Emergency Economic Powers 
     Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) or any other provision of law.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 994. Mr. JOHNSON submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department

[[Page S5239]]

of Defense, for military construction, and for defense activities of 
the Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for 
such fiscal year, and for other purposes; which was ordered to lie on 
the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title XII, add the following:

     SEC. __. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING THE INTERNATIONAL 
                   MILITARY EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROGRAM.

       It is the sense of Congress that the International Military 
     Education and Training program--
       (1) improves the professionalism, capabilities, and 
     interoperability of United States military partners for our 
     mutual benefit;
       (2) strengthens the personal relationships between members 
     of the United States Armed Forces and their foreign 
     counterparts;
       (3) supports regional stability and democracy promotion; 
     and
       (4) plays a vital role in United States national security 
     and foreign policy.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 995. Ms. CANTWELL (for herself and Mrs. Murray) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by her to the bill H.R. 2810, to 
authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and for 
defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle B of title XXXI, add the following:

     SEC. 3116. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION OF ADVISORY BOARD ON 
                   TOXIC SUBSTANCES AND WORKER HEALTH.

       Section 3687(i) of the Energy Employees Occupational 
     Illness Compensation Program Act of 2000 (42 U.S.C. 7385s-
     16(i)) is amended by striking ``5 years'' and inserting ``10 
     years''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 996. Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Ms. Harris, Mr. Bennet, Mr. Booker, 
Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Merkley, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. Warner, 
and Ms. Duckworth) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle C of title V, add the following:

     SEC. ___. MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES WHO ENLIST UNDER 
                   AUTHORITY FOR ENLISTMENT VITAL TO THE NATIONAL 
                   INTEREST.

       (a) Retention and Status.--Each member of the Armed Forces 
     who accesses into the Armed Forces under section 504(b)(2) of 
     title 10, United States Code--
       (1) shall, to the extent practicable, remain a member of 
     the Armed Forces until the Secretary concerned is able to 
     determine the suitability of such member for retention in the 
     Armed Forces; and
       (2) may not be separated from the Armed Forces before 
     completion of the background checks and security screenings 
     required to certify the member for retention in the Armed 
     Forces, except as follows:
       (A) Upon a sentence of court-martial pursuant to chapter 47 
     of title 10, United States Code (the Uniform Code of Military 
     Justice), providing for separation of the member.
       (B) Upon the discovery of current or prior disqualifying 
     actions not related to the member's status under the 
     immigration laws that require the separation of the member.
       (b) Immigration Status of Alien Members.--
       (1) In general.--The protections and conditions specified 
     in paragraph (3) shall apply to an individual described in 
     paragraph (2) during the period--
       (A) that begins on the date on which the individual enlists 
     in the Armed Forces under the Delayed Entry Program provided 
     for in section 513 of title 10, United States Code; and
       (B) that ends on either--
       (i) the date on which the member is enlisted in a regular 
     component of the Armed Forces; or
       (ii) the date on which the member is determined by the 
     Secretary concerned to be not suitable for retention in the 
     Armed Forces.
       (2) Covered individuals.--An individual described in this 
     paragraph is an alien who enlists in the Armed Forces under 
     section 513(a) of title 10, United States Code, pursuant to a 
     determination provided for in section 504(b)(2) of such 
     title.
       (3) Protections and conditions.--The protections and 
     conditions specified in this paragraph with respect to an 
     individual are the following:
       (A) That the individual may not be removed from the United 
     States.
       (B) That the individual shall be permitted to depart and 
     reenter the United States.
       (C) That the individual shall be deemed to be lawfully 
     present and authorized for employment as of the date of 
     accession into the Armed Forces.
       (c) Delayed Entry Program.--
       (1) In general.--Section 513(b) of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended--
       (A) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3);
       (B) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
     paragraph (2):
       ``(2) A person enlisted under subsection (a) who accesses 
     into the armed forces pursuant to section 504(b)(2) of this 
     title shall not be subject to the provisions of paragraph 
     (1), but shall be enlisted in a regular component of an armed 
     force as soon as practicable after enlistment.''; and
       (C) in paragraph (3), as redesignated by subparagraph (A), 
     by inserting ``or (2)'' after ``paragraph (1)''.
       (2) Effective date.--The amendments made by paragraph (1) 
     shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, 
     and shall apply to persons described by paragraph (2) of 
     section 513(b) of title 10, United States Code (as so 
     amended), who are enlisted in the Armed Forces as of the date 
     of the enactment of this Act.
       (3) Retroactive applicability.--If a person enlisted in the 
     Armed Forces under section 513(a) of title 10, United States 
     Code, pursuant to a determination provided for in section 
     504(b)(2) of such title and was separated from the Armed 
     Forces pursuant to the operation of section 513(b) of such 
     title before the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
     person shall, at the election of the person, be permitted to 
     reenlist in the Armed Forces under section 513(a) of such 
     title after that date (and be subject to paragraph (2) of 
     section 513(b) of such title (as amended by paragraph (1) of 
     this subsection) if the Secretary concerned determines that 
     the individual remains eligible for enlistment in the Armed 
     Force as of the date of reenlistment.
       (d) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) The term ``Secretary concerned'' has the meaning given 
     that term in section 101(a)(9) of title 10, United States 
     Code.
       (2) The terms ``alien'' and ``immigration laws'' have the 
     meaning given such terms in section 101(a) of the Immigration 
     and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 997. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of part I of subtitle F of title V, add the 
     following:

     SEC. __. EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES FOR MILITARY CHILDREN IN 
                   SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, ENGINEERING, AND 
                   MATHEMATICS.

       (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
       (1) The United States military is keenly aware of the need 
     to support the families of those who serve our country.
       (2) Military children face unique challenges in educational 
     achievement due to frequent changes of station by, 
     deployments by, and even injuries to their parents.
       (3) Investing in quality education opportunities for all 
     military children from cradle to career ensures parents are 
     able to stay focused on the mission, and children are able to 
     benefit from consistent relationships with caring teachers 
     who support their early learning so they can be ready to 
     excel in school.
       (4) Research shows that early math is at least as 
     predictive of later school success as early literacy.
       (5) Investing in early learning for military children is an 
     important element in a comprehensive strategy for ensuring a 
     smart, skilled, and committed future national security 
     workforce.
       (6) To strengthen the global standing and military might of 
     the United States, technology, and innovation, the Nation 
     must continuously look for ways to strengthen early education 
     of children in science, technology, engineering, and 
     mathematics (STEM).
       (b) Guidance.--Not later than one year after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     issue guidance to the Armed Forces in order to ensure the 
     following:
       (1) The placement of a priority on supporting early 
     learning in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics 
     for children, including those at Department of Defense 
     schools and schools serving large military child populations.
       (2) Support for efforts to ensure that training and 
     curriculum specialists, teachers and other caregivers, and 
     staff serving military children have the training and skills 
     necessary to implement instruction in science, technology, 
     engineering, and mathematics that provides the necessary 
     foundation for future learning and educational achievement in 
     such areas.
       (c) Report.--Not later than two years after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees a report setting forth the 
     following:
       (1) A description and assessment of the progress made in 
     improving educational opportunities and achievement for 
     military children in science, technology, engineering, and 
     mathematics.

[[Page S5240]]

       (2) A description and assessment of efforts to implement 
     the guidance issued under subsection (b).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 998. Mr. PORTMAN (for himself and Mr. Brown) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 2810, to 
authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and for 
defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle G of title X, add the following:

     SEC. 1088. LOCATION OF THE PRINCIPAL OFFICE OF THE AVIATION 
                   HALL OF FAME.

       Section 23107 of title 36, United States Code, is amended 
     by striking ``Dayton,'' and all that follows through 
     ``trustees.'' and inserting ``Ohio.''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 999. Mr. TOOMEY (for himself and Mr. Casey) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize 
appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the 
Department of Defense, for military construction, and for defense 
activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel 
strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes; which was 
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       After subsection (a) of section 343, insert the following:
       (b) Exposure Assessment.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of Health and Human 
     Services, acting through the Centers for Disease Control and 
     Prevention and the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease 
     Registry and in consultation with the Department of Defense, 
     shall conduct an exposure assessment of no less than 8 
     current or former domestic military installations known to 
     have per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) contamination 
     in drinking water, ground water, and any other sources of 
     water and relevant exposure vectors.
       (2) Contents.--The exposure assessment required under this 
     subsection shall--
       (A) include--
       (i) for each military installation covered under the 
     exposure assessment, a statistical sample to be determined by 
     the Secretary of Health and Human Services in consultation 
     with the relevant State health departments; and
       (ii) bio-monitoring for assessing the contamination 
     described in paragraph (1); and
       (B) produce findings, which shall be--
       (i) used to help design the study described in subsection 
     (a)(1); and
       (ii) released to the appropriate congressional committees 
     not later than 1 year after the conclusion of such exposure 
     assessment.
       (3) Timing.--The exposure assessment required under this 
     subsection shall--
       (A) begin not later than 180 days after the date of 
     enactment of this Act; and
       (B) conclude not later than 2 years after such date of 
     enactment.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1000. Mr. McCONNELL submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
by him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal 
year 2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for 
military construction, and for defense activities of the Department of 
Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, 
and for other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of subtitle G of title V, add the following:

     SEC. __. AUTHORIZATION FOR AWARD OF THE MEDAL OF HONOR TO 
                   GARLIN M. CONNER FOR ACTS OF VALOR DURING WORLD 
                   WAR II.

       (a) Waiver of Time Limitations.--Notwithstanding the time 
     limitations specified in section 3744 of title 10, United 
     States Code, or any other time limitation with respect to the 
     awarding of certain medals to persons who served in the Armed 
     Forces, the President may award the Medal of Honor under 
     section 3741 of such title to Garlin M. Conner for the acts 
     of valor during World War II described in subsection (b).
       (b) Acts of Valor Described.--The acts of valor referred to 
     in subsection (a) are the actions of Garlin M. Conner during 
     combat on January 24, 1945, as a member of the United States 
     Army in the grade of First Lieutenant in France while serving 
     with Company K, 3d Battalion, 7th Infantry Regiment, 3d 
     Infantry Division, for which he was previously awarded the 
     Distinguished Service Cross.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1001. Mr. ROUNDS submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle C of title XVI, add the following:

     SEC. 1630C. DESIGNATION OF OFFICIAL FOR MATTERS RELATING TO 
                   INTEGRATING CYBERSECURITY AND INDUSTRIAL 
                   CONTROL SYSTEMS WITHIN THE DEPARTMENT OF 
                   DEFENSE.

       (a) Designation of Integrating Official.--Not later than 
     180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall designate one official to be 
     responsible for all matters relating to integrating 
     cybersecurity and industrial control systems within the 
     Department of Defense.
       (b) Responsibilities.--The official designated pursuant to 
     subsection (a) shall be responsible for all matters described 
     in such subsection at all levels of command, from the 
     Department to the facility using industrial control systems, 
     including developing Department-wide certification standards 
     for integration of industrial control systems and taking into 
     consideration frameworks set forth by the National Institute 
     of Standards and Technology for the cybersecurity of such 
     systems.

                          ____________________



