

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 207 (Tuesday, December 19, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 207 (Tuesday, December 19, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S8074]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        JOBS FOR OUR HEROES BILL

  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, the House will pass a bill today called 
the Jobs for Our Heroes Act, which I hope will be quickly signed into 
law by the President.
  This bill streamlines a process by which Active-Duty military, 
reservists, and veterans can apply for commercial driver's licenses. As 
the Presiding Officer knows, and as people may know generally, there is 
a shortage of people who can get a commercial driver's license and fill 
these well-paying jobs.
  This bill will also allow States to permanently waive license 
requirements for current servicemembers and National Guardsmen if they 
have military experience in driving comparable vehicles. That way, 
members of the military will not have to go through the same old 
rigmarole twice, wherein they get trained in the military, then get 
out, and the civilian world ignores the fact that they had been trained 
and had gotten qualified in the military. This bill fixes that.
  I am honored to have a broad range of bipartisan support for this 
legislation. One would hope something like this would. I thank 
Congressman Rob Woodall, who played a key role in helping to get this 
bill through the House.
  I hope, with this bill being signed into law, more members of our 
military will be able to utilize the skills they acquired while they 
were in the military to be able to qualify for well-paying jobs in our 
communities. We continue to use our best efforts to keep faith with our 
veterans who have done so much for all of us.

                          ____________________



