

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 148 (Wednesday, September 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 148 (Wednesday, September 13, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S5481-S5483]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 266

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 266, a bill to award the 
Congressional Gold Medal to Anwar Sadat in recognition of his heroic 
achievements and courageous contributions to peace in the Middle East.


                                 S. 324

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 324, a bill to amend 
title 38, United States Code, to improve the provision of adult day 
health care services for veterans.


                                 S. 479

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Alaska (Ms. 
Murkowski) was added as a cosponsor of S. 479, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to waive coinsurance under Medicare 
for colorectal cancer screening tests, regardless of whether 
therapeutic intervention is required during the screening.


                                 S. 693

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the names of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Mr. Franken) and the Senator from Nebraska (Mrs. Fischer) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 693, a bill to amend the Public Health 
Service Act to increase the number of permanent faculty in palliative 
care at accredited allopathic and osteopathic medical schools, nursing 
schools, social work schools, and other programs, including physician 
assistant education programs, to promote education and research in 
palliative care and hospice, and to support the development of faculty 
careers in academic palliative medicine.


                                S. 1002

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the names of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Toomey) and the Senator from West Virginia (Mrs. 
Capito) were added as cosponsors of S. 1002, a bill to enhance the 
ability of community financial institutions to foster economic growth 
and serve their communities, boost small businesses, increase 
individual savings, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1018

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1018, a bill to provide 
humanitarian assistance for the Venezuelan people, to defend democratic 
governance and combat widespread public corruption in Venezuela, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 1034

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1034, a 
bill to improve agricultural job opportunities, benefits, and security 
for aliens in the United States, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1042

  At the request of Mr. Bennet, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1042, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code to exclude Segal Americorps Education 
Awards and related awards from income.


                                S. 1465

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Lee) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1465, a bill to terminate the 
prohibitions on the exportation and importation of natural gas, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1500

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1500, a bill to 
amend the Federal Deposit Insurance Act to ensure that the reciprocal 
deposits of an insured depository institution are not considered to be 
funds obtained by or through a deposit broker, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1505

  At the request of Mr. Lee, the name of the Senator from Kentucky (Mr. 
Paul) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1505, a bill to provide that 
silencers be treated the same as firearms accessories.


                                S. 1520

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1520, a bill to expand 
recreational fishing opportunities through enhanced marine fishery 
conservation and management, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1589

  At the request of Mr. Roberts, the name of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mrs. Fischer) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1589, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and the Small Business Act to expand the 
availability of employee stock ownership plans in S corporations, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 1595

  At the request of Mr. Kaine, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1595, a bill to amend the Hizballah International Financing Prevention 
Act of 2015 to impose additional sanctions with respect to Hizballah, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 1697

  At the request of Mr. Graham, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Kaine) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1697, a bill to condition 
assistance to the West Bank and Gaza on steps by the Palestinian 
Authority to end violence and terrorism against Israeli citizens and 
United States Citizens.


                                S. 1706

  At the request of Mr. Peters, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1706, a bill to prevent human health threats posed by the consumption 
of equines raised in the United States.


                                S. 1754

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1754, a bill to 
reauthorize section 340H of the Public Health Service Act to continue 
to encourage the expansion, maintenance, and establishment of approved 
graduate medical residency programs at qualified teaching health 
centers, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1801

  At the request of Mr. Kaine, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1801, a bill to amend the 
Higher Education Act of 1965 to require institutions of higher 
education to have an independent advocate for campus sexual assault 
prevention and response.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 329

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the names of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) and the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Merkley) were added as 
cosponsors of amendment No. 329 intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, 
to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military 
activities of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and 
for defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe 
military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other 
purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 426

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 426 intended to 
be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.

[[Page S5482]]

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, her name was added as a cosponsor of 
amendment No. 426 intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, supra.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 490

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cruz) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 490 intended to be 
proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 
for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 519

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 519 intended to 
be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 533

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren), the Senator from New Mexico (Mr. Udall) and 
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Booker) were added as cosponsors of 
amendment No. 533 intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize 
appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the 
Department of Defense, for military construction, and for defense 
activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel 
strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 534

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren), the Senator from New Mexico (Mr. Udall) and 
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Booker) were added as cosponsors of 
amendment No. 534 intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize 
appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the 
Department of Defense, for military construction, and for defense 
activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel 
strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 563

  At the request of Mr. Udall, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 563 
intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for 
fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, 
for military construction, and for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 592

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the names of the Senator from 
Washington (Ms. Cantwell), the Senator from North Dakota (Ms. 
Heitkamp), the Senator from Nevada (Ms. Cortez Masto), the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy), the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Carper) and 
the Senator from Indiana (Mr. Donnelly) were added as cosponsors of 
amendment No. 592 intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize 
appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the 
Department of Defense, for military construction, and for defense 
activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel 
strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 607

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 
607 intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the Department of 
Defense, for military construction, and for defense activities of the 
Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for 
such fiscal year, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 636

  At the request of Mr. Perdue, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cornyn) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 636 intended to be 
proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 
for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 699

  At the request of Mr. Murphy, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 699 intended 
to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal 
year 2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for 
military construction, and for defense activities of the Department of 
Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, 
and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 717

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cornyn) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 717 intended to be 
proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 
for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 739

  At the request of Mr. Murphy, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 739 intended 
to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal 
year 2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for 
military construction, and for defense activities of the Department of 
Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, 
and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 768

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the names of the Senator from Ohio 
(Mr. Brown), the Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) and the Senator 
from Michigan (Ms. Stabenow) were added as cosponsors of amendment No. 
768 intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the Department of 
Defense, for military construction, and for defense activities of the 
Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for 
such fiscal year, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 770

  At the request of Mr. Murphy, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 770 intended to be 
proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 
for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 841

  At the request of Ms. Hirono, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cornyn) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 841 intended to be 
proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 
for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 846

  At the request of Mr. Udall, the name of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Heinrich) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 846 intended 
to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal 
year 2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for 
military construction, and for defense activities of the Department of 
Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, 
and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 855

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 855 intended to 
be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 859

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the names of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp), the Senator from Kansas (Mr. Moran) and the 
Senator

[[Page S5483]]

from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) were added as cosponsors of amendment 
No. 859 intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize 
appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the 
Department of Defense, for military construction, and for defense 
activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel 
strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 867

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cruz) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 867 intended to be 
proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 
for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 879

  At the request of Mr. Johnson, the name of the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 
879 intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the Department of 
Defense, for military construction, and for defense activities of the 
Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for 
such fiscal year, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 892

  At the request of Mr. Hoeven, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Cotton) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 892 intended to 
be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 915

  At the request of Mr. Kaine, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Warner) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 915 intended to 
be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 942

  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Graham) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 942 
intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for 
fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, 
for military construction, and for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 984

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the names of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Cardin), the Senator from California (Mrs. Feinstein), the Senator 
from New Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen), the Senator from Massachusetts (Mr. 
Markey), the Senator from Washington (Mrs. Murray), the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin), the Senator from Illinois (Mr. Durbin), the 
Senator from Hawaii (Mr. Schatz), the Senator from Vermont (Mr. 
Sanders), the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Merkley), the Senator from 
Vermont (Mr. Leahy), the Senator from Michigan (Mr. Peters), the 
Senator from Washington (Ms. Cantwell), the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Booker), the Senator from Minnesota (Mr. Franken), the Senator 
from Hawaii (Ms. Hirono), the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Brown) and the 
Senator from California (Ms. Harris) were added as cosponsors of 
amendment No. 984 intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize 
appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the 
Department of Defense, for military construction, and for defense 
activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel 
strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 990

  At the request of Mr. Boozman, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Cotton) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 990 intended to 
be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 993

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, her name was added as a cosponsor of 
amendment No. 993 intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize 
appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the 
Department of Defense, for military construction, and for defense 
activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel 
strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes.
  At the request of Mr. Kaine, his name was added as a cosponsor of 
amendment No. 993 intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, supra.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 996

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the names of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto), the Senator from New Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) and the 
Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Whitehouse) were added as cosponsors of 
amendment No. 996 intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize 
appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the 
Department of Defense, for military construction, and for defense 
activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel 
strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes.

                          ____________________



