

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 148 (Wednesday, September 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 148 (Wednesday, September 13, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H7334]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       TRIBUTE TO NADEAM ELSHAMI

  (Mr. RYAN of Wisconsin asked and was given permission to address the 
House for 1 minute.)
  Mr. RYAN of Wisconsin. Mr. Speaker, it is not often that I say this, 
but I rise today to agree wholeheartedly with the Democratic leader.
  I know that what we do in this Chamber is often portrayed as just 
nothing but bitterly partisan. But in reality, making this place work, 
making this institution work, it really actually does depend on 
cooperation across the aisle every day: between our leaders, between 
our floor teams, and especially between our chiefs of staff.
  I can tell you that Nadeam has always been first class. He can be as 
formidable as they come, but he is always fair, and he is always 
straightforward. His word is good, and that really is everything. It 
sets a tone of civility as we go about trying to address the big 
pressing issues of the day.
  Mr. Speaker, I would say, especially to the staff, the example that 
Nadeam sets goes far beyond being the chief of staff. Here is a guy who 
started in the mailroom in the United States Senate and rose to one of 
the top positions in all of Congress. It is an incredible rise.
  To put 25 years here certainly takes a deep commitment to public 
service. It takes a willingness to be in the arena and take everything 
that comes with that. It takes passing over endless great 
opportunities, even as you watch people around you move on. And, most 
of all, it takes the love and support of a beautiful family. Stacy, 
thank you for being here today. None of us would be here without the 
sacrifices that our loved ones make so we can serve and do good.
  Nadeam, I just want you to know, from this side of the aisle, you 
will leave here with the respect of your colleagues, you will leave 
here with the respect of the Members, and, what is most impressive, you 
will leave here even with respect from the media.
  On behalf of the whole House, I want to congratulate you and thank 
you for your 25 years to the Congress. You have devoted yourself to 
making this institution, and this country, better. Thank you so much, 
and we wish you every bit of success in the future. Thank you, Nadeam.

                          ____________________



