

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 156 (Thursday, September 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 156 (Thursday, September 28, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6221-S6222]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                      RECOGNIZING BAKER FURNITURE

 Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this week, I have the distinct 
honor of recognizing a multigeneration cornerstone of the community in 
Fallon County. Baker Furniture has served the people of eastern Montana 
for over eight decades. Through the years, the team at Baker Furniture 
has skillfully navigated changes in consumer tastes and a shifting 
business climate in order to provide quality furniture and appliances 
for the folks in Baker.
  Baker Furniture initially began operations on Main Street in 1936, by 
the original proprietor, Leif Holmlund. Leif's understudy in the 
furniture industry, Army veteran Orville Stevens, would eventually take 
the reins of the enterprise in the 1960s. Under Orville's guidance, the 
business flourished. Orville's sons, Tom and Dave, also pitched in to 
help make the business a success.
  Tom and Dave went on to assume the primary duties for the business in 
the late 1990s. After a life that included service to his Nation, 
raising a family, and operating a successful business, Orville passed 
away in 2009. Since his passing, the business that Orville developed 
has continued to thrive and meet the needs of the community.

[[Page S6222]]

  Small businesses, operated by hardworking family members, are an 
engine of commerce for many rural communities across Montana. Baker 
Furniture is a shining example of this business model, and many 
shoppers in Baker and the surrounding area are grateful. Thank you to 
the team at Baker Furniture for the many years of excellent service to 
your neighbors, and I wish you continued success in the future.

                          ____________________



