

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 186 (Tuesday, November 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 186 (Tuesday, November 14, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9188]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




          RECOGNIZING FIRST LIEUTENANT PATRICK J. McNULTY, JR.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Fitzpatrick) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize First 
Lieutenant Patrick J. McNulty, Jr., one of my constituents who, on 
Friday, November 3, received the Silver Star Medal, which is our 
Nation's third highest award for heroism in combat during the Vietnam 
war.
  On November 7, 1967, Lieutenant McNulty was serving as an artillery 
forward observer when his unit was attacked. Lieutenant McNulty called 
in accurate fire on multiple enemy positions, while also directing 
friendly units. Even after being seriously wounded, Lieutenant McNulty 
continued to fight. As the enemy began to retreat, Lieutenant McNulty 
organized the effort to provide aid to his wounded comrades. Lieutenant 
McNulty's actions saved lives.
  Lieutenant McNulty returned home to his wife and raised his children. 
He purchased a home in Sellersville where he has now lived for 46 
years. He earned an MBA from Temple University, worked for the Ford 
Motor Company, and has been an active member of our community. His 
story continues to inspire us all.
  Madam Speaker, I offer to this body Patrick's personal motto, the 
same as Navy Seabees: ``The difficult we do now, the impossible takes a 
little longer.''


              Honoring the Life and Memory of Bernie Lens

  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the life and 
memory of Bernie Lens, who passed away in May. In his 96 years, Bernie 
lived a life that impacted a great number of people in our community. 
Today, months after his passing, his impact is still felt.
  In 1939, Bernie enlisted in the Army to fight the war in Europe. 
During his time there, serving in Patton's Third Army, he helped to 
liberate Dachau concentration camp.
  After the war, he returned home and went about his life, rarely 
talking about what he had seen, until one day he began to share his 
story. He was known in our community for his talks with students in 
schools and community centers working to ensure the horrors of what he 
saw at Dachau were not forgotten and would never happen again. People 
gravitated toward him due to his quick wit and his warm demeanor.
  He worked closely with the Holocaust Remembrance Program of Post 697 
of the Jewish War Veterans in Levittown, Bucks County, which continues 
his work today.
  Bernie found incredible purpose from a dark experience in his life, a 
lesson that we can all benefit from.

                          ____________________



