

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 195 (Thursday, November 30, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 195 (Thursday, November 30, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9526]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       WELCOMING PASTOR JON LANDS

  The SPEAKER. Without objection, the gentleman from West Virginia (Mr. 
McKinley) is recognized for 1 minute.
  There was no objection.
  Mr. McKINLEY. Mr. Speaker, I am honored to introduce today's guest 
chaplain from Vienna, West Virginia, Pastor Jon Lands. Since taking 
over as senior pastor of Fellowship Baptist Church in 1996, he has led 
the church through a period of tremendous growth. Attendance numbers 
have risen from 65 to approximately 740 with a membership of over 
1,200. This is a testament to his dedication to faithfully serving our 
community.
  He took his ministry to new heights when he started PraiseFM radio, 
FaithTalk 1450, and the Word for Life, a daily and weekly radio program 
now heard on 150 radio stations across the United States and two 
international stations.
  His service to the community doesn't stop at the church's door. He is 
a member of the executive board of directors for the Wood County 
Christian School, a member of the board for the Family Policy Council, 
and serves on the board of the Women's Care Center of Mid-Ohio Valley, 
a crisis pregnancy center dedicated to offering alternatives to 
abortion and adoption services.
  A husband and father of four, he is also a noted author, having 
written ``Be Still: God's Strategy for Serenity,'' and ``Life on the 
Level: The Balanced Christian Life.''
  I am honored to welcome Pastor Lands to the House of Representatives. 
He is a dedicated leader in the Parkersburg community, and his service 
to others is inspirational.
  Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues today to welcome Pastor Lands. May 
God bless him, our Nation, and the church family at Fellowship Baptist 
Church.

                          ____________________



