

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 187 (Wednesday, November 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 187 (Wednesday, November 15, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7260]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                         TRIBUTE TO DAVE DILLY

 Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, today I wish to honor a great 
Ohioan, Dave Dilly.
  Dave is here in Washington this week to fight for the pensions he and 
thousands of Ohioans earned over a lifetime of hard work. You may have 
even seen him and his union brothers and sisters donning the camouflage 
t-shirts that have become the trademark of their cause. Dave is a 
member of the United Mine Workers of America. He has served as the 
president of his own UMWA Local 1188 in Coshocton County and for 
several years has represented his fellow miners from all over our State 
and Nation to lobby for permanent healthcare and retirement security 
for our miners.
  That is how I came to know Dave well, through his many trips here to 
stand up for these workers. This May, the Senate passed a bill to 
finally give our miners permanent healthcare. No doubt, Dave and his 
fellow miners were responsible for that victory. If we have the same 
success this year in securing their pensions, we will owe it once again 
to Dave and hundreds of workers from around the country.
  Dave's service on behalf of our miners would be enough to earn him 
all of our respect and gratitude, but that is not why I rise to honor 
him today. His UMWA shirt is not the first time he has worn camo 
attire. Like many of our miners, Dave is also a veteran. This past 
weekend, Dave was inducted into the Ohio Veterans Hall of Fame.
  If you know Dave, it comes as no surprise to learn that service runs 
deep in his family. It is just who they are. Dave had four older 
brothers who served in the Korean war and inspired him to serve.
  Dave signed up for the Air Force, where he was a weapons mechanic and 
systems specialist from 1965 to 1968. He served in Thailand and South 
Vietnam. For part of Dave's service, he was in Da Nang, known as Rocket 
City, for the number of times it was attacked during the war.
  Dave received many military honors and carried on his service by 
working on behalf of his fellow veterans in so many ways. He served as 
a veterans service officer for Coshocton County. He is active in local 
veterans organizations, including the Veterans of Foreign Wars and the 
Disabled American Veterans.
  Every Memorial Day since 2000, Dave has helped lay flags on the 
graves of veterans. Right now, he is the vice president of the 
Coshocton County Veterans Service Commission. Dave has helped organize 
and chaperone Honor Flight trips to Washington, DC, so other veterans 
can see the memorials built in their honor.
  There seems to be no limit to what Dave will do for his fellow 
veterans, fellow workers, and fellow Ohioans.
  Dave, thank you for your service to our country, to your fellow 
veterans, and to our State. So many of us are proud of you and honored 
to call you a friend. Congratulations, Dave, on your induction to the 
Ohio Veterans Hall of Fame.

                          ____________________



