

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 159 (Wednesday, October 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 159 (Wednesday, October 4, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6323-S6324]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I have 17 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


            Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs

  The Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, October 4, 2017, at 
10 a.m. to conduct a hearing entitled, ``An Examination of the Equifax 
cybersecurity breach.''

[[Page S6324]]

  



           Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to hold an Executive Session during the session of the Senate on 
Wednesday, October 4, 2017, at 10 a.m. in room Hart 216.


               Committee on Environment and Public Works

  The Committee on Environment and Public Works is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, October 4, 2017, at 10 
a.m., in room Dirksen 406, to conduct a hearing on the following 
nominations: Michael Dourson, Matthew Leopold, David Ross, and William 
Wehrum to be Assistant Administrators of the Environmental Protection 
Agency; and Jeffery Baran to be a Member of the Nuclear Regulatory 
Commission.


               Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

  The Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, October 4, 2017, after 
the first vote scheduled at 11 a.m., in room S-216, to hold a business 
meeting to consider the following nominations: Bruce J. Walker and 
Steven E. Winberg, to be Assistant Secretaries of Energy.


                          Committee on Finance

  The Committee on Finance is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Wednesday, October 4, 2017, at 9:30 a.m., in room Dirksen 
215, to consider favorably reporting the Keep Kids' Insurance 
Dependable and Secure (KIDS) Act of 2017.


                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, October 4, 2017, at 9:15 a.m., to 
hold a briefing ``Ordered Departure of Personnel from the U.S. Embassy 
in Havana, Cuba.''


                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, October 4, 2017, at 10:30 a.m., to 
hold a hearing on nominations.


           Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is authorized 
to meet, during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, October 4, 
2017, at 3 p.m., in room Dirksen 406 to conduct a hearing entitled 
``Department of Labor and National Labor Relations Board Nominations.''


        Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs

  The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, 
October 4, 2017, at 10 a.m. for a business meeting.


                      Committee on Indian Affairs

  The Committee on Indian Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, October 4, 2017, at 2:30 p.m., in 
room Hart 216, to conduct a business meeting considering the following: 
S. 943, Johnson-O'Malley Supplemental Indian Education Program 
Modernization Act.


                      Committee on Indian Affairs

  The Committee on Indian Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, October 4, 2017, at 2:30 p.m., in 
room Hart 216, to conduct an oversight hearing entitled ``Doubling Down 
on Indian Gaming: Examining New Issues and Opportunities for Success in 
the Next 30 years.''


                         Committee on Judiciary

  The Committee on Judiciary is authorized to meet during the session 
of the Senate, on Wednesday, October 4, 2017, at 10 a.m., in room 
Dirksen 226 to conduct a hearing on nominations.


                     Committee on Veterans' Affairs

  The Committee on Veterans' Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, October 4, 2017, at 2:30 p.m. to 
conduct a hearing on pending nominations.


                       Special Committee on Aging

  The Special Committee on Aging is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, October 4, 2017, at 9 a.m. in room 
Dirksen 562, to conduct a hearing ``Still Ringing off the Hook: An 
Update on Efforts to Combat Robocalls.''


                    Select Committee on Intelligence

  The Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, October 4, 2017 at 2:30 p.m. in 
room Hart 219 to hold a closed briefing.


                   Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere

  The Committee on Foreign Relations Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere 
is authorized to meet during the session of Senate on Wednesday, 
October 4, 2017, at 11 a.m., to hold a hearing ``The Future of Iraq's 
Minorities: What's Next after ISIS.''


            Subcommittee on Privacy, Technology and the Law

  The Committee on Judiciary Subcommittee on Privacy, Technology and 
the Law is authorized to meet during the session of Senate on 
Wednesday, October 4, 2017, at 2:30 p.m., in room Dirksen 226, to 
conduct a hearing ``Equifax: Continuing to Monitor Data-Broker 
Cybersecurity.''

                          ____________________



