

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 194 (Wednesday, November 29, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 194 (Wednesday, November 29, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9472]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




    STEVE TAZZA AND THE VETERAN OPPORTUNITY PARTNERS ARE DEVOTED TO 
                          SUPPORTING VETERANS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Fitzpatrick) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize Steve Tazza and the 
Veteran Opportunity Partners for their devotion to supporting the 
veterans of my district. By encouraging the growth of veteran-owned 
businesses, Veteran Opportunity Partners provides an example for us all 
about the importance of serving our Nation's heroes.
  Veteran Opportunity Partners and Steve Tazza began providing services 
to the residents of my district and career opportunities to our 
veterans in the spring of 2017. They plan to expand the geographic 
reach of their service to our vets, while creating hundreds of careers 
for our veterans, in the years to come.
  The work that Mr. Tazza and those at Veteran Opportunity Partners do 
for our veterans is not only worthy of our recognition, Mr. Speaker, 
but it is also worthy of our support. We are so proud of all they do to 
serve our Nation's heroes.


         FIRST Robotics is Committed to Inspiring Young Leaders

  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, today I rise to recognize FIRST 
Robotics and their student mentoring program for its commitment to 
inspiring young leaders in our Nation and in my district. FIRST 
Robotics, through their competitions and mentor-based programs, engages 
young people to help foster an understanding and appreciation for 
science and technology.
  FIRST Robotics competitions take place across the world. From as 
young as 6 to as old as 18, students can get involved in technology and 
robotics challenges like the FIRST Robotics Competition.
  The FIRST Robotics Competition asks high school students to design, 
build, and test robots over the course of 6 weeks. Students fundraise 
the entirety of the money they need for these robots, which can cost 
thousands of dollars to build, by partnering with local businesses or 
applying for grants. By taking part in these competitions and working 
with older mentors, students learn invaluable skills, like 
technological research, to help them develop into well-rounded 
individuals.
  I am proud to have 26 FIRST teams in my district. The young people 
involved in these leagues and competitions, including those who mentor 
them, show the leadership and inquisitive spirit necessary for our 
future technological innovators.

                          ____________________



