

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 167 (Tuesday, October 17, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 167 (Tuesday, October 17, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6489]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, I have 4 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


            Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs

  The Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban affairs is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, October 17, 2017, at 
10 a.m. to conduct a hearing entitled, ``Consumer Data Security and the 
Credit Bureaus.''


           Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, October 17, 2017, 
at 10 a.m. in room SD-430 to conduct a hearing entitled ``The Cost of 
Prescription Drugs: How the Drug Delivery System Affects What Patients 
Pay, Part II''.


                       Committee on the Judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, October 17, 2017, at 10 a.m., in room 
SD-226 to conduct a hearing on the following nominations: Gregory G. 
Katsas, of Virginia, to be United States Circuit Judge for the District 
of Columbia Circuit, Jeffrey Uhlman Beaverstock, to be United States 
District Judge for the Southern District of Alabama, Emily Coody Marks, 
and Brett Joseph Talley, both to be a United States District Judge for 
the Middle District of Alabama, and Holly Lou Teeter, to be United 
States District Judge for the District of Kansas.


                    Select Committee on Intelligence

  The Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, October 17, 2017, at 2:30 
p.m., in room SH-216 to hold a hearing entitled ``Open Hearing on the 
Nomination of Christopher Sharpley to be the inspector General of the 
Central Intelligence Agency.''

                          ____________________



