

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 178 (Thursday, November 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 178 (Thursday, November 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6982-S6989]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will report the nomination.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read the nomination of 
Stephanos Bibas, of Pennsylvania, to be United States Circuit Judge for 
the Third Circuit.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Pennsylvania.


                               Tax Reform

  Mr. TOOMEY. Madam President, I rise to speak about the nomination of 
Professor Stephanos Bibas, on whom we have just invoked cloture, but 
before I do that, I want to take a quick moment to observe that we had 
a big development today--a big development in that the House of 
Representatives, the majority Ways and Means Committee members, led by 
Kevin Brady and Speaker of the House Paul Ryan, have unveiled a tax 
reform plan that is a very exciting step forward in our ambition to 
bring tax relief and is a direct pay raise to hard-working Americans 
whom we represent, creating an environment where we could have much 
stronger economic growth and much more opportunity and rising wages for 
the American people.
  So I congratulate Chairman Brady and all the members of the Ways and 
Means Committee. I know this process has a long way to go, but they are 
off to a great start with a very solid bill. I look forward to 
continuing to work with my colleagues on the Finance Committee as we 
finalize our version of the pro-middle-class, pro-growth tax reform, 
and I am excited to see that step forward.
  Madam President, let me get back to the issue of the candidacy of 
Professor Stephanos Bibas and say how enthusiastically I support his 
candidacy to serve as a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 
Third Circuit.
  I thank the President for nominating Professor Bibas, I thank 
Chairman Grassley for moving Professor Bibas through the nomination 
process of his committee, and I thank Leader McConnell for bringing 
Professor Bibas's nomination to the floor. I also thank my colleagues 
who just voted to invoke cloture so that later today we can vote to 
confirm this terrifically well-qualified man to a really important 
court.
  Let me touch on some of his qualities. Professor Bibas has a 
tremendous wealth of experience in the law as a legal scholar and a 
practicing attorney, so much so that the American Bar Association voted 
to give him a unanimous rating of ``well-qualified,'' and let me tell 
you why. No. 1, he starts with outstanding academic credentials. 
Professor Bibas graduated summa cum laude and Phi Beta Kappa from 
Columbia University, and he did so at the age of 19. After Columbia, he 
studied at Oxford University in England and earned his law degree from 
Yale University.
  He has clerked at the highest levels of our Federal court system. He 
clerked for U.S. Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy and Judge 
Patrick Higginbotham on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth 
Circuit.
  The fact is, Professor Bibas is an accomplished legal scholar. For 16 
years, he has served as law professor at two outstanding universities--
the University of Iowa College of Law and the University of 
Pennsylvania School of Law. Professor Bibas has been a prolific author 
whose academic writings are frequently cited by the U.S. Supreme Court, 
courts of appeals, and other law professors. He has written two books 
and more than 60 articles, many of which have focused on criminal law 
and procedures. In fact, in his writings, he has expressed views 
regarding criminal justice reform that I suspect many of my Democratic 
colleagues would share. For instance, Professor Bibas has criticized 
what he sees as the overuse of plea bargains in our courts as being 
unfair to criminal defendants who then never get their day in court.
  So there is no question that Professor Bibas has very extensive 
academic credentials, but he is also an experienced attorney. He has 
served on both sides of our criminal justice system. He has been a 
prosecutor, and he

[[Page S6983]]

has been a defense attorney. He has a balanced perspective from both 
sides of this part of our judicial system. He served as a Federal 
prosecutor in New York City, where he prosecuted over 100 criminal 
cases.
  Currently, he is the director of the Supreme Court Clinic at the 
University of Pennsylvania. Professor Bibas also argued six cases 
before the U.S. Supreme Court. He won a landmark U.S. Supreme Court 
decision for a criminal defendant in the Padilla v. Kentucky case, a 
case that held criminal defense attorneys must advise their noncitizen 
clients about the deportation risk associated with a guilty plea. That 
was a Professor Bibas case. He has represented dozens of other clients 
before the Supreme Court, and most of those cases were pro bono 
clients--clients he did not charge any fees because they couldn't 
afford experienced counsel. He voluntarily provided that service for 
them.
  Over the course of the work he has done, as a result of the work he 
has done for the Supreme Court, he has been praised by both Justices 
Kagan and Ginsberg. Justice Ginsberg praised him as ``among the very 
best of lawyers presenting cases to the Supreme Court.''
  I hope all of my colleagues will support Professor Bibas's 
nomination. He has outstanding credentials, he has a wealth of 
experience, and I hope everyone will see that in his background.
  I must state I am disappointed that Senator Durbin, our colleague 
from Illinois, has stated that he opposes Professor Bibas's nomination. 
Senator Durbin has stated that his opposition is because of an 
unpublished academic paper that Professor Bibas drafted in 2009. In 
that paper, he proposed the consideration of the use of corporal 
punishment as an alternative to imprisonment for certain criminal 
offenses, but Professor Bibas has stated unequivocally that he decided 
not to publish the paper because he realized that idea was wrong, was 
deeply offensive, and he does not support corporal punishment for 
criminals.
  Professor Bibas also testified at his confirmation hearing that he 
fully understands and respects the difference between the role of a 
professor who considers theoretical questions and writes about them, on 
the one hand, versus, on the other hand, a judge who is deciding cases 
that impact the lives of real people.
  One of the most important reasons I am an enthusiastic supporter of 
Professor Bibas is his clear understanding of the role of a judge in 
the American constitutional system. From my review of his record and 
from my conversation with him, it is clear he understands the proper 
role of a judge is to apply the law, including the Constitution, as 
written and not to make policy himself and that his obligation is to 
treat everyone absolutely equally, regardless of race, sex, wealth, 
political affiliation, political connections, or anything else.
  Unfortunately, many liberals and progressives have a very different 
view of a judge. Many of my colleagues and others believe the 
Constitution is a living document, by which they mean that it really 
means whatever a judge decides it means. Under this view, changes to 
the law and Constitution can be made by unelected, unaccountable judges 
who then substitute their policy preference for the preference of the 
American people as reflected in their elected representatives. Some who 
hold this view even think judges should take into account such factors 
as a person's race, sex, wealth, or political affiliation in deciding 
cases. In my view, that is a deeply flawed view of the law and is 
fundamentally inconsistent with the principles of the separation of 
powers that is essential to our democracy, the sovereignty of the 
American people, and the fair and equal application of the law to all 
people. Contrary to this view, Professor Bibas understands the proper 
role of a judge is to apply the law as written and to treat everyone 
who comes before him equally, not to impose his policy preferences or 
impose the law differently for different people.
  Finally, let me say a word about Professor Bibas's temperament and 
suitability for the bench. I think it is very clear that not only does 
he understand the role a judge is supposed to play, but he is a man of 
character and of a temperament that makes him very fit to be a judge. I 
will give you an example. In one letter of support for his nomination, 
a bipartisan group of 121 law professors from across the ideological 
spectrum stated that ``his fair-mindedness, conscientiousness, and 
personal integrity are beyond question.''
  In another quote, ``We have no doubt that his judicial temperament 
will reflect these qualities and that he will faithfully discharge his 
duty to apply the law fairly and evenhandedly in all matters before 
him.''
  I am very pleased and proud to support Professor Bibas's nomination 
to the Third Circuit. I am completely confident he has the intellect, 
experience, temperament, and respect for the limited role of a judge in 
our system, those attributes that are necessary for him to excel as a 
Federal appellate judge, and I am pleased to speak on behalf of this 
highly qualified nominee. I urge all of my colleagues to support his 
confirmation.
  Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that notwithstanding rule 
XXII, all postcloture time on the Bibas nomination expire at 1:45 p.m. 
today.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Sasse). Is there objection?
  Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The Senator from Maryland.


                               Tax Reform

  Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. President, I see my friend and colleague from 
Pennsylvania on the floor. We have worked together on a number of 
things over the years, including now, working together to impose and 
really enforce sanctions against North Korea, putting together a bill 
modeled after the Iran sanctions bill so we are serious about working 
to get China and others to come to the table. I thank my colleague for 
his work on that.
  Where we disagree strongly is on the bill that has emerged from the 
House of Representatives, the so-called tax reform bill. The Senator 
from Pennsylvania said people should be excited to see it. I can assure 
you, if you are a millionaire or billionaire, you are going to be 
really excited about the bill that is coming out of the House and 
supported by President Trump.
  I want to talk a little bit about tax reform because we need tax 
reform in America. We need to simplify our Tax Code. It has been gummed 
up over many years with special tax breaks that are there not because 
they make good sense for the American people but because somebody was 
able to hire a high-priced lobbyist to give them a break the rest of 
the country does not enjoy. We need to simplify our Tax Code, and we 
need to reform our Tax Code.
  Unfortunately, what we are seeing come from Republicans today, 
supported by the Trump administration, doesn't do that. In fact, what 
it will do is provide full-time employment for tax accountants around 
the country because it creates all sorts of special provisions for 
powerful, special interests. It will dramatically cut taxes for big 
multinational corporations and for millionaires and billionaires, and 
everybody else is going to be left to pick up the bill in one way or 
another.
  Now we know why this has been cooked up behind closed doors for so 
long. People knew it would have a lot of turbulence when it emerged. 
Secondly, we know why there is such a desperate effort to ram this huge 
tax proposal through the House and the Senate--because people don't 
want the American people to figure out exactly what is in it because 
when they do, they are going to see it is bad for everybody but the 
folks who are at the very top or who are very powerful.
  The good news is that people have scrambled to begin to look at this. 
In fact, certain groups like Realtors--we all have Realtors in all our 
neighborhoods. They are often very connected to our community. They 
know exactly what is going on. So they have been monitoring this 
Republican tax plan and raising concerns about it. In fact, they said 
just a few days ago that because there was this effort ``to speed tax 
legislation through the House by Thanksgiving and get it to Mr. Trump 
by the end of the year, `we didn't feel like we could wait,''' said the 
representatives from the National Association of Realtors.
  So they began to do an analysis of the impact, and here is what they 
had to say today when they caught a glimpse of what was actually in the 
Republican Trump bill. They said that

[[Page S6984]]

they are reviewing the details, but at first glance it appears to 
``confirm many of our biggest concerns'' about the plan. ``Eliminating 
or nullifying the tax incentives for homeownership puts home values and 
middle class homeowners at risk.''
  We will be hearing more from them, but they commissioned a study that 
was done by PricewaterhouseCoopers, which concluded that if you have 
adjusted gross income between $50,000 and $200,000 and you are a 
homeowner, on average, you are going to see your taxes go up. They also 
concluded that home values around the country would fall by 10 
percent--not sure when they would begin to recover, but they would fall 
by 10 percent. Home values would go down, and taxes for middle-class 
homeowners would go up.
  Homebuilders, who are a really important part of our economy, are 
already against this strongly. They have made it clear that this would 
hurt new homebuilding around the country, which, as we know, is an 
important driver in our economy.
  Even NFIB, the National Federation of Independent Business, took a 
look at the bill and said: ``[It] leaves too many small businesses 
behind.''
  I will tell you exactly who this helps. This helps big, multinational 
corporations. When you drop the tax rate to 20 percent, they get a $2 
trillion tax windfall. I would be happy to talk to my colleagues about 
corporate tax reform that doesn't blow up the deficit, but this 
proposal is a $2 trillion giveaway to big, multinational corporations 
under the theory that somehow, when you give a big tax break to a 
multinational corporation, it is actually going to increase the wages 
of their workers. Well, we know that just isn't so. We know it from 
independent analysts.
  The nonpartisan, professional Congressional Research Service has 
looked at the claims of the proponents of this bill and said: No, this 
isn't going to be a big boost to workers; it is going to be a big boost 
to the owners of the corporations.
  If you don't like nonpartisan analysis--and you know we have a new 
whole machinery of fake news around here and around this country--why 
don't we listen to the CEOs themselves? Here is what Reuters reported 
in a headline: ``CEOs suggest Trump tax cut may lift investors more 
than jobs.'' That is what the CEOs say. Do you know what? We know from 
our own experience and our own observations that is absolutely true.
  Let's look at the real world. We have seen record increases in 
corporate profits over the last many years--record increases. Did that 
extra money, did those bigger profits go to higher wages for American 
workers? They did not. They have been flat. They have been stagnant. We 
have had a growing gap between rising corporate profits and the wages 
of people who work for those corporations. So now we are going to give 
those same multinational corporations another $2 trillion windfall and 
think it is going to somehow trickle down to the workers? It just is 
not the case. That is not how they are using their profits.
  The owners of those corporations will pocket the overwhelming lion's 
share for themselves. We know that because that is what they have been 
doing already, and giving them another $2 trillion isn't going to 
change that pattern.
  To add insult to injury, not only is this going to be a tax windfall 
for big corporations that have record profits right now, but because of 
the way this is designed with respect to the international Tax Code, it 
is going to create incentives for American corporations to move from 
Baltimore, MD, overseas or from any other place in the United States 
overseas. I am not just talking about moving their profits to tax 
shelters, which you see happen today. You know they park their profits 
in the Cayman Islands, and they park their intellectual property in 
low-tax havens. Because of the way they have designed this--a 10 
percent average international rate--they are actually encouraging 
American businesses and corporations to move their operations and their 
jobs overseas.
  Let's look at another part of the plan. We keep hearing from our 
colleagues that this is going to help folks in the middle class. Let's 
look at the estate tax. If you are an American couple today and your 
estate is less than $11 million, you don't pay one penny in Federal 
estate tax--not one. Somehow it became an imperative of the 
Republicans, who put together this plan, to give a tax break to people 
with estates of over $11 million. So, first, they lift that cap from 
$11 million to somewhere like $20, $22 million, and then they get rid 
of it altogether. That doesn't help a single American household with an 
estate that is less than $11 million. We are talking about 2 out of 
every 1,000 American households that will benefit. That apparently was 
a big priority of the Trump administration and the Republicans, who put 
together this plan.
  So who is going to pay for it? Who is going to pay for the $2 
trillion tax cut for big multinational corporations? Who is going to 
pay for the windfall tax break for big, big estates? Everybody else. 
That is why the Realtors are against it. That is why the homebuilders 
are against it. That is why others are already against it, along with 
lots of other groups. Middle-class taxpayers are going to have to pick 
up the tab.
  Do you know what they do in this bill, this Republican bill? They 
eliminate the ability of Americans to deduct their State and local 
taxes. Except for property taxes, all of those State and local taxes 
are now going to be paid on twice. You are going to pay your State and 
local government, and then out of that same dollar, you are going to 
pay your Federal tax. That is double taxation.
  Here is the irony. If you are a corporation in one of those States, 
you get to deduct your State and local taxes in whatever State it may 
be. If you are a corporation, you get to take that deduction. If you 
are workers, if you are homeowners, no, you don't get to take that 
deduction. You are going to pay more.
  Here is the really ironic thing. After they provide these big tax 
breaks to multinational corporations and millionaires and billionaires 
and raise taxes on millions of middle-class families, they are still 
leaving this country with a $1.5 trillion debt. It is written right 
into the budget.
  I served as the senior Democrat on the House Budget Committee for a 
long time. Speaker Ryan used to be the chairman of that committee. He 
talked at length about the dangers of rising national debt. Do you know 
what? This is a serious issue. I used to think my Republican colleagues 
were serious about it, but now we discover they were only using that as 
a lever to justify their cause for cutting Medicare, cutting Medicaid, 
cutting Social Security, cutting education: Oh, the debt is really 
high; we have to cut all these things. But tax cuts for big 
corporations and millionaires and billionaires, let's add that to the 
national credit card. That is $1.5 trillion to be paid for by everybody 
else--our kids and grandkids.
  Do you know what will happen? We will pass this tax cut for the 
special interests and powerful Americans, and then all of a sudden, I 
assure you, our Republican friends will rediscover their concern about 
the national debt. They will rediscover it once they get through with 
this windfall tax cut, and then they will want to come around and cut 
Medicare and Medicaid and education.
  Do you know how we know that? They have already told us. In the 
budget that passed this Senate and the House, they called for cutting 
Medicare by almost $500 billion--$473 billion to be exact--cutting 
Medicaid by a trillion dollars, cutting education investments very 
deeply, cutting our investments in national infrastructure. So we know 
that once they blow up the debt by another $1.5 trillion, they are 
going to come right back and say to seniors on Medicare or Americans 
who rely on Medicaid or our kids whose education we want to invest in: 
Sorry, now we have that national debt we just created. Let's come back 
and cut everything else.
  I really hope that everyone will take a step back. We should not rush 
through something that will do great damage to the country and great 
damage to the middle class just because of someone's political 
imperative to get something--anything--done. The reality is that while 
we do need tax reform, we don't want to mess things up even worse than 
they are today.
  I would welcome the opportunity to work on a bipartisan basis for 
genuine

[[Page S6985]]

tax reform and simplification of the Tax Code, but I will not support 
any effort that hikes our national debt by $1.5 trillion in order to 
give big tax breaks to multinational corporations and millionaires and 
billionaires. We can do a whole lot better. We should do better.
  Thank you.
  Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, last Thursday, Leader McConnell filed 
cloture on four circuit court nominees, including two nominees who had 
been voted out of the Judiciary Committee that very morning.
  Voting on four controversial circuit court nominees in 1 week is 
highly unusual, as is voting on nominees just days after they have 
moved out of committee.
  Senators who aren't on the Judiciary Committee deserve time to 
consider nominees, review their backgrounds, and make an informed 
decision for their vote.
  But that is not what is happening in the Senate this week. Instead, 
Republican Senate leadership is pushing President Trump's judges 
through as quickly as possible.
  Jamming through as many controversial judges as possible in as short 
a time as possible--to lifetime appointments, no less--is 
irresponsible. I cannot remember a time when we had cloture votes on 
four circuit nominees in 1 week.
  It is important to understand the context in which we find ourselves.
  After failing to repeal the Affordable Care Act and with the 
Republican tax reform plan facing opposition within his own party, 
President Trump has turned more and more to Executive orders to 
influence policy.
  As we have seen, move after move has run into opposition in Federal 
courts. So it is really no surprise that Republicans are trying to 
stack those courts with ideological judges whom they hope and expect 
will uphold the President's harmful policies.
  Consider how many Trump actions have or will see time in the 
courtroom, and you begin to understand why Republicans are rushing to 
fill these vacancies--after allowing countless vacancies to remain 
unfilled at the end of the last administration.
  In each of the following cases, the President and Senate Republicans 
seem to hope that the outcome will be different with a transformed 
judiciary.
  The President's Muslim travel ban has been struck down by multiple 
courts who ruled that the ban is based on religion and suspending the 
refugee program is discriminatory, with no basis in fact. The President 
went so far as to personally insult some of the judges who heard 
arguments on the travel ban.
  The President's decision to end the DACA program is also likely to 
find its way into the courtroom. Beginning on March 5, 2018, it is 
estimated that around 1,000 DACA recipients per day will lose their 
protection from deportation. By ending the program and thrusting 
690,000 young people into legal limbo, the President ensured that 
lawsuits would be filed, and he certainly is hopeful that conservative 
judges are on the stand to hear the cases.
  We have also seen the Trump administration make moves to restrict 
women's access to healthcare. One woman had to go to Federal court 
twice to challenge the government's efforts to restrict her access to 
reproductive care. The full D.C. Circuit chided the attempt to 
``bulldoze over constitutional lines'' and deny this 17-year-old young 
woman court-approved reproductive care. Republicans tried to block 
three of President Obama's nominees to this same court and now are 
rushing to fill its one vacancy as quickly as is possible. That is not 
a coincidence.
  President Trump's voter fraud commission will also certainly end up 
in legal battles. At least eight lawsuits have been filed against the 
President's Presidential Commission on Election Integrity, created to 
investigate false claims that 3 million people voted illegally last 
year. It is possible the commission has already violated Federal laws 
with regard to how it handled sensitive information. This is already 
the subject of ongoing litigation.
  These are just a handful of Trump actions that will see time in 
court. They highlight not only what is at state, but also why the 
President is so anxious to hurry judges that he has selected on the 
bench.
  I would add that Republicans are now rushing to fill judicial 
vacancies for this President after spending years blocking President 
Obama from filling many of these same vacancies. It actually is the 
most egregious effort I have ever seen.
  This record of obstruction dates back to 2001 during the Clinton 
administration. Senate Republicans used secret holds on nominees to 
prevent judicial nominees from receiving committee hearings or floor 
votes. This resulted in Republicans ``pocket filibustering'' nearly 70 
of President Clinton's circuit and district court nominees, preventing 
their confirmation. As discussed by Senator Leahy when he served as 
chair and ranking member of the committee, Republicans would block 
nominees through pocket filibustering, which meant they would deny 
nominees hearings or up-or-down votes in committee. This is a chart 
that lists those nominees.
  Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to have the chart printed in 
the Record following my remarks.
  In the first 5 years of the Obama administration, Republicans forced 
Obama's district court nominees to wait nearly three times as long and 
circuit court nominees nearly twice as long as Bush nominees for 
confirmation votes. During the final 2 years of his Presidency, Senate 
Republicans engaged in a historic blockade of judicial nominees.
  It wasn't just the unprecedented decision to block Chief Judge 
Merrick Garland for the Supreme Court.
  During the final 2 years of President Obama's administration, only 22 
judicial nominees were confirmed--and just nine in the final year.
  That is the lowest number of judges confirmed in a 2-year Congress 
since President Truman was in office. Contrast this with the last 2 
years of the Bush administration when Democrats were in the Senate 
majority and still confirmed 68 of his nominees.
  In the last 2 years under President Obama, there were 53 article III 
judicial nominees pending in the Senate at the end of 2016. That is 53 
nominees who Republicans either refused to hold hearings on or refused 
to confirm once they were on the floor.
  In fact, of those 53 nominees, 25 had been voted out of committee and 
were waiting for confirmation on the Senate floor. All they needed was 
for the Republican leadership to bring them up for a floor vote.
  Twenty-three of those 25 nominees had been unanimously voice-voted 
out of committee with overwhelming bipartisan support. Still, 
Republicans refused to confirm them.
  Since my colleagues have spent some time noting that three of the 
circuit court nominees we are considering this week are women, I would 
like to note that half of the nominees Republicans blocked from 
becoming circuit and district court judges last year were women.
  Here is the point: Republican leadership wanted those seats, 
including the Supreme Court, left open in the hopes that a Republican 
would be elected President and pick new judges. They ignored the needs 
of country and the judiciary for their own political wants.
  Two of the nominees we are considering this week--Amy Coney Barrett 
and Stephanos Bibas--are filling seats that President Obama had 
nominated African-American women to. Neither were confirmed because 
Republican home-State senators didn't return blue slips. That is a 
fact.
  Judge John Bush, who now sits on the Court of Appeals for the Sixth 
Circuit, was likewise confirmed only because Leader McConnell refused 
to return a blue slip on a well-qualified woman, Kentucky Supreme Court 
Justice Lisabeth Tabor Hughes, whom President Obama had nominated last 
year.
  Republicans exploited the blue slip process during the Obama 
Presidency, but today we hear constant rumors that Republicans want to 
do away with the process--another tool allowing them to ram through 
more judges.
  It is worth noting that, even though Democrats had sincere, 
legitimate concerns about the writings of John Bush--which included him 
equating slavery and abortion--his nomination was rushed through by 
Leader McConnell.
  John Bush was confirmed just 73 days after he was nominated. In fact, 
President Trump's first four circuit court

[[Page S6986]]

nominees waited just 84 days, on average, from nomination until 
confirmation. By contrast President Obama's first four circuit court 
nominees waited an average of 213 days. That is nearly three times 
longer.
  The hypocrisy we are seeing on display is stunning. With that in 
mind, I want to say a few words about the nominees themselves.
  Our Nation's appellate courts are the final deciders of the vast 
majority of cases, so a nominees experience matters a great deal to me. 
However, the first nominee we voted on, Professor Amy Barrett, who has 
now been confirmed to the Seventh Circuit, had very limited experience.
  She did not have any experience as a judge, and she only worked on 
one trial before becoming a professor.
  Practically speaking, this meant the only record on which we could 
judge her was her academic writings. In those writings, I was 
especially troubled by her position that Supreme Court precedents can 
simply be set aside when a Justice disagrees with them.
  The National Women's Law Center wrote that these writings ``raise 
serious concerns'' about how Professor Barrett, if confirmed, ``would 
interpret, apply, and follow precedent, including Supreme Court 
precedent.'' In fact, they point out that Professor Barrett's ``prior 
writings consistently suggest that she believes precedents like Roe and 
Casey should be considered weaker and are susceptible to challenge. . . 
.''
  That is why I was unable to support Professor Barrett's nomination.
  The second nominee we voted on was Justice Joan Larsen for the Sixth 
Circuit. Justice Larsen, who currently serves on the Michigan Supreme 
Court, has deeply troubling views on Presidential powers.
  In fact, she advocated for the Bush administration's view that the 
President had the authority to disregard a law that Congress had just 
passed, which prohibited the U.S. Government from using torture.
  It is no surprise that President Trump, who has shown contempt for 
the other coequal branches of government, nominated Justice Larsen. Her 
views are undoubtedly part of why the President included Justice Larsen 
on his short list of Supreme Court nominees last year.
  President Trump repeatedly made clear that he was only considering 
nominees for the Supreme Court who passed his litmus tests, including 
to overturn Roe v. Wade. Recall President Trump's interview with ``60 
Minutes'' immediately after he won the election. He said, ``I'm pro-
life. And the judges are going to be pro-life.''
  He added that his judges were going to be ``very pro-Second 
Amendment.''
  We heard from 30 groups who were concerned about Justice Larsen's 
nomination, and several highlighted the danger of this litmus test.
  As Lambda Legal wrote, ``A decision by this Committee to advance her 
nomination will be rightfully understood as not only a threat to Roe 
but also to the LGBT cases that were built upon Roe's foundation.''
  I opposed Justice Larsen's nomination.
  The third nominee we are considering is Justice Allison Eid for the 
Tenth Circuit. She was also included on President Trump's short list of 
Supreme Court nominees last year.
  Since 2006, Justice Eid has served on the Colorado Supreme Court. A 
review of her opinions shows why the Denver Post wrote in September 
before her hearing: ``On the state's high court, Eid has earned a 
reputation as one of its most conservative members.'' Here are just a 
couple of examples.
  In 2014, the Colorado Supreme Court held that a worker who fell down 
a flight of stairs at her workplace and suffered multiple aneurysms as 
a result deserved to be compensated under the State's workplace 
compensation law. Justice Eid dissented, arguing that the employee did 
not deserve any compensation for her injuries, in City of Brighton v. 
Rodriguez.
  In 2012, Justice Eid was the lone dissenting vote when the Colorado 
Supreme Court upheld a new redistricting map that was drawn to protect 
residents' constitutional right under the ``one person, one vote'' 
standard. The old map had unequal populations and was redone with the 
extensive work of a trial court.
  On appeal, Justice Eid was the only dissenting judge, and she argued 
to throw out the trial court's work because she believed it had not 
given ``adequate weight'' to one entirely optional factor.
  Justice Eid's record has also led a number of organizations to oppose 
her nomination, including the AFL-CIO, the Leadership Conference on 
Civil and Human Rights--LCCR--and Planned Parenthood.
  I opposed Justice Eid's nomination.
  The final nominee we will vote on is Professor Stephanos Bibas for 
the Third Circuit. Like Professor Barrett, much of his legal career has 
been spent in academia, so our job in reviewing his record is to 
carefully consider his writings.
  Professor Bibas's writings have focused on criminal law, and he has 
pushed forward controversial ideas about punishment. His most troubling 
proposals were set out in a paper he wrote in 2009.
  In it, he argued that, for a wide variety of crimes, ``the default 
punishment should be non-disfiguring corporal punishment, such as 
electric shocks.''
  Bibas also suggested ``putting offenders in the stocks or pillory, 
where they would sit or stand for hours bent in uncomfortable 
positions. Bystanders and victims could jeer and pelt them with rotten 
eggs and tomatoes (but not rocks).''
  For more severe crimes, he advocated ``multiple calibrated 
electroshocks or taser shots,'' with medical personnel on hand to 
ensure ``that the offender's health could bear it.''
  These views are shocking and outside of the mainstream. A few years 
before Professor Bibas wrote his article, this body had already debated 
and passed the Detainee Treatment Act in 2005, which prohibited 
``cruel'' and ``degrading'' punishment of prisoners.
  I appreciate that Professor Bibas testified to the Judiciary 
Committee that he now understands that his views on use of corporal 
punishment for prisoners are, in his words, ``wrong and deeply 
offensive.''
  He came to this conclusion only after he repeatedly made public 
presentations on his paper, including one to a Federalist Society 
Chapter entitled, ``Corporal Punishment, Not Imprisonment: The Shocking 
Case for Hurting Criminals.''
  I cannot support Professor Bibas's nomination and will vote no.
  In closing, as my colleagues consider how they will vote on these and 
other nominees, I would urge them to consider the broader context in 
which we are considering this President's judicial nominees.
  We have a President who has demonstrated contempt for the rule of law 
and for the independence of the federal judiciary. I am deeply 
concerned that this President expects the courts to just rubberstamp 
his policy preferences.
  For every judicial nomination, we have to consider carefully the 
nominee's record and reflect on whether they can truly be fair, 
independent, and impartial--whether they will respect the rule of law. 
For these reasons and the records of the four nominees I have just 
discussed, I cannot support them.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:

                          CLINTON ADMINISTRATION: SENATE REPUBLICANS BLOCKED FROM CONFIRMATION VOTES OVER 60 JUDICIAL NOMINEES
                                                        [Source: Congressional Research Service]
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                  Hearing Date(s)                       Markup Date (if
                                             Name            Circuit/Court      First Nom Date        (if any)      Final Action Date         any)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                      Circuit Court
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1.................................  Stack, Charles R.....                 11         10/27/1995          2/28/1996          5/13/1996  .................
2.................................  Beaty, James A., Jr..                  4         12/22/1995  .................         10/21/1998

[[Page S6987]]

 
3.................................  Leonard, J. Rich.....                  4         12/22/1995  .................          10/4/1996  .................
4.................................  White, Helene N......                  6           1/7/1997  .................          3/19/2001  .................
5.................................  Ware, James S........                  9          6/27/1997         10/29/1997          11/7/1997  .................
6.................................  Rangel, Jorge C......                  5          7/24/1997  .................         10/21/1998  .................
7.................................  Raymar, Robert S.....                  3           6/5/1998  .................         10/21/1998  .................
8.................................  Goode, Barry P.......                  9          6/24/1998  .................          3/19/2001  .................
9.................................  Durham, Barbara......                  9          1/26/1999  .................           8/5/1999  .................
10................................  Johnson, H. Alston,                    5          4/22/1999  .................          3/19/2001  .................
                                     III.
11................................  Duffy, James E., Jr..                  9          6/17/1999  .................          3/19/2001  .................
12................................  Kagan, Elena.........                DCC          6/17/1999  .................         12/15/2000  .................
13................................  Wynn, James A., Jr...                  4           8/5/1999  .................          3/19/2001  .................
14................................  Lewis, Kathleen                        6          9/16/1999  .................          3/19/2001  .................
                                     McCree.
15................................  Moreno, Enrique......                  5          9/16/1999  .................          3/19/2001  .................
16................................  Lyons, James M.......                 10          9/22/1999  .................           6/6/2000  .................
17................................  Snyder, Allen R......                DCC          9/22/1999          5/10/2000         12/15/2000  .................
18................................  Markus, Kent R.......                  6           2/9/2000  .................         12/15/2000  .................
19................................  Cindrich, Robert J...                  3           2/9/2000  .................         12/15/2000  .................
20................................  Campbell, Bonnie J...                  8           3/2/2000          5/25/2000          3/19/2001  .................
21................................  Orlofsky, Stephen M..                  3          5/25/2000  .................         12/15/2000  .................
22................................  Gregory, Roger L.....                  4          6/30/2000  .................          3/19/2001  .................
23................................  Arguello, Christine                   10          7/27/2000  .................         12/15/2000  .................
                                     M..
24................................  Davis, Andre M.......                  4          10/6/2000  .................         12/15/2000  .................
25................................  Gibson, S. Elizabeth.                  4         10/26/2000  .................         12/15/2000  .................
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                                                                     District Court
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
26................................  Klein, Theodore......               S.FL         10/29/1993         11/16/1993         11/14/1994  .................
27................................  Paz, R. Samuel.......               C.CA          3/24/1994          8/25/1994         11/14/1994  .................
28................................  McConnell, Judith D..               S.CA           8/5/1994  .................         11/14/1994  .................
29................................  Tait, John R.........                 ID          8/25/1994  .................         11/14/1994  .................
30................................  Snodgrass, John D....               N.AL          9/22/1994  .................           9/5/1995  .................
31................................  Toole, Patrick J.,                  M.PA          9/23/1994  .................         11/14/1994  .................
                                     Jr..
32................................  Whitfield, Wenona Y..               S.IL          3/23/1995          7/31/1996          10/4/1996  .................
33................................  Shurin, Leland M.....               W.MO           4/4/1995  .................           9/5/1995  .................
34................................  Bingler, John H., Jr.               W.PA          7/21/1995  .................          2/12/1998  .................
35................................  Greer, Bruce W.......               S.FL           8/1/1995  .................          5/13/1996  .................
36................................  Sundram, Clarence J..               N.NY          9/29/1995          6/25/1997         10/21/1998  .................
37................................  Myerscough, Sue E....               C.IL         10/11/1995  .................          10/4/1996  .................
38................................  Wattley, Cheryl B....               N.TX         12/12/1995  .................          10/4/1996  .................
39................................  Schattman, Michael D.               N.TX         12/19/1995  .................          7/31/1998  .................
40................................  Rodriguez, Anabelle..                 PR          1/26/1996          10/1/1998         10/21/1998  .................
41................................  Lasry, Lynne R.......               S.CA          2/12/1997  .................          2/12/1998  .................
42................................  Massiah-Jackson,                    E.PA          7/31/1997        10/29/1997;          3/16/1998          11/6/1997
                                     Frederica A..                                                       3/11/1998
43................................  Colman, Jeffrey D....               N.IL          7/31/1997  .................         10/21/1998  .................
44................................  Klein, James W.......                DDC          1/27/1998  .................         12/15/2000  .................
45................................  Freedberg, Robert A..               E.PA          4/23/1998  .................         10/21/1998  .................
46................................  Norton, Lynette......               W.PA          4/29/1998  .................         12/15/2000  .................
47................................  Davis, Legrome D.....               E.PA          7/30/1998  .................         12/15/2000  .................
48................................  Leonard, J. Rich.....               E.NC          3/24/1999  .................         12/15/2000  .................
49................................  McCarthy, Frank H....               N.OK          4/30/1999         10/26/1999         12/15/2000  .................
50................................  Simon, Kenneth 0.....               N.AL           6/6/2000  .................         12/15/2000  .................
51................................  Lim, John S. W.......                 HI           6/8/2000  .................         12/15/2000  .................
52................................  Litman, Harry Peter..               W.PA          7/27/2000  .................         12/15/2000  .................
53................................  Cercone, David S.....               W.PA          7/27/2000  .................         12/15/2000  .................
54................................  Couch, Valerie K.....               W.OK           9/7/2000  .................         12/15/2000  .................
55................................  Johnston, Marian                    E.CA           9/7/2000  .................         12/15/2000  .................
                                     McClure.
56................................  Achelpohl, Steven E..                 NE          9/12/2000  .................         12/15/2000  .................
57................................  Anderson, Richard W..                 MT          9/13/2000  .................         12/15/2000  .................
58................................  Lieberman, Stephen B.               E.PA          9/14/2000  .................         12/15/2000  .................
59................................  Hall, Melvin C.......               W.OK          10/3/2000  .................         12/15/2000  .................
60................................  Coan, Patricia A.....                 CO          5/27/1999  .................         12/15/2000  .................
61................................  Gee, Dolly M.........               C.CA          5/27/1999  .................         12/15/2000  .................
62................................  Woocher, Fredric D...               C.CA          5/27/1999         11/10/1999         12/15/2000  .................
63................................  Tusan, Gail S........               N.GA           8/3/1999  .................          3/27/2000  .................
64................................  Bell, Steven D.......               N.OH           8/5/1999  .................         12/15/2000  .................
65................................  Fields, Rhonda C.....                DDC         11/17/1999  .................         12/15/2000  .................
66................................  Fineman, S. David....               E.PA           3/9/2000  .................         12/15/2000  .................
67................................  Riegle, Linda B......                 NV          4/25/2000  .................         12/15/2000  .................
68................................  Morado, Ricardo......               S.TX          5/11/2000  .................         12/15/2000  .................
69................................  Sebelius, K. Gary....                 KS           6/6/2000  .................         12/15/2000  .................
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Iowa.
  Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, we are about to vote on our fourth 
circuit court nominee this week, and I am glad to speak in support of 
the nomination of Professor Bibas to serve on the Third Circuit Court 
of Appeals. That court sits in Philadelphia. Professor Bibas is a 
highly qualified nominee. His background as a well-regarded legal 
scholar and Supreme Court advocate will serve him well as a judge on 
that circuit.
  Additionally, Professor Bibas received a rare, unanimously ``well 
qualified'' rating from the American Bar Association. My Democratic 
colleagues on the Judiciary Committee have expressed to me that the 
ABA's ratings are very important to their evaluation of nominees. Yet 
all of the Democratic members of the committee voted against Professor 
Bibas in the committee, despite his having received the highest rating 
possible. This is consistent with their votes against Professor Amy 
Barrett, Justice Joan Larsen and Justice Allison Eid, all of whom 
received ``well qualified'' ratings. It appears that my Democratic 
colleagues don't actually treat the ABA's ratings as particularly 
important when it comes right down to practice.
  Professor Bibas is the son of a Greek immigrant who came to this 
country after surviving the Nazi occupation of Greece. He boasts 
impressive academic credentials. He graduated from Columbia University 
at the age of 19. He then received degrees from the University of 
Oxford and Yale Law School. After law school, Professor Bibas clerked 
for Judge Patrick Higginbotham of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 
Fifth Circuit and then for Justice Anthony Kennedy of the U.S. Supreme 
Court.
  Following these prestigious clerkships, Professor Bibas became an 
assistant U.S. attorney in the Southern District of New York. His 
experience as a prosecutor gave him a firsthand view of the problems 
and injustices in the American criminal justice system. He decided to 
pursue a career as an academic, focusing then on improving the criminal 
justice system for all involved.

  Professor Bibas's first stint as a professor was in my home State of 
Iowa at the University of Iowa College of Law. He taught criminal law 
and procedure there for 5 years. We were certainly lucky to have a 
professor of his caliber. Professor Bibas then took a position on the 
faculty of the University of Pennsylvania Law School, where he has been 
teaching since.

[[Page S6988]]

  Professor Bibas has been prolific in his academic writings, 
publishing numerous articles on all aspects of criminal law. His 
academic work culminated in the publication of his book entitled ``The 
Machinery of Criminal Justice.'' That book was published in 2012. In 
this book and in many of his articles, Professor Bibas criticized the 
current model of bureaucratic ``assembly line'' justice and America's 
high incarceration rate. Much of his work is devoted to finding 
solutions to these problems. His academic work has certainly had an 
impact on the law. In fact, Professor Bibas is one of the most cited 
law professors in judicial opinions. One study shows that he is the 
15th most cited legal scholar by total judicial opinions, and he is the 
fifth most cited in the area of criminal law--not bad for a relatively 
young professor.
  Professor Bibas has also had a positive impact on colleagues and 
students. The Judiciary Committee received a letter from 121 law 
professors throughout our country representing a diverse range of 
viewpoints. These professors support Professor Bibas's nomination, 
pointing to his--and this quote comes from the letter--``influential 
contributions to criminal law and procedure scholarship,'' as well as 
his ``fair-mindedness, conscientiousness, and personal integrity.''
  Professor Bibas also received a letter in support of his nomination 
from many colleagues at the University of Pennsylvania. They stated 
that he has been ``an outstanding scholar, teacher, and colleague'' at 
Penn.
  Professor Bibas also has extensive litigation experience. He is 
currently the director of the University of Pennsylvania Law School's 
Supreme Court Clinic. In this role, he and his students have 
represented numerous litigants who could not otherwise afford top-
flight counsel. He has argued numerous cases before the Supreme Court, 
and he obtained a significant victory in the landmark case of Padilla 
v. Kentucky, which established a defendant's Sixth Amendment right to 
accurate information about deportation before pleading guilty.
  One of our Supreme Court Justices, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, in a personal 
letter to Professor Bibas that the Judiciary Committee received, called 
him one of the ``very best lawyers presenting cases to the Court.'' It 
is kind of nice, if you are considered kind of a strict 
constructionist, that you get a letter like that from one of the more 
activist members of the Supreme Court.
  Some of my Democratic colleagues criticize Professor Bibas during his 
confirmation hearing for two really isolated events in the long and 
illustrious career he has had.
  First, Democrats criticized Professor Bibas for prosecuting a minor 
theft of only $7 when he was an assistant U.S. attorney. This case took 
place nearly 20 years ago. But it was Professor Bibas's supervisor who 
made the decision to charge the defendant and, of course, required an 
underling by the name of Bibas to pursue the case even after it started 
to fall apart.
  In his hearing, Professor Bibas readily acknowledged that the 
defendant should not have been prosecuted, and the professor stated 
this to our committee:

       I learned from that mistake, and as a scholar, I have 
     dedicated my career to trying to diagnose and prevent the 
     causes of such errors in the future--inadequate Brady 
     disclosure, new prosecutor syndrome, tunnel vision, jumping 
     to conclusions, partisan mindsets. And I have testified 
     before this committee on those very issues. And so I made a 
     mistake. I apologized. I learned from it, and I have tried to 
     improve the justice system going forward.''

  Some of my colleagues have also criticized Professor Bibas for a 
single article that he wrote but never published. This article endorsed 
limited forms of corporal punishment as an alternative to lengthy 
prison sentences. But Professor Bibas reconsidered this idea soon after 
completing the article. He concluded that it was a bad idea and did not 
publish it. He completely disavowed the position in his book published 
shortly thereafter.
  When asked about corporal punishment at his hearing, Professor Bibas 
stated:

       It is wrong. It is not American. It is not something I 
     advocate. I categorically reject it.

  Additionally, Professor Bibas's position on corporal punishment was 
well-intended. He was motivated to address overly harsh and 
unproductively long prison sentences. As he said at his hearing, he 
wanted to offer an answer to the question, ``Is there some way, any 
way, we can avoid the hugely destructive effect [of imprisonment] both 
on prisoners' own lives and on the families, the friends, the 
communities?''
  In the time since Professor Bibas wrote the article, he has offered 
more creative solutions to the disruptions caused by lengthy prison 
sentences. As an example, instead of suffering through forced 
indolence, prisoners could work and develop work-related skills in 
anticipation of their release from prison.
  Professor Bibas's scholarship, as I have stated and quoted from, is a 
testimony to his devotion to the rule of law and the notion of equal 
justice before the law. It is very clear that he cares very deeply 
about how the criminal justice system impacts defendants, victims, 
families, and entire communities. As you can tell, I am very confident 
that Professor Bibas will make an excellent judge on the Third Circuit 
Court of Appeals.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Maryland.


                              North Korea

  Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, President Trump will be leaving on a 
lengthy trip to Asia. He will be visiting Japan, the Republic of Korea, 
China, the Philippines, and Vietnam. In each of those countries, we 
expect that the No. 1 national security issue that will be talked about 
is North Korea.
  North Korea's dangerous activities are certainly putting not only the 
region but the global community at risk. They have a nuclear weapons 
capability. They currently have the ability to explode a nuclear 
device. They are working on delivery systems that could very well reach 
not just the region but the United States. They are violating 
international commitments. They have done dozens of tests this year 
alone, all in violation of those international commitments.
  We have had a strong policy to try to isolate North Korea. The United 
States has led in the imposition of sanctions. We introduced this year 
and passed the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act. 
It passed this body by a 98-to-2 vote. I notice the chairman of the 
Senate Foreign Relations Committee is on the floor, and he was one of 
the strong architects of that legislation. The United Nations Security 
Council passed Resolutions Nos. 2270, 2321, and 2375. The President has 
issued Executive Order No. 13810.
  We have been asking for rigorous enforcement of sanctions. We could 
do more. One of the points I hope the President will be talking about 
during his trip is robust and rigorous enforcement of the sanctions 
that are out there. And I see there is activity taking place in the 
Banking Committee. We have legislation in the Senate Foreign Relations 
Committee. If additional sanction authority is needed, let's do that. 
That is important.
  But what additional things can we do, and what should the President 
be promoting as he visits Asia? First, let me give you a few 
unacceptable alternatives.
  We cannot lead with military intervention. The casualties could be 
astronomical. The technology to develop nuclear weapons would still 
remain. Our allies are certainly not in agreement with that policy. 
There is no congressional authority for the use of force.
  A second alternative that is not acceptable is to just continue the 
current course. North Korea is developing a delivery system that will 
threaten not just Japan and the Republic of Korea but also Guam and the 
United States. We will see an arms race if we do not effectively stop 
North Korea's nuclear program.
  President Trump's statement, in my view, made the challenges even 
more dramatic. His ``America first'' statements isolate America and 
make it more difficult for us to get the type of support we need. I 
think his reckless statements make it more likely rather than less 
likely that we will use a military option.
  What we need is a surge in diplomacy. A surge in diplomacy can very 
well start with the meeting between President Xi of China and President 
Trump of the United States. We have a

[[Page S6989]]

common agenda. Neither China nor the United States want to see a 
nuclear North Korea. Both China and the United States recognize that 
the Kim Jong Un regime in North Korea is unreliable. We are both 
looking for an off-ramp so we don't need to use a military option.
  China has the capacity to turn the pressure on North Korea through 
sanctions that could change the equation in North Korea. China and 
North Korea have a common agenda. Both want to preserve the regime of 
Kim Jong Un--Kim Jong Un for obvious reasons; China, because they do 
not want to see a unified Korean Peninsula under Western influence.
  Our objective is for North Korea to give up its nuclear weapons. 
China needs to be convinced that our objective is the same as theirs. 
With that, they could instill greater pressure on North Korea, and 
diplomacy could work.
  What should be our objective? We have to be realistic. In the short 
term, it should be containment. Freeze the current program. Stop the 
testing. Make it clear that we cannot allow these programs to continue. 
Ultimately, we want to see a nonnuclear Korean Peninsula.
  We know that in the past--the 1994 framework agreement with North 
Korea lasted for 8 years. So there is an ability to make progress, but 
we have to develop confidence between the parties.
  In conjunction with this, let me urge us not to lose sight of the 
North Korean people. Let's continue our focus on the human rights 
problems in the country. Let's work with our allies, particularly Japan 
and the Republic of Korea, and let's rigorously enforce the sanctions 
until progress is made.
  We can achieve an alternative outcome in North Korea, but it requires 
U.S. leadership, and President Trump needs to engage on that issue. We 
need confidence building, and we need to make sure that we make 
progress. Time is not on our side, but there is still time to make 
progress. Without a diplomatic surge, there are only unacceptable 
options. Our goal should be a more peaceful, stable, and prosperous 
northeast Asia community.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, all time has 
expired.
  The question is, Will the Senate advise and consent to the Bibas 
nomination?
  Mr. ALEXANDER. I ask for the yeas and nays.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a sufficient second?
  There appears to be a sufficient second.
  The clerk will call the roll.
  The assistant bill clerk called the roll.
  Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the Senator from Missouri (Mrs. 
McCaskill), the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Menendez), the Senator 
from Florida (Mr. Nelson), and the Senator from Virginia (Mr. Warner) 
are necessarily absent.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Perdue). Are there any other Senators in 
the Chamber desiring to vote?
  The result was announced--yeas 53, nays 43, as follows:

                      [Rollcall Vote No. 261 Ex.]

                                YEAS--53

     Alexander
     Barrasso
     Blunt
     Boozman
     Burr
     Capito
     Cassidy
     Cochran
     Collins
     Corker
     Cornyn
     Cotton
     Crapo
     Cruz
     Daines
     Enzi
     Ernst
     Fischer
     Flake
     Gardner
     Graham
     Grassley
     Hatch
     Heller
     Hoeven
     Inhofe
     Isakson
     Johnson
     Kennedy
     Lankford
     Lee
     Manchin
     McCain
     McConnell
     Moran
     Murkowski
     Paul
     Perdue
     Portman
     Risch
     Roberts
     Rounds
     Rubio
     Sasse
     Scott
     Shelby
     Strange
     Sullivan
     Thune
     Tillis
     Toomey
     Wicker
     Young

                                NAYS--43

     Baldwin
     Bennet
     Blumenthal
     Booker
     Brown
     Cantwell
     Cardin
     Carper
     Casey
     Coons
     Cortez Masto
     Donnelly
     Duckworth
     Durbin
     Feinstein
     Franken
     Gillibrand
     Harris
     Hassan
     Heinrich
     Heitkamp
     Hirono
     Kaine
     King
     Klobuchar
     Leahy
     Markey
     Merkley
     Murphy
     Murray
     Peters
     Reed
     Sanders
     Schatz
     Schumer
     Shaheen
     Stabenow
     Tester
     Udall
     Van Hollen
     Warren
     Whitehouse
     Wyden

                             NOT VOTING--4

     McCaskill
     Menendez
     Nelson
     Warner
  The nomination was confirmed.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Nevada.
  Mr. HELLER. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that with respect 
to the Bibas nomination, the motion to reconsider be considered made 
and laid upon the table and the President be immediately notified of 
the Senate's action.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

                          ____________________



