

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 155 (Wednesday, September 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 155 (Wednesday, September 27, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6190-S6191]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I have 10 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
majority and minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate.


           COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND TRANSPORTATION

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to hold a meeting during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, 
September 27, 2017, at 10:30 a.m. in room 253 of the Russell Senate 
Office Building.


               COMMITTEE ON ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS

  The Committee on Environment and Public Works is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, September 27, 2017, at 
10 a.m., in room 406 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building, to conduct 
a hearing entitled, ``Hearing on Forest Management to Mitigate 
Wildfires: Legislative Solutions.''


                     COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, September 27, 2017 at 10:45 a.m., 
to hold a hearing entitled ``Nominations.''

[[Page S6191]]

  



                     COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, September 27, 2017 at 2:15 p.m., to 
hold a hearing entitled ``Nominations.''


        COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY AND GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS

  The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, 
September 27, 2017, at 10 a.m., in order to conduct a hearing titled 
``Threats to the Homeland.''


                      COMMITTEE ON INDIAN AFFAIRS

  The Committee on Indian Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, September 27, 2017, in room 628 of 
the Dirksen Senate Office Building, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct an 
oversight hearing on ``The GAO Reports on Human Trafficking of Native 
Americans in the United States.''


            COMMITTEE ON SMALL BUSINESS AND ENTREPRENEURSHIP

  The Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate Wednesday, September 27, 2017 at 
3 p.m., in 428A Russell Senate Office Building to conduct a hearing 
entitled ``An Early Review of SBA's Response to the 2017 Hurricanes.''


                     COMMITTEE ON VETERANS' AFFAIRS

  The Committee on Veterans' Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, September 27, 2017, at 10 a.m., in 
SR-418, to conduct a hearing titled, ``#BeThere: What More Can Be Done 
to Prevent Veteran Suicide?''

                          ____________________



