

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 180 (Monday, November 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 180 (Monday, November 6, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7013]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  RECOGNIZING FOURTEENTH STREET SCHOOL

  Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I am delighted to commend Fourteenth 
Street School in Bangor, ME, on being named a 2017 National Blue Ribbon 
School of Excellence. Serving students from prekindergarten through the 
third grade, this outstanding school in the city I am proud to live is 
one of only 342 schools across the country to receive Blue Ribbon 
recognition from the U.S. Department of Education.
  Created in 1982, the Blue Ribbon Schools Program honors public and 
private schools that are either academically superior in their States 
or that demonstrate significant gains in student achievement. The 
schools singled out for this national recognition are models of high 
educational standards and accountability.
  The success at Fourteenth Street School is the result of two guiding 
philosophies. The first is ``meet the students where they are,'' with 
instruction and support tailored to the strengths and needs of each 
individual student. The second is ``all hands on deck,'' a call for all 
staff members to engage with students and encourage them to achieve 
their full potential.
  One of the unique features of Fourteenth Street School is the use of 
every opportunity during the school day to support learning. Whether in 
the classroom, preparing for recess, or standing in the lunchroom, 
students may be participating in a math game, reciting a rhyme, or 
singing. The entire school eats lunch together daily, and a staff 
member uses this time to read aloud to students. This focus on literacy 
even extends to physical education classes, where the PE teacher often 
reads articles from sports magazines to students.
  The impact of this dedication to individual students is evident. Over 
the last 5 years, average attendance exceeded 95 percent, and 100 
percent of students participated in at least one afterschool activity.
  Another important factor in the school's success is the emphasis on 
building strong relationships with families. Through schoolwide and 
classroom newsletters, parent meetings, parents and educators 
accelerating kids--PEAK--events, academic showcases, and, most 
important, direct communication with teachers, parents have the 
opportunity to play a significant role in their children's education.
  I applaud the administrators, teachers, staff, parents, and students 
of Fourteenth Street School. Together, they are succeeding in their 
mission to generate confidence and momentum for learning. This 
outstanding school is making a difference in the lives of its students, 
helping them to become independent, responsible learners and citizens. 
I am pleased that the U.S. Department of Education has selected 
Fourteenth Street School for this well-deserved honor, and I 
congratulate the entire school community for this outstanding 
achievement.

                          ____________________



