

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 148 (Wednesday, September 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 148 (Wednesday, September 13, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H7379]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                RECOGNIZING FORT HOOD'S 75TH ANNIVERSARY

  (Mr. WILLIAMS asked and was given permission to address the House for 
1 minute.)
  Mr. WILLIAMS. Mr. Speaker, I would like to take this time to 
recognize and honor Fort Hood on its 75th anniversary on Monday, 
September 18, 2017.
  Representing Fort Hood--one of the largest military bases in the 
world--is the greatest honor I have as the Representative of Texas' 
25th Congressional District. Known as The Great Place, it is the gold 
standard for the U.S. Army. It is composed of some of the bravest and 
most selfless people we have in this country. Located near Killeen, 
this 340-square-mile installation is invaluable to the local community.
  Home to approximately 140,000 people, this post provides economic 
relief by fostering over 12,000 civilian jobs. In a time where our 
country is finally recovering from financial turmoil, job opportunities 
are essential for the growth of this Nation.
  As a true treasure of Texas, this small but powerful area affects the 
entire State by contributing $35.4 billion to the Texas economy. Fort 
Hood is committed to those of us who are lucky enough to call it the 
Lone Star State, by providing the most employees on a single site in 
the State of Texas.
  When it comes to our Nation's national security, Fort Hood does not 
shy away. Since 2003, this post deployed and redeployed more than 
852,000 soldiers overseas. Fort Hood is made up of some of the finest 
soldiers I have ever had the opportunity to meet, and I would like to 
congratulate The Great Place on reaching its diamond anniversary--75 
years.
  Three-quarters of a century of being a fully operational, active 
military post is something we can and should be proud of. As I said 
before, Fort Hood is a special part of the 25th District, and I am 
humbled to have the opportunity to fight on behalf of these brave men 
and women each and every day in Washington.
  In God we trust.

                          ____________________



