

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 178 (Thursday, November 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 178 (Thursday, November 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6999]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

   50TH ANNIVERSARY OF MISSOURI ASSOCIATION OF STUDENT FINANCIAL AID 
                               PERSONNEL

 Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, I rise today to congratulate the 
Missouri Association of Student Financial Aid Personnel, MASFAP, which 
is celebrating its 50th anniversary. MASFAP organized in 1967 with a 
steering committee of five members. Today the association has grown to 
over 800 members. The observance of MASFAP's 50th anniversary provides 
an opportunity to recognize the work of Missouri's student financial 
aid personnel and the association's partnerships and to raise awareness 
about the affordability of a postsecondary education.
  MASFAP is a dynamic association dedicated to serving and advocating 
for practitioners, users, and providers of student financial aid 
programs. Most families and students are aware of student financial aid 
programs because they provide valuable funds to assist in the costs of 
a postsecondary education, without which many would be unable to 
achieve their education goals.
  As a former high school teacher and university president, I know how 
fortunate it is for Missouri to have so many great post-secondary 
education options. With the assistance of student financial aid 
administrators throughout Missouri, students are learning about the 
resources available to help them attend one of the great schools of 
their choice. As a result, students are getting the education and 
training they need to succeed.
  When I served as Missouri Secretary of State, I had the opportunity 
to sign the first articles of incorporation for MASFAP. Today I thank 
the association and all its members for their work and congratulate 
them on their 50th anniversary.

                          ____________________



