

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 182 (Wednesday, November 8, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 182 (Wednesday, November 8, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7106-S7107]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              VETERANS DAY

  Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, as we prepare to commemorate Veterans Day 
this weekend, I would like to offer my sincere appreciation to the 
dedicated veterans who have served our country so bravely over the 
years. Only in a great country such as ours do we have so many willing 
and able citizens who volunteer for duty. These selfless individuals 
understand the importance of protecting our country and are willing to 
give their lives to do it.
  Many of these brave men and women make the ultimate sacrifice, such 
as my own brother, Jesse Morlan Hatch who was killed in World War II. 
SSG Aaron Butler of Utah also comes to mind. Staff Sergeant Butler was 
tragically killed in the line of duty last summer while serving in 
Afghanistan. The valor of patriots like Jesse and Aaron is indicative 
of all men and women who volunteer to serve in our Armed Forces. I have 
always had a deep-rooted respect for America's servicemembers and her 
veterans.
  On behalf of the State of Utah, I would also like to express our 
humble gratitude for our Nation's veterans and active servicemembers. 
Throughout

[[Page S7107]]

this weekend, Utah will host a variety of ceremonies, all dedicated to 
celebrating our veterans. The town of Magna will be hosting its annual 
Veterans Day parade; the town of Howell will be naming its community 
center after SGT Rocky D. Payne, who was killed in Iraq in 2005; and 
the students of Granite Park Junior High School will be hosting a 
special Veterans Day assembly. With events being held all across our 
State, it is clear to see that Utahns hold our Nation's veterans in the 
highest esteem. I am honored to represent a State that honors our 
veterans.
  I would also like to personally acknowledge the city of Layton, which 
will be hosting a grand Veterans Day parade to be followed by the 
groundbreaking ceremony of a new Vietnam War memorial wall. I could not 
even begin to describe the endeavor that Mayor Bob Stevenson, the city 
of Layton, the Utah State Legislature, and so many others have 
undertaken to bring this wonderful memorial to Utah. I am grateful for 
their leadership, and I am delighted to see this memorial become a 
reality.
  I will close today by saying this: To all veterans and your families, 
thank you. Thank you for your sacrifice, for your commitment, and for 
your dedication to this Nation and its citizens. Most of all, thank you 
for your patriotism and faith in America. To our Nation's veterans we 
owe a debt of gratitude that can never be fully repaid.
  (At the request of Mr. Schumer, the following statement was ordered 
to be printed in the Record.)

                          ____________________



