

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 166 (Monday, October 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 166 (Monday, October 16, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6397-S6398]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     NATIONAL FOREST PRODUCTS WEEK

  Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, in support of National Forest Products 
Week and in my role as a cochair of the Senate Paper and Packaging 
Caucus, I would like to recognize the almost 20,000 hard-working men 
and women employed by the forest products industry in the great State 
of Arkansas.
  Arkansas is home to over 90 wood products, paper, and packaging 
manufacturing facilities that make over $8 billion in products annually 
and contribute over $1.2 billion to the State and local economies 
through wages and compensation.

[[Page S6398]]

  The forest products industry plays a valuable role in the life of 
every American, every day. From paper and packaging to wood products, 
tissue, and other personal care items, paper and wood products are at 
the heart of modern life and a modern economy. In total, the industry 
employs about 900,000 Americans nationwide and manufactures over $280 
billion in products every year. That is nearly 4 percent of the current 
U.S. manufacturing GDP.
  In addition to cochairing the Paper and Packaging Caucus, I am also a 
cochair of the Senate Recycling Caucus. In this dual capacity, I have 
seen the success the forest products industry has had in pairing 
economic growth with respect for the environment. Be it through the use 
of carbon-neutral biomass energy or the successful implementation of 
voluntary recycling programs that now reach 96 percent of Americans, 
the forest products industry is leading by example.
  Last year, I had the opportunity to see firsthand how the forest 
industry contributes to the economy of my State. Congressman Bruce 
Westerman and I visited timber-rich south Arkansas on our ``Seed to 
Sawmill'' tour. We learned about proper forest management and the 
positive environmental impacts achieved through conservation efforts. 
We also visited a seedling nursery, working private forests, state-of-
the art processing facilities, and the U.S. Forest Service's 
Experimental Forest in Crossett.
  It is clear that the forest products industry contributes a great 
deal to Arkansas and to the U.S. economy overall. That is why it is 
important for us to highlight how forest products improve our lives, 
help grow our economy, and promote healthy environmental practices.
  I urge my colleagues to join me in celebrating National Forest 
Products Week and reflect on the many ways this recyclable and 
renewable resource impacts our daily lives for the better. Thank you 
for the opportunity to recognize the hard-working professionals of the 
forest products industry in the great State of Arkansas.

                          ____________________



