

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 153 (Monday, September 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 153 (Monday, September 25, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S5884]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        TRIBUTE TO STAN WILMOTH

 Mr. HELLER. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize Stan 
Wilmoth, whose relentless commitment and service to his community makes 
us all proud to call him a fellow Nevadan.
  This month, the American Cancer Society will pay tribute to Mr. 
Wilmoth by presenting him with their first-ever ``Spirit of Hope 
Award.'' This prestigious award is given to individuals who are 
dedicated to their community, wellness, education, quality of life, and 
who advocate on behalf of the American Cancer Society.
  Mr. Wilmoth is well-deserving of this award as he has an extensive 
record of giving back to Nevada. Whether it is serving as a volunteer 
fireman in Lemmon Valley for 10 years or helping advance construction 
of the Ronald McDonald House, we are grateful for Mr. Wilmoth's many 
contributions to our community and his involvement in programs like 
Head Start. In addition to serving as a member of the Reno-Sparks 
Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Wilmoth has also held several other leadership 
board positions, including chairman of the Nevada Bankers Association 
and presenting sponsor of the American Cancer Society's annual 
fundraiser. For the past 10 years, he has been instrumental in the 
development of the Suits & Sneakers Gala, offering guidance and support 
of the American Cancer Society's mission.
  For 17 years, Mr. Wilmoth has served as president and chief executive 
officer of Heritage Bank, which serves as a lifeline in our State's 
economy. Under his leadership, Heritage Bank has played a large role in 
getting small businesses off the ground and making northern Nevada a 
better region to live, work, and raise a family. In fact, the bank 
earned the title of ``SBA Lender of the Year in Northern Nevada'' for 
the past 6 years, assisting many businesses and their families.
  Before joining Heritage, Mr. Wilmoth served as vice president, 
northern Nevada regional loan manager for Nevada State Bank, and 
assistant vice president/commercial account officer and commercial 
service officer for U.S. Bank. He also served on the Federal Reserve 
Board for Community Banks for multiple years.
  Mr. Wilmoth's dedication and community involvement in Nevada is a 
true testament to his character, and we are privileged he is one of our 
own. His commitment and hard work in the fight for a world without 
cancer is truly admirable.
  In closing, I am honored and proud to recognize Stan Wilmoth for his 
leadership and advocacy on behalf of Nevada. I congratulate him on this 
remarkable achievement and wish him the best in his future 
endeavors.

                          ____________________



