

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 206 (Monday, December 18, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 206 (Monday, December 18, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S8069]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   TRIBUTE TO MAJOR MATTHEW W. TAYLOR

  Mr. COCHRAN. Mr. President, I am pleased to commend Maj. Matthew W. 
Taylor, USAF, for his dedication to duty and service as an Air Force 
legislative fellow. Matt, a special operations pilot, was recently 
selected to be the assistant to the Vice Commander of the Special 
Operations Command, SOCOM, a post he will assume in January.
  A native of Ohio, Matt received a bachelor of arts degree in 
political science from Miami University and was commissioned as an 
officer following graduation. He earned his wings and qualified as an 
Air Force pilot following completion of undergraduate pilot training. 
Matt also has secured a master's degree in diplomacy from Norwich 
University.
  Matt has served in a broad range of assignments during his career 
with the U.S. Air Force. He has served as the deputy commander of the 
353rd Expeditionary Special Operations Group and as an MC-130P 
instructor pilot and flight commander of the 17th Special Operations 
Squadron. In addition to serving overseas in Europe, Asia, and Africa, 
Major Taylor has also been deployed in support of operations in Iraq 
and Afghanistan.
  Matt's leadership has brought great credit to the Air Force. I 
appreciate and commend his commitment to continue to serve our Nation 
in an era when pilot shortages are a growing concern for U.S. military 
leaders.
  This year, Matt was selected to be an Air Force congressional fellow 
assigned to my office. In this role, Matt has served the State of 
Mississippi and the Nation admirably. I have enjoyed the benefit of 
Matt's counsel over the past year, and my office has been privileged to 
host him.
  It is a pleasure to recognize and to thank Maj. Matthew W. Taylor for 
his exceptional service to our country. My staff and I wish him, his 
wife, Kotona, and their son Bruce, all the best as they continue their 
journey in the U.S. Air Force.

                          ____________________



