

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 150 (Monday, September 18, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 150 (Monday, September 18, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S5775-S5776]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    CONFIRMATION OF RUSSELL COLEMAN

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, on an entirely different matter, last 
week, the Senate confirmed a talented and experienced nominee with an 
impressive career in law enforcement to be the U.S. attorney for the 
Western District of Kentucky. Russell Coleman is the right person for 
the job.
  After graduating from my alma mater, the University of Kentucky 
College of Law, Russell entered public service. His wide-ranging 
experiences at the Department of Justice, the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation, the Senate, and in private practice make him 
particularly qualified for this new role.

[[Page S5776]]

  As the chief Federal law enforcement officer for the Western District 
of Kentucky, Russell will use his skills to serve the people of 
Kentucky and the United States very well. Having served as a special 
agent with the FBI, Russell understands the particular challenges 
facing law enforcement. In that role, he regularly collaborated with 
Federal, State, and local law enforcement officials on a vast array of 
issues, and he is well respected in the law enforcement community.
  For instance, Kentucky continues to struggle with the opioid 
addiction epidemic that is tearing families and communities apart. 
Russell stands ready to collaborate with stakeholders and community 
leaders to combat it. He has earned the support of the Kentucky 
Narcotics Officers' Association, which looks forward to his leadership 
on drug enforcement issues.
  Russell also worked in my office as legal counsel, helping me serve 
the people of Kentucky. With good humor and an unmatched determination, 
he advocated for the issues that were important to my constituents.
  The president of the Kentucky Fraternal Order of Police wrote to me 
in support of Russell's nomination: ``Russell was forever thoughtful, 
courteous, and a true friend to our membership.''
  Now Russell has the opportunity to serve once again.
  I congratulate him and look forward to his service to the 
Commonwealth and to the country.

                          ____________________



