

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 156 (Thursday, September 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 156 (Thursday, September 28, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H7619]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           SUICIDE PREVENTION

  (Mr. HILL asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. HILL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today during National Suicide 
Prevention Month to call attention to this tragedy that is so prevalent 
and important throughout our Nation.
  Suicide is the tenth leading cause of death in the United States, 
and, on average, there are 121 suicides per day. Far too many 
Americans, about one in five, are suffering from some form of mental 
illness, a problem that has disrupted too many families, caused too 
much violence, pain, and cost too many lives.
  In Congress, we are working together on a bipartisan basis to bring 
needed reform to our mental healthcare system through the passage of 
the 21st Century Cures Act and the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for 
American Veterans Act.
  The Central Arkansas Veterans Healthcare System, led by Dr. Margie 
Scott, is one of nine systems nationwide currently involved in the Clay 
Hunt pilot program.
  This program gives our VA employees the necessary tools to reach out 
to high-risk veterans and offer guidance while providing essential 
suicide prevention services. Dr. Scott and Central Arkansas Veterans 
Healthcare System have made over 200 community connections throughout 
Arkansas to assist our veterans.
  We all must work together and continue to move forward in addressing 
the issue of mental health and mental health access, and do what we can 
to save the lives of all American citizens and reverse this deadly 
trend of suicides.

                          ____________________



