

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 149 (Thursday, September 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 149 (Thursday, September 14, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S5738]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE SESSION

                                 ______
                                 

                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
proceed to executive session for the en bloc consideration of the 
following nominations: Executive Calendar Nos. 280, 281, 283, 284, 285, 
286, 304, 305, 306, 307, 308, 309, and 310.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
  Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The clerk will report the nominations en bloc.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read the nominations of Peter 
E. Deegan, Jr., of Iowa, to be United States Attorney for the Northern 
District of Iowa for the term of four years; Marc Krickbaum, of Iowa, 
to be United States Attorney for the Southern District of Iowa for the 
term of four years; D. Michael Dunavant, of Tennessee, to be United 
States Attorney for the Western District of Tennessee for the term of 
four years; Louis V. Franklin, Sr., of Alabama, to be United States 
Attorney for the Middle District of Alabama for the term of four years; 
Jessie K. Liu, of Virginia, to be United States Attorney for the 
District of Columbia for the term of four years; Richard W. Moore, of 
Alabama, to be United States Attorney for the Southern District of 
Alabama for the term of four years; Bart M. Davis, of Idaho, to be 
United States Attorney for the District of Idaho for the term of four 
years; Kurt G. Alme, of Montana, to be United States Attorney for the 
District of Montana for the term of four years; Donald Q. Cochran, Jr., 
of Tennessee, to be United States Attorney for the Middle District of 
Tennessee for the term of four years; Russell M. Coleman, of Kentucky, 
to be United States Attorney for the Western District of Kentucky for 
the term of four years; Brian J. Kuester, of Oklahoma, to be United 
States Attorney for the Eastern District of Oklahoma for the term of 
four years; R. Trent Shores, of Oklahoma, to be United States Attorney 
for the Northern District of Oklahoma for the term of four years; and 
Daniel J. Kaniewski, of Minnesota, to be Deputy Administrator for 
National Preparedness, Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department 
of Homeland Security.
  Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to consider the nominations en bloc.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
vote on the nominations en bloc with no intervening action or debate; 
that if confirmed, the motions to reconsider be considered made and 
laid upon the table en bloc; the President be immediately notified of 
the Senate's action; that no further motions be in order, and that any 
statements relating to the nominations be printed in the Record.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
  Without objection, it is so ordered.
  There being no further debate, the question is, Will the Senate 
advise and consent to the Deegan, Krickbaum, Dunavant, Franklin, Liu, 
Moore, Davis, Alme, Cochran, Coleman, Kuester, Shores, and Kaniewski 
nominations en bloc?
  The nominations were confirmed en bloc.

                          ____________________



