

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 209 (Thursday, December 21, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 209 (Thursday, December 21, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S8248]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]


                       TRIBUTE TO LUTHER STRANGE

  Mr. SHELBY. Mr. President, today I wish to honor my good friend and 
colleague from Alabama, Senator Luther Strange, prior to his departure 
from the U.S. Senate.
  While Luther and I have worked closely together in the Senate, our 
friendship dates back nearly four decades. Over the years, I have had 
the privilege of not only getting to know Luther, but also getting to 
know his wife, Melissa, and his two sons, Luke and Keehn.
  Even before Luther was appointed to the U.S. Senate, he and I worked 
alongside each other throughout much of our careers. When Luther was 
sworn in to fill Attorney General Sessions' seat, I was pleased to have 
him just down the hall from my office.
  As soon as Luther was sworn into the Senate, he hit the ground 
running. His camaraderie, integrity, and great attitude did not go 
unnoticed. Another thing we all quickly observed about Luther in the 
Senate was his willingness to help in any situation. He was always the 
first to volunteer, whether the task be big or small. Luther is admired 
by Members on both sides of the aisle, which is rare in Washington. He 
has made a lot of friends in the Senate and has worked in a bipartisan 
fashion.
  In addition to his work ethic and great attitude, Luther was able to 
accomplish an incredible amount legislatively in a short period of 
time. His successes include his work on the final National Defense 
Authorization Act conference negotiations, securing three littoral 
combat ships, his help in achieving the 51 votes needed to pass a once-
in-a-generation tax reform package, and helping repeal Obamacare.
  Luther's time in the Senate was cut too short. I would be remiss not 
to mention how much I, along with my Senate colleagues, have enjoyed 
his company.
  I thank Senator Strange for his time and service both to Alabama and 
our Nation here in the Senate. I wish him all the best in his future 
endeavors, and I look forward to continuing our close friendship.
  Thank you.

                          ____________________



