

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 209 (Thursday, December 21, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 209 (Thursday, December 21, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S8279]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




           NATIONAL CARBON MONOXIDE POISONING AWARENESS WEEK

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the 
Committee on the Judiciary be discharged from further consideration of 
S. Res. 327 and the Senate proceed to its immediate consideration.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The clerk will report the resolution by title.
  The legislative clerk read as follows:

       A resolution (S. Res. 327) designating the week of November 
     5 through 12, 2017, as ``National Carbon Monoxide Poisoning 
     Awareness Week.''

  There being no objection, the Senate proceeded to consider the 
resolution.
  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, today we are adopting S. Res. 327, the 
National Carbon Monoxide Poisoning Awareness Week resolution. In 2015 I 
sponsored a similar resolution, National Carbon Monoxide Poisoning 
Awareness Month, which was inspired by the story and memory of Amanda 
Hansen. Ms. Hansen was a 16-year-old, living in West Seneca, NY, when 
she tragically lost her life to carbon monoxide poisoning while 
attending a sleepover at a friend's home. Her heartbreaking story 
focused attention on this issue and spurred action to prevent future 
deaths from exposure to this deadly gas. As a long supporter of this 
resolution, I believe that every home across our great Nation should 
have carbon monoxide alarms installed that can detect and prevent 
carbon monoxide poisoning, a silent and odorless killer. By bringing 
awareness to carbon monoxide poisoning and reminding our fellow 
Americans to diligently check their home-detection systems, Americans 
can take the necessary actions to ensure the safety of their loved 
ones.
  I again send my deepest condolences to the Hansen family for their 
loss and to the many American families who have suffered from the 
passing of their loved ones due to carbon monoxide poisoning.
  With the help of Amanda's spirit, I will continue to fight for 
congressional action to help prevent future tragedies. Today I stand 
proud to be a Member of a body that unanimously supports the adoption 
of National Carbon Monoxide Poisoning Awareness Week.
  Mr. McCONNELL. I further ask unanimous consent that the resolution be 
agreed to, the preamble be agreed to, and the motions to reconsider be 
considered made and laid upon the table with no intervening action or 
debate.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The resolution (S. Res. 327) was agreed to.
  The preamble was agreed to.
  (The resolution, with its preamble, is printed in the Record of 
November 9, 2017, under ``Submitted Resolutions.'')

                          ____________________



