

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 178 (Thursday, November 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 178 (Thursday, November 2, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H8423]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   CHIP AND COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTERS

  (Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana asked and was given permission to address 
the House for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak in favor 
of H.R. 3922, the Community Health and Medical Professionals Improve 
Our Nation Act. This legislation reauthorizes the Children's Health 
Insurance Program--or CHIP, as we know it--as well as funding for 
community health centers in a fiscally responsible manner.
  These programs have proven to be a valuable asset for many of the 
people in this country and many of the constituents that I have back 
home in Louisiana who don't qualify for Medicaid but still need 
assistance in accessing affordable health insurance.
  In Louisiana alone, insurance providers have projected that rates 
will increase substantially next year as healthcare options continue to 
dwindle. For that reason, many Americans are choosing to forgo 
healthcare coverage altogether rather than suffer under the weight of 
the new, increased costs.
  In times of high uncertainty in our healthcare system due to 
ObamaCare, this legislation makes meaningful reforms to ensure the most 
vulnerable among us, our children, remain protected.
  The Community Health Center Fund has proven to be a critical resource 
for Louisiana's Fourth Congressional District by delivering much-needed 
resources to my local community health centers.
  I just want to say this program, in particular, is vitally important 
for the safety and security of our children. Republicans in Congress 
have worked tirelessly to draft this legislation to ensure that this 
bill maintains important safeguards for our children and families and 
protects their access to critical care.

                          ____________________



