

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 172 (Wednesday, October 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 172 (Wednesday, October 25, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6819-S6820]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I have 8 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:

[[Page S6820]]

  



            Committee Commerce, Science, and Transportation

  The Committee Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, October 25, 2017, 
at 10 a.m., in room SR-253 to conduct a hearing entitled ``The 
Commercial Satellite Industry: What's Up and What's on the Horizon.''


               Committee on Environment and Public Works

  The Committee on Environment and Public Works is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, October 25, 2017, at 10 
a.m., in room SD-406 to conduct a hearing on the following nominations: 
Michael Dourson, of Ohio, to be Assistant Administrator for Toxic 
Substances, and William L. Wehrum, of Delaware, Matthew Z. Leopold, of 
Florida, and David Ross, of Wisconsin, each to be an Assistant 
Administrator, all of the Environmental Protection Agency, Paul 
Trombino III, of Wisconsin, to be Administrator of the Federal Highway 
Administration, Department of Transportation, and Jeffery Martin Baran, 
of Virginia, to be a Member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.


               Committee on Environment and Public Works

  The Committee on Environment and Public Works is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, October 25, 2017, at 10 
a.m., in room SD-406 to conduct a hearing entitled ``The Wildfire 
Prevention and Mitigation Act of 2017.''


                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, October 25, 2017, at 10 a.m., to 
hold a hearing entitled ``Nigeria Security Update.''


                      Committee on Indian Affairs

  The Committee on Indian Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, October 25, 2017, at 2:30 p.m., in 
room SD-628 to conduct a hearing on: S.1223, Klamath Tribe Judgment 
Fund Repeal Act.


                      Committee on Indian Affairs

  The Committee on Indian Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, October 25, 2017, at 2:30 p.m., in 
room SD-628 to conduct a hearing on: S.1870, Securing urgent resources 
vital to Indian Empowerment Act 2017; S.1953, Reauthorization of the 
Tribal Law and Order Act of 2010; and S.1942, to direct the Attorney 
General to review, revise, and develop law enforcement and justice 
protocols appropriate to address missing and murdered Indians.


                     Committee on Veterans' Affairs

  The Committee on Veterans' Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, October 25, 2017, off the Senate 
floor to conduct a hearing on nominations.


                       Special Committee on Aging

  The Special Committee on Aging is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, October 25, 2017, at 2:30 p.m., in 
room SD-562 to conduct a hearing entitled ``Working and Aging with 
Disabilities: From School to Retirement.''

                          ____________________



