

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 159 (Wednesday, October 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 159 (Wednesday, October 4, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H7760-H7761]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    WELCOMING IMAM ABDULLAH ANTEPLI

  The SPEAKER. Without objection, the gentleman from North Carolina 
(Mr. Price) is recognized for 1 minute.
  There was no objection.
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I rise to introduce today's 
guest chaplain, my friend, Imam Abdullah Antepli.
  Imam Antepli has been a pioneer in Muslim Campus Ministry, serving 
since 2003, in chaplaincy roles at Wesleyan University, Hartford 
Seminary, and Duke University. He was also a founding member of the 
Muslim Chaplains' Association.
  During his time in the chaplaincy, Imam Antepli counseled students 
and adults of all faiths and provided an Islamic perspective to 
discussions of faith, spirituality, social justice, peace, and cultural 
exchange. He effectively built bridges and promoted an understanding 
across religious and cultural divides. That was his mission, and it 
continues to be his mission to this day.

[[Page H7761]]

  Imam Antepli's leadership roles at Duke University currently include 
chief representative of Muslim affairs at the Colleges of Arts and 
Sciences and senior fellow in the Office of Civic Engagement. He has 
also served as associate director of the Duke Islamic Studies Center. 
Imam Antepli also serves as senior fellow of the Jewish-Muslim 
Relations at the Shalom Hartman Institute in Jerusalem.
  He joined Secretary John Kerry's Office of Faith-Based Community 
Initiatives and Secretary Hillary Clinton's religion and foreign policy 
team to bring a religious perspective to major foreign policy issues. 
He traveled around the world as an informal ambassador to engage on 
issues of religious diplomacy.
  I am honored to welcome Imam Antepli back to the House of 
Representatives. He is a prophetic voice for peace and justice, an 
engaging teacher and counselor, a gifted interpreter of his faith, and 
an effective promoter not merely of interfaith tolerance, but of 
positive engagement.
  I am happy to count him as a friend and, along with my colleagues, 
wish to express appreciation for his words of inspiration today.

                          ____________________



