

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 200 (Thursday, December 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 200 (Thursday, December 7, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7898]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      NOMINATION OF JOSEPH BALASH

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, in addition to our important work on 
tax reform and to fund the government, this week the Senate is also 
continuing our efforts to confirm President Trump's nominees to his 
administration.
  Soon the Senate will consider the nomination of Joseph Balash to 
serve as Assistant Secretary of the Interior for Land and Minerals 
Management. Through his career in both State government and as the 
Alaska commissioner of natural resources and his service here in the 
U.S. Senate, Mr. Balash has shown his talent and passion for affordable 
sources of energy and environmental protection.
  The Alaska Department of Natural Resources manages one of the largest 
portfolios of land, water, oil, gas, renewables, timber, and minerals 
in the world. Mr. Balash's leadership of the department required 
collaboration with many diverse stakeholders and a dedication to the 
protection of Alaska's natural beauty. He worked closely with the 
Interior Department and the commissioner, and he has the skills 
necessary to fulfill this leadership role at the Department.
  As the Assistant Secretary, Mr. Balash will be responsible for many 
of the Interior Department's critical functions, including the 
management of all Federal lands and waters, the management of their 
associated resources, and the appropriate regulation of surface coal 
mining. I look forward to working with Mr. Balash on many of these 
issues, especially those important to the coal miners in my home State 
of Kentucky.
  I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this nomination.

                          ____________________



