

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 181 (Tuesday, November 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 181 (Tuesday, November 7, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7058]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   RECOGNIZING EDEN ELEMENTARY SCHOOL

  Mr. DONNELLY. Mr. President, today, I wish to recognize Eden 
Elementary School of Greenfield, IN, for being named a 2017 National 
Blue Ribbon School by the U.S. Department of Education.
  Established in 1982, the National Blue Ribbon Schools Program 
recognizes schools that have demonstrated a vision of educational 
excellence for all students, regardless of their social or economic 
background. Since its inception, this program has allowed schools in 
every State to gain recognition for educational accomplishments, 
particularly in closing the achievement gaps among students.
  Eden Elementary School has continually distinguished itself as a top-
performing school in Indiana. For the last 4 years, Eden Elementary has 
been named a Four Star School and named an A-rated school by the 
Indiana Department of Education for 6 consecutive years.
  Eden Elementary attributes much of its success to its effective 
implementation of the professional learning community model. Teachers 
are encouraged to focus on higher order thinking, integrating 
technology, and collaboration with math and reading instructional 
coaches. This model also allows teachers to work on targeted areas to 
improve an individual student's performance, which is contributing to 
the academic success of students. In addition, this interactive model 
enables teachers to share resources and ask questions to ensure the 
curriculum is being met across grade levels.
  Beyond strong academics, Eden Elementary also prides itself on its 
character education program. This starts with Eden's Eagle 
Expectations--three rules: students should be respectful, responsible, 
and ready to learn. The school also promotes healthy habits by 
instilling in students the importance of considering the needs of 
others, listening first, and working together.
  I am proud to recognize previous Eden Elementary School principal 
Devon Marine and current principal Melia Hammons, the entire staff, the 
student body, and their families. The effort and dedication you put 
into the education of these young people have led not only to this 
prestigious recognition but will benefit you and the Greenfield 
community well into the future.
  On behalf of the citizens of Indiana, I congratulate Eden Elementary, 
and I wish the students and staff continued success in the future.

                          ____________________



