

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 158 (Tuesday, October 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 158 (Tuesday, October 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6285-S6286]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      TAIWAN'S 106TH NATIONAL DAY

  Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, a week from today, on October 10, the 
Taiwanese people will celebrate their 106th Taiwanese National Day. I 
would like to take a few minutes to congratulate my Taiwanese friends 
on this important occasion.
  Taiwan has long been a trusted friend of the United States and a 
valuable partner in the increasingly important Asia-Pacific region.
  Taiwan is hugely important to Oregon. It is also one of Oregon's 
largest trading partners and a big export market for Oregon products 
like grain. Portland's annual Grand Floral Parade and Rose Festival 
host delegations from Taiwan. Portland, OR, and Kaohsiung, Taiwan, are 
sister cities.
  These ties are both broad and deep, as I saw myself when I visited 
Taipei several years ago.
  That was more than a year before Taiwan's historic 2016 election, but 
the Taiwanese people's commitment to democracy was already very much on 
display.

[[Page S6286]]

  Because our people share values like freedom, respect for human 
dignity, and entrepreneurship, I am honored today to reaffirm the U.S.-
Taiwan relationship.
  I wish my friends, the Taiwanese people, a wonderful 106th National 
Day and a fortuitous year ahead.
  Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. President, today I wish to honor the people and 
leaders of Taiwan on their National Day to take place on October 10. 
The United States and Taiwan have a long history of mutual trade and 
friendship that has promoted prosperity and security on both sides of 
the Pacific. The United States-Taiwan bilateral relationship continues 
to grow based on our shared democratic values and common strategic 
interests.
  I urge my colleagues to join me in congratulating the people of 
Taiwan on their success and thanking them for their continued efforts 
to work with the United States on economic growth and security 
cooperation. The people of both the United States and Taiwan have much 
to celebrate.

                          ____________________



