

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 187 (Wednesday, November 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 187 (Wednesday, November 15, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9267]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




       RECOGNIZING THREE NATIONAL BLUE RIBBON SCHOOLS IN MICHIGAN

  (Mr. BISHOP of Michigan asked and was given permission to address the 
House for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. BISHOP of Michigan. Mr. Speaker, I am honored to be here today to 
recognize three National Blue Ribbon schools in my district.
  Each year, the Department of Education recognizes some of the top 
schools from across the United States. The Blue Ribbon award is a 
remarkable achievement that recognizes the outstanding work done by 
exceptional educators and the hard work of dedicated students.
  I would like to congratulate Hamlin Elementary School; Brewster 
Elementary School; and my own alma mater, Rochester Adams High School, 
for being recognized as being some of the best educational institutions 
there are.
  I know this personally, as two of my children attend Rochester Adams 
High School. From my experience with these schools, what sets them 
apart is the teachers don't wait to generate enthusiasm for learning. 
Each and every student is empowered to do things for themselves, to 
take on challenges, to push their minds, and to think of things in 
different ways.
  All of these schools are exceptional and are filled with the love of 
learning and are devoted to preparing students for all stages of life. 
All three schools serve the Rochester community and my hometown of 
Rochester.
  Mr. Speaker, congratulations again to all these outstanding schools. 
Their selfless devotion to their students is something for which we all 
can take to heart. Our children are our future, and these Blue Ribbon 
schools are committed to making it a bright one.

                          ____________________



