

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 188 (Thursday, November 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 188 (Thursday, November 16, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7293-S7294]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

         TRIBUTE TO PETTY OFFICER SECOND CLASS TERENCE PARSONS

 Mr. CRAPO. Mr. President, today I wish to honor PO2 Terence 
Parsons of Genesee, ID, whom the United Service Organization, USO has 
recognized as the USO's Sailor of the Year for 2017.
  Terence Parsons took action to assist two motorists involved in car 
accidents and marines involved in a mass casualty situation. The USO 
explained, ``Displaying unselfish devotion and great heroism, Terence 
Parsons, a Navy corpsman, put himself in harm's way to assist members 
of the community. While off duty on two separate occasions, he 
witnessed car accidents that caused potentially life-threatening 
injuries to the victims involved. With little thought of his own 
safety, Parsons responded by providing lifesaving treatment.'' The USO 
further commended Terence Parsons for his response to a mass casualty 
event of 18 marines suffering multiple injuries sustained during U.S.S. 
Oak Hill U.S.S. Kearsarge amphibious warfare qualifications. Terence 
Parsons' quick action was pivotal in preventing further injury and 
saved numerous lives.
  Terence joined the U.S. Navy in 2011 and credits the values, 
including a respect for hard work and teamwork, he obtained growing up 
in Genesee and the support of his family, command and friends with 
enabling his military success. Terence Parsons has also received many 
other recognitions for his

[[Page S7294]]

distinguished service. These honors include the Navy and Marine Corps 
Commendation Medal and the Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal. 
Congratulations, PO2 Terrence Parsons, on receiving this recognition, 
and thank you for your exceptional service on behalf of our Nation. You 
and the outstanding servicemembers you serve alongside are true assets 
to our communities, State, and Nation. I commend you on your 
achievements and wish you continued success.

                          ____________________



