

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 144 (Thursday, September 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 144 (Thursday, September 7, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S5063-S5076]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           TEXT OF AMENDMENTS

  SA 810. Mr. CARDIN (for himself and Mr. McCain) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 2810, to 
authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and for 
defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle D of title XII, add the following:

     SEC. __. CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW AND CONTINUED APPLICABILITY OF 
                   SANCTIONS UNDER THE SERGEI MAGNITSKY RULE OF 
                   LAW ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 2012.

       Section 216(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Russia Sanctions Review Act 
     of 2017 (part 1 of subtitle A of title II of Public Law 115-
     44) is amended--
       (1) in subclause (III), by striking ``; and'' and inserting 
     a semicolon; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following new subclause:

       ``(IV) the Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law Accountability Act 
     of 2012 (title IV of Public Law 112-208; 22 U.S.C. 5811 
     note); and''.

                                 ______
                                 
  SA 811. Mr. CARDIN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle F of title XII, add the following:

     SEC. 1273. REPORT ON EFFECTS ON DIPLOMATIC, ECONOMIC, AND 
                   NATIONAL SECURITY INTERESTS OF THE UNITED 
                   STATES OF WITHDRAWAL FROM THE PARIS ACCORDS.

       (a) Report Required.--Not later than one year after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State 
     shall, in coordination with the Secretary of Defense, submit 
     to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the 
     effects on United States diplomatic, economic, and national 
     security interests if the United States withdraws from the 
     Paris Accords.
       (b) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified 
     annex.
       (c) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' 
     means--
       (1) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on 
     Armed Services of the Senate; and
       (2) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on 
     Armed Services of the House of Representatives.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 812. Mr. GRAHAM submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       Strike section 812.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 813. Mr. GRAHAM submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

     SEC. __. OFF-SHORE PROCUREMENT RATE FOR FOREIGN MILITARY 
                   FINANCING PROVIDED TO ISRAEL.

       Notwithstanding any other provision of law, regulation, or 
     memorandum of understanding, with respect to military 
     assistance provided to Israel pursuant to section 23 of the 
     Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2763, relating to Foreign 
     Military Financing Program), the off-shore procurement rate 
     shall be not less than 26.3 percent from fiscal years 2019 
     through 2028.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 814. Mr. GRAHAM submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       Strike section 817.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 815. Mr. GRAHAM submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

     SEC. __. PERMITTING MACHINE ROOM-LESS ELEVATORS IN DEPARTMENT 
                   OF DEFENSE FACILITIES.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall issue 
     modifications to all relevant construction and facilities 
     specifications to ensure that machine room-less elevators 
     (MRLs) are not prohibited in buildings and facilities 
     throughout the Department of Defense, including modifications 
     to the Unified Facilities Guide Specifications (UFGS), the 
     Naval Facilities Engineering Command Interim Technical 
     Guidance, and the Army Corps of Engineers Engineering and 
     Construction Bulletin.
       (b) Conforming to Best Practices.--In addition to the 
     modifications required under subsection (a), the Secretary 
     may issue further modifications to conform generally with 
     commercial best practices as reflected in the safety code for 
     elevators and escalators as issued by the American Society of 
     Mechanical Engineers.
       (c) Deadlines.--The Secretary shall promulgate interim MRL 
     standards not later than 180 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, and shall issue final and formal MRL 
     specifications not later than 1 year after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act.
       (d) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall issue a report to 
     the congressional defense committees on the integration and 
     utilization of MRLs, including information on quantity, 
     location, problems, and successes.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 816. Mr. PAUL (for Mr. McConnell) proposed an amendment to the 
bill H.R. 601, to enhance the transparency and accelerate the impact of 
assistance provided under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to promote 
quality basic education in developing countries, to better enable such 
countries to achieve universal access to quality basic education and 
improved learning outcomes, to eliminate duplication and waste, and for 
other purposes; as follows:

       At the end add the following:
       Notwithstanding any other provision in this Act:
       (1) no supplemental appropriation shall be made to the 
     ``Community Development Fund'';
       (2) the ``Disaster Relief Fund'' shall be increased by 
     $7,400,000,000,
       (3) $15,250,000,000 of unobligated funds previously made 
     available to the United States Agency for International 
     Development shall be rescinded; and
       (4) The emergency designations in Division B in this Act 
     shall have no force or effect.

[[Page S5064]]

  

                                 ______
                                 
  SA 817. Mr. McCONNELL proposed an amendment to amendment SA 816 
proposed by Mr. Paul (for Mr. McConnell) to the bill H.R. 601, to 
enhance the transparency and accelerate the impact of assistance 
provided under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to promote quality 
basic education in developing countries, to better enable such 
countries to achieve universal access to quality basic education and 
improved learning outcomes, to eliminate duplication and waste, and for 
other purposes; as follows:

       At the end add the following.
       ``This Act shall take effect 2 days after the date of 
     enactment.''
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 818. Mr. McCONNELL proposed an amendment to amendment SA 817 
proposed by Mr. McConnell to the amendment SA 816 proposed by Mr. Paul 
(for Mr. McConnell) to the bill H.R. 601, to enhance the transparency 
and accelerate the impact of assistance provided under the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 to promote quality basic education in developing 
countries, to better enable such countries to achieve universal access 
to quality basic education and improved learning outcomes, to eliminate 
duplication and waste, and for other purposes; as follows:

       Strike ``2'' and insert ``3''
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 819. Mr. PORTMAN (for himself and Mr. Blumenthal) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 2810, to 
authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and for 
defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       Strike sections 1243 through 1250 and insert the following:

     SEC. 1243. EXTENSION OF UKRAINE SECURITY ASSISTANCE 
                   INITIATIVE.

       (a) Extension.--Subsection (h) of section 1250 of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 
     (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1068), as amended by section 
     1237 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2494), is further 
     amended by striking ``December 31, 2018'' and inserting 
     ``December 31, 2020''.
       (b) Funding for Fiscal Year 2018.--Subsection (f) of such 
     section 1250, as added by subsection (a) of such section 
     1237, is further amended by adding at the end the following 
     new paragraph:
       ``(3) For fiscal year 2018, $500,000,000.''.
       (c) Availability of Funds.--Subsection (c) of such section 
     1250, as amended by subsection (c) of such section 1237, is 
     further amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting after ``pursuant to 
     subsection (f)(2)'' the following: ``, or more than 
     $250,000,000 of the funds available for fiscal year 2018 
     pursuant to subsection (f)(3),'';
       (2) in paragraph (2)--
       (A) in the first sentence--
       (i) by inserting ``with respect to the fiscal year 
     concerned'' after ``is a certification''; and
       (ii) by striking ``and improvement in transparency, 
     accountability, and potential opportunities for privatization 
     in the defense industrial sector'' and inserting 
     ``sustainment, inventory management practices, progress in 
     improving the security of proprietary or sensitive foreign 
     defense technology''; and
       (B) in the second sentence, by inserting after ``additional 
     action is needed'' the following: ``and a description of the 
     methodology used to evaluate whether Ukraine has made 
     progress in defense institutional reforms relative to 
     previously established goals and objectives''; and
       (3) in paragraph (3)--
       (A) by inserting ``or 2018'' after ``in fiscal year 2017''; 
     and
       (B) by striking ``in paragraph (2), such funds may be used 
     in that fiscal year'' and inserting ``in paragraph (2) with 
     respect to such fiscal year, such funds may be used in such 
     fiscal year''.

     SEC. 1244. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY ON TRAINING FOR EASTERN 
                   EUROPEAN NATIONAL SECURITY FORCES IN THE COURSE 
                   OF MULTILATERAL EXERCISES.

       (a) Extension.--Subsection (h) of section 1251 of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (10 
     U.S.C. 2282 note) is amended--
       (1) by striking ``September 30, 2018'' and inserting 
     ``December 31, 2020''; and
       (2) by striking ``fiscal years 2016 through 2018'' and 
     inserting ``fiscal year 2016 through calendar year 2020''.
       (b) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--Such section is 
     further amended--
       (1) by striking ``military'' each place it appears and 
     inserting ``security'';
       (2) in subsection (e), by striking ``that'' and inserting 
     ``than''; and
       (3) in subsection (f), by striking ``section 2282'' and 
     inserting ``chapter 16''.

     SEC. 1245. SECURITY ASSISTANCE FOR BALTIC NATIONS FOR JOINT 
                   PROGRAM FOR RESILIENCY AND DETERRENCE AGAINST 
                   AGGRESSION.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense may, with the 
     concurrence of the Secretary of State, conduct or support a 
     joint program of the Baltic nations to improve their 
     resilience against and build their capacity to deter 
     aggression by the Russian Federation.
       (b) Joint Program.--For purposes of subsection (a), a joint 
     program of the Baltic nations may be either of the following:
       (1) A program jointly agreed by the Baltic nations that 
     builds interoperability among those countries.
       (2) An agreement for the joint procurement by the Baltic 
     nations of defense articles or services using assistance 
     provided pursuant to subsection (a).
       (c) Participation of Other Countries.--Any country other 
     than a Baltic nation may participate in the joint program 
     described in subsection (a), but only using funds of such 
     country.
       (d) Limitation on Amount.--The total amount of assistance 
     provided pursuant to subsection (a) in fiscal year 2018 may 
     not exceed $100,000,000.
       (e) Funding.--Amounts for assistance provided pursuant to 
     subsection (a) shall be derived from amounts authorized to be 
     appropriated by this Act and available for the European 
     Deterrence Initiative (EDI).
       (f) Baltic Nations Defined.--In this section, the term 
     ``Baltic nations'' means the following:
       (1) Estonia.
       (2) Latvia.
       (3) Lithuania.

     SEC. 1246. ANNUAL REPORT ON MILITARY AND SECURITY 
                   DEVELOPMENTS INVOLVING THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION.

       Section 1245(b) of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' 
     McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3566), as most recently 
     amended by section 1235(a) of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 
     130 Stat. 2490), is further amended--
       (1) by redesignating paragraphs (14) through (20) as 
     paragraphs (15) through (21), respectively; and
       (2) by inserting after paragraph (13) the following new 
     paragraph (14):
       ``(14) An assessment of Russia's hybrid warfare strategy 
     and capabilities, including--
       ``(A) Russia's information warfare strategy and 
     capabilities, including the use of misinformation, 
     disinformation, and propaganda in social and traditional 
     media;
       ``(B) Russia's financing of political parties, think tanks, 
     media organizations, and academic institutions;
       ``(C) Russia's malicious cyber activities;
       ``(D) Russia's use of coercive economic tools, including 
     sanctions, market access, and differential pricing, 
     especially in energy exports; and
       ``(E) Russia's use of criminal networks and corruption to 
     achieve political objectives.''.

     SEC. 1247. ANNUAL REPORT ON ATTEMPTS OF THE RUSSIAN 
                   FEDERATION TO PROVIDE DISINFORMATION AND 
                   PROPAGANDA TO MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES BY 
                   SOCIAL MEDIA.

       (a) Annual Report Required.--Not later than March 31 each 
     year, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees a report on attempts by the 
     Russian Federation, or any foreign person acting as an agent 
     of or on behalf of the Russian Federation, during the 
     preceding year to knowingly disseminate Russian Federation-
     supported disinformation or propaganda, through social media 
     applications or related Internet-based means, to members of 
     the Armed Forces with probable intent to cause injury to the 
     United States or advantage the Government of the Russian 
     Federation.
       (b) Form.--Each report under this section shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
     annex.

     SEC. 1248. SUPPORT OF EUROPEAN DETERRENCE INITIATIVE TO DETER 
                   RUSSIAN AGGRESSION.

       (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
       (1) Military exercises, such as Exercise Nifty Nugget and 
     Exercise Reforger during the Cold War, have historically made 
     important contributions to testing operational concepts, 
     technologies, and leadership approaches; identifying limiting 
     factors in the execution of operational plans and appropriate 
     corrective action; and bolstering deterrence against 
     adversaries by demonstrating United States military 
     capabilities.
       (2) Military exercises with North Atlantic Treaty 
     Organization (NATO) allies enhance the interoperability and 
     strategic credibility of the alliance.
       (3) The increase in conventional, nuclear, and hybrid 
     threats by the Russian Federation against the security 
     interests of the United States and allies in Europe requires 
     substantial and sustained investment to improve United States 
     combat capability in Europe.
       (4) The decline of a permanent United States military 
     presence in Europe in recent years increases the likelihood 
     the United States will rely on being able to flow forces from 
     the continental United States to the European theater in the 
     event of a major contingency.
       (5) Senior military leaders, including the Commander of 
     United States Transportation Command, have warned that a 
     variety of increasingly advanced capabilities, especially

[[Page S5065]]

     the proliferation of anti-access, area denial (A2/AD) 
     capabilities, have given adversaries of the United States the 
     ability to challenge the freedom of movement of the United 
     States military in all domains from force deployment to 
     employment to disrupt, delay, or deny operations.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that, 
     to enhance the European Deterrence Initiative and bolster 
     deterrence against Russian aggression, the United States, 
     together with North Atlantic Treaty Organization allies and 
     other European partners, should demonstrate its resolve and 
     ability to meet its commitments under Article V of the North 
     Atlantic Treaty through appropriate military exercises with 
     an emphasis on participation of United States forces based in 
     the continental United States and testing strategic and 
     operational logistics and transportation capabilities.
       (c) Report.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than March 1, 2018, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
     defense committees a report setting forth the following:
       (A) An analysis of the challenges to the ability of the 
     United States to flow significant forces from the continental 
     United States to the European theater in the event of a major 
     contingency.
       (B) The plans of the Department of Defense, including the 
     conduct of military exercises, to address such challenges.
       (2) Form.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
     annex.

     SEC. 1249. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THE EUROPEAN DETERRENCE 
                   INITIATIVE.

       It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) the European Deterrence Initiative will bolster efforts 
     to deter further Russian aggression by providing resources 
     to--
       (A) train and equip the military forces of North Atlantic 
     Treaty Organization (NATO) and non-North Atlantic Treaty 
     Organization partners in order to improve responsiveness, 
     expand expeditionary capability, and strengthen combat 
     effectiveness across the spectrum of security environments;
       (B) enhance the indications and warning, interoperability, 
     and logistics capabilities of Allied and partner military 
     forces to increase their ability to respond to external 
     aggression, defend sovereignty and territorial integrity, and 
     preserve regional stability;
       (C) improve the agility and flexibility of military forces 
     required to address threats across the full spectrum of 
     domains and effectively operate in a wide array of coalition 
     operations across diverse global environments from North 
     Africa and the Middle East to Eastern Europe and the Arctic; 
     and
       (D) mitigate potential gaps forming in the areas of 
     information warfare, Anti-Access Area Denial, and force 
     projection;
       (2) investments that support the security and stability of 
     Europe, and that assist European nations in further 
     developing their security capabilities, are in the long-term 
     vital national security interests of the United States; and
       (3) funds for such efforts should be authorized and 
     appropriated in the base budget of the Department of Defense 
     in order to ensure continued and planned funding to address 
     long-term stability in Europe, reassure the European allies 
     and partners of the United States, and deter further Russian 
     aggression.

     SEC. 1250. ENHANCEMENT OF UKRAINE SECURITY ASSISTANCE 
                   INITIATIVE.

       Section 1250(b) of National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 126 Stat. 1068), as 
     amended by section 1237(b) of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 
     130 Stat. 2495), is further amended by adding at the end the 
     following new paragraphs:
       ``(12) Treatment of wounded Ukrainian soldiers in the 
     United States in medical treatment facilities through the 
     Secretarial Designee Program, including transportation, 
     lodging, meals, and other appropriate non-medical support in 
     connection with such treatment, and education and training 
     for Ukrainian healthcare specialists such that they can 
     provide continuing care and rehabilitation services for 
     wounded Ukrainian soldiers.
       ``(13) Air defense and coastal defense radars.
       ``(14) Naval mine and counter-mine capabilities.
       ``(15) Littoral-zone and coastal defense vessels.''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 820. Mr. TILLIS submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
       At the end of subtitle A of title V, add the following:

     SEC. ___. MODIFICATION OF DEADLINE FOR SUBMITTAL BY OFFICERS 
                   OF WRITTEN COMMUNICATIONS TO PROMOTION 
                   SELECTION BOARDS ON MATTERS OF IMPORTANCE TO 
                   THEIR SELECTION.

       (a) Officers on Active-duty List.--Section 614(b) of title 
     10, United States Code, is amended by striking ``the day'' 
     and inserting ``10 calendar days''.
       (b) Officers in Reserve Active-status.--Section 14106 of 
     such title is amended in the second sentence by striking 
     ``the day'' and inserting ``10 calendar days''.
       (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section 
     shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, 
     and shall apply with respect to promotion selection boards 
     convened on or after that date.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 821. Mr. YOUNG (for himself and Mr. Donnelly) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 2810, to 
authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and for 
defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle D of title XVI, add the following:

     SEC. 1641. REPORT ON INTEGRATION OF MODERNIZATION AND 
                   SUSTAINMENT OF NUCLEAR TRIAD.

       (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
       (1) On January 27, 2017, President Donald Trump issued a 
     Presidential Memorandum on Rebuilding the United States Armed 
     Forces, which emphasized the need for a ``modern, robust, 
     flexible, resilient, ready, and appropriately tailored'' 
     nuclear deterrent.
       (2) On January 31, 2017, Secretary of Defense James Mattis 
     issued a memorandum entitled ``Implementation Guidance for 
     Budget Directives in the National Security Presidential 
     Memorandum on Rebuilding the U.S. Armed Forces'', which 
     called for ``an ambitious reform agenda, which will include 
     horizontal integration across DoD components to improve 
     efficiency and take advantage of economies of scale''.
       (b) Report Required.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for 
     Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics (or a successor in the 
     Office of the Secretary of Defense with responsibility for 
     acquisition programs), in coordination with the Secretary of 
     the Navy and the Secretary of the Air Force, shall submit to 
     the congressional defense committees a report on the 
     potential to achieve greater efficiency by integrating 
     elements of acquisition programs related to the modernization 
     and sustainment of the nuclear triad.
       (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall, 
     at a minimum--
       (A) identify any opportunities for improved efficiency in 
     program management, cost, and schedule to be created by 
     increasing integration, co-location, and commonality between 
     the strategic deterrent programs and their systems, 
     subsystems, technologies, and engineering processes; and
       (B) identify any risks to program management, cost, and 
     schedule, as well as mission and capability, created by the 
     opportunities identified under subparagraph (A).
       (3) Form.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall be 
     submitted in classified form, but with an unclassified 
     summary.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 822. Mr. BOOKER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle F of title XII, add the following:

     SEC. ____. STRATEGY TO IMPROVE DEFENSE INSTITUTIONS AND 
                   SECURITY SECTOR FORCES IN NIGERIA.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to the 
     appropriate congressional committees a report that contains a 
     comprehensive strategy to support improvements in defense 
     institutions and security sector forces in Nigeria.
       (b) Matters to Be Included.--The report required by 
     subsection (a) shall include the following:
       (1) An assessment of the threats posed by terrorist and 
     other militant groups operating in Nigeria, including Boko 
     Haram, ISIS-WA, and Niger Delta militants, as well as a 
     description of the origins, strategic aims, tactical methods, 
     funding sources, and leadership structures of each such 
     organization.
       (2) An assessment of efforts by the Government of Nigeria 
     to improve civilian protection, accountability for human 
     rights violations, and transparency in the defense 
     institutions and security sector forces.
       (3) A plan for the United States Government to work with 
     the Nigerian defense institutions and security sector forces 
     to improve professionalism, civilian protection, detainee 
     conditions, and transparency.
       (4) A description of the key international and United 
     States security and economic resources available to improve 
     Nigerian defense institutions and security forces to address 
     instability across Nigeria, and a plan to maximize the 
     coordination and effectiveness of these resources.

[[Page S5066]]

       (5) An assessment of efforts undertaken by the security 
     forces of the Government of Nigeria to improve the protection 
     of civilians in the context of--
       (A) ongoing military operations against Boko Haram in the 
     northeast region;
       (B) addressing farmer-herder land disputes in the Middle 
     Belt;
       (C) renewed militant attacks on oil and gas infrastructure 
     in the Delta; and
       (D) addressing pro-Biafra protests in the southeast region.
       (6) An assessment of the effectiveness of the Civilian 
     Joint Task Force that has been operating in parts of 
     northeastern Nigeria in order to ensure that underage youth 
     are not participating in government-sponsored vigilante 
     activity in violation of the Child Soldiers Accountability 
     Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-340).
       (7) An assessment of the Government of Nigeria's plan to 
     eventually incorporate the Civilian Joint Task Force into 
     Nigeria's military or law enforcement agencies or reintegrate 
     its members into civilian life.
       (8) A plan for the United States Government to improve the 
     capacity of the Nigerian military and judiciary to 
     transparently investigate human rights violations committed 
     by the security forces of the Government of Nigeria and other 
     security forces operating in Nigeria that have involved 
     civilian casualties, and to undertake tangible measures of 
     accountability following such investigations in order to 
     break the cycle of conflict.
       (9) A plan for the United States Government to work with 
     the Nigerian military, international organizations, and 
     nongovernmental organizations to transition the humanitarian 
     response to the food insecurity and population displacement 
     in northeastern Nigeria from a military led effort to 
     civilian organizations.
       (10) Any other matters the President considers appropriate.
       (c) Updates.--Not later than 1 year after the date on which 
     the report required under subsection (a) is submitted to the 
     appropriate congressional committees, and annually thereafter 
     for 5 years, the President shall submit to the appropriate 
     congressional committees an update of the report containing 
     updated assessments and evaluations on progress made on the 
     plans described in the report, including--
       (1) updated assessments on the information described in 
     paragraphs (2), (4), and (6) of subsection (a); and
       (2) descriptions of the steps taken and outcomes achieved 
     under each of the plans described in paragraphs (7), (8), 
     (9), and (10) of subsection (a), as well as assessments of 
     the effectiveness and descriptions of the metrics used to 
     evaluate effectiveness for each such plan.
       (d) Form.--The report required under subsection (a) and the 
     updates required under (c) shall be submitted in unclassified 
     form, but may include a classified annex.
       (e) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (1) the congressional defense committees;
       (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Select 
     Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
       (3) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Permanent 
     Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
     Representatives.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 823. Mr. McCAIN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title V, add the following:

     SEC. ___. STANDARDIZATION OF AUTHORITIES IN CONNECTION WITH 
                   REPEAL OF STATUTORY SPECIFICATION OF GENERAL 
                   OFFICER GRADE FOR THE DEAN OF THE ACADEMIC 
                   BOARD OF THE UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY AND 
                   THE DEAN OF THE FACULTY OF THE UNITED STATES 
                   AIR FORCE ACADEMY.

       (a) Dean of Academic Board of USMA.--Section 4335(c) of 
     title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) by striking the first and third sentences; and
       (2) in the remaining sentence, by striking ``so appointed'' 
     and inserting ``appointed as Dean of the Academic Board''.
       (b) Dean of Faculty of USAFA.--Section 9335(b) of such 
     title is amended by striking ``so appointed'' and inserting 
     ``appointed as Dean of the Faculty''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 824. Mr. THUNE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle E of title V, add the following:

     SEC. ___. CYBERSECURITY TRAINING PROGRAM IN THE ARMY SENIOR 
                   RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS.

       (a) Training Program Required.--The Secretary of the Army 
     shall, in consultation with the Commander of the United 
     States Cyber Command and the Superintendent of the United 
     States Military Academy, establish within the Army Senior 
     Reserve Officers' Training Corps (SROTC) program a training 
     program on cybersecurity. The training program shall be known 
     as ``Army Cyber R.O.T.C.''.
       (b) Elements.--
       (1) In general.--The training program required by 
     subsection (a) shall include the following:
       (A) Expansion of Military Science instruction provided to 
     Army Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps to include 
     coursework and summer training opportunities for students on 
     cybersecurity.
       (B) Modification of the Cadet Talent Management system of 
     the Army Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps to 
     incorporate cybersecurity potential.
       (C) Establishment of criteria for the selection of Cyber 
     Operations Officers among Army Senior Reserve Officers' 
     Training Corps students.
       (2) Preservation of academic and other requirements.--
     Nothing in the training program shall be construed to relieve 
     a student participating in the training program of the 
     obligation to meet academic and other requirements otherwise 
     generally applicable to students participating in the Army 
     Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps program.
       (c) Scope of Program.--The training program required by 
     subsection (a) shall be designed to promote partnerships 
     between units participating in the training program and the 
     Centers of Academic Excellence of the National Security 
     Agency and the Department of Homeland Security.
       (d) Initial Implementation.--The Secretary shall implement 
     the training program required by subsection (a) during the 
     2018-2019 academic year by carrying out the training program 
     in that academic year at not fewer than five civilian 
     educational institutions participating in the Army Senior 
     Reserve Officers' Training Corps program that are selected by 
     the Secretary for purposes of the implementation of the 
     training program.
       (e) Report.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
     Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
     Representatives a report on the training program required by 
     subsection (a).
       (2) Elements.--The report shall set forth the following:
       (A) A description of the training program, including the 
     elements of the training program pursuant to subsection (b) 
     and the manner in which the training program will be 
     implemented pursuant to subsection (d).
       (B) An assessment of the current need of the Army for 
     Reserve officers with cybersecurity expertise, and of the 
     challenges faced by the Army in developing Reserve officers 
     with such expertise.
       (C) Any other matters with respect to the training by or 
     for the Army of Reserve officers in cybersecurity matters 
     that the Secretary considers appropriate.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 825. Mr. BOOZMAN (for himself, Mr. Brown, Mr. Hoeven, and Mr. 
Tester) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him to the 
bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for 
military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle G of title X, add the following:

     SEC. _____. COMMEMORATION OF THE 70TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE AIR 
                   FORCE.

       (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
       (1) on August 1, 1907, the Aeronautical Division of the 
     Army Signal Corps, consisting of 1 officer and 2 enlisted 
     men, began operation under the command of Captain Charles 
     DeForest Chandler with the responsibility for ``all matters 
     pertaining to military ballooning, air machines, and all 
     kindred subjects'';
       (2) in 1908, the Department of War contracted with the 
     Wright brothers to build 1 heavier-than-air flying machine 
     for the Army and, in 1909, the Department accepted the Wright 
     Military Flyer, the first military airplane;
       (3) pilots of the United States, flying with both Allied 
     air forces and with the Army Air Service, performed admirably 
     during the course of World War I, the first air war in 
     history, by participating in pursuit, observation, and day 
     and night bombing missions;
       (4) pioneering aviators of the United States, including 
     Mason M. Patrick, William ``Billy'' Mitchell, Benjamin D. 
     Foulois, Frank M. Andrews, Henry H. ``Hap'' Arnold, James H. 
     ``Jimmy'' Doolittle, and Edward ``Eddie'' Rickenbacker--
       (A) were among the first individuals to recognize the 
     military potential of airpower; and
       (B) in the decades following World War I, courageously laid 
     the foundation for the creation of an independent arm for the 
     air forces of the United States;

[[Page S5067]]

       (5) on June 20, 1941, the Department of War created the 
     Army Air Forces as the aviation element of that Department 
     and, shortly thereafter, the Department made the Army Air 
     Forces co-equal to the Army Ground Forces;
       (6) General Henry H. ``Hap'' Arnold drew upon the 
     industrial prowess and human resources of the United States 
     to transform the Army Air Corps from a force of 22,400 men 
     and 2,402 aircraft in 1939 into an entity with a peak wartime 
     strength of 2,400,000 personnel and 79,908 aircraft;
       (7) the standard for courage, flexibility, and intrepidity 
     in combat was established for all Airmen during the first 
     aerial raid in the Pacific Theater on April 18, 1942, when 
     Lieutenant Colonel James ``Jimmy'' H. Doolittle led 16 North 
     American B-25 Mitchell bombers in a joint operation from the 
     deck of the USS Hornet to strike the Japanese mainland in 
     response to the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor;
       (8) the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3001 et 
     seq.), signed into law by President Harry S. Truman, 
     realigned and reorganized the Armed Forces to establish the 
     Department of the Air Force (referred to in this section as 
     the ``USAF'') as separate from other military services;
       (9) on September 18, 1947, W. Stuart Symington became the 
     first Secretary of the newly formed and independent USAF, 
     marking the date on which the USAF was established;
       (10) on September 26, 1947, General Carl A. Spaatz, a 
     pioneering aviator and former Commanding General of the Army 
     Air Forces, became the first Chief of Staff of the USAF;
       (11) the Air National Guard was also created by the 
     National Security Act of 1947 and has played a vital role in 
     guarding the United States and defending freedom in nearly 
     every major conflict and contingency since its creation;
       (12) on October 14, 1947, the USAF demonstrated the 
     historic and ongoing commitment of the USAF to technological 
     innovation when Captain Charles ``Chuck'' Yeager piloted the 
     X-1 developmental rocket plane to a speed of Mach 1.07, 
     becoming the first flyer to break the sound barrier in a 
     powered aircraft in level flight;
       (13) the Air Force Reserve, created on April 14, 1948, is 
     comprised of citizen airmen who serve as unrivaled wingmen of 
     the active duty USAF during every deployment and on every 
     mission and battlefield around the world in which the USAF is 
     engaged;
       (14) the USAF carried out the Berlin Airlift in 1948 and 
     1949 to provide humanitarian relief to post-war Germany and 
     has established a tradition of offering humanitarian 
     assistance when responding to natural disasters and needs 
     across the world;
       (15) the Tuskegee Airmen served the United States with 
     tremendous dignity and honor, overcame segregation and 
     prejudice to become one of the most highly respected fighter 
     groups of World War II, and helped to establish a policy of 
     racial integration within the ranks of the USAF, as, on April 
     26, 1948, the USAF became the first military branch to 
     integrate, a full 3 months before an Executive order 
     integrated all military services;
       (16) the arsenal of bombers of the USAF, such as the long-
     range Convair B-58 Hustler and B-36 Peacemaker, and the 
     Boeing B-47 Stratojet and B-52 Stratofortress, under the 
     command of General Curtis LeMay--
       (A) served as the preeminent deterrent of the United States 
     against the forces of the Soviet Union during the early years 
     of the Cold War; and
       (B) were later augmented by the development and deployment 
     of medium range and intercontinental ballistic missiles, such 
     as the Titan and Minuteman, developed by General Bernard A. 
     Schriever;
       (17) on April 1, 1954, President Dwight D. Eisenhower 
     signed legislation establishing the United States Air Force 
     Academy, the mission of which is to educate, develop, and 
     inspire men and women to become aerospace officers and 
     leaders of impeccable character and knowledge, and that, as 
     of 2017, has graduated 59 classes and 49,700 cadets;
       (18) during the Korean War, the USAF--
       (A) employed the first large-scale combat use of jet 
     aircraft;
       (B) helped to establish air superiority over the Korean 
     Peninsula;
       (C) protected ground forces of the United Nations with 
     close air support; and
       (D) interdicted enemy reinforcements and supplies;
       (19) after the development of launch vehicles and orbital 
     satellites, the mission of the USAF expanded into space and, 
     as of 2017, provides exceptional support with respect to 
     real-time global communications, environmental monitoring, 
     navigation, precision timing, missile warning, nuclear 
     deterrence, and space surveillance;
       (20) during the Vietnam War, the USAF--
       (A) engaged in a limited campaign of airpower to assist the 
     South Vietnamese government in countering the communist Viet 
     Cong guerillas; and
       (B) fought to disrupt supply lines, halt enemy ground 
     offensives, and protect United States and Allied forces;
       (21) on April 3, 1967, former prisoner of war Paul W. 
     Airey, a career radio operator, aerial gunner, and First 
     Sergeant, became the first Chief Master Sergeant of the USAF;
       (22) in recent decades, the USAF and coalition partners of 
     the United States have supported successful actions in 
     Grenada, Panama, Iraq, Kuwait, Somalia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, 
     Haiti, Kosovo, Afghanistan, Libya, Syria, and many other 
     locations around the world;
       (23) USAF Special Operations Forces have served with honor 
     and distinction around the world since their activation in 
     1990, providing the United States with specialized airpower 
     across the broad spectrum of conflict in any place and at any 
     time;
       (24) for 27 consecutive years beginning in 1990, Airmen 
     have--
       (A) been engaged in continuous combat operations ranging 
     from Operation Desert Shield to the Global War on Terrorism 
     to Operation Inherent Resolve; and
       (B) shown that the Airmen--
       (i) constitute an air and space expeditionary force of 
     outstanding capability; and
       (ii) are ready to fight and win wars for the United States 
     when and where they are called upon;
       (25) when terrorists attacked the United States on 
     September 11, 2001, fighter and air refueling aircraft of the 
     USAF--
       (A) took to the skies to fly combat air patrols over major 
     cities of the United States; and
       (B) protected the families, friends, and neighbors of the 
     people of the United States from further attack;
       (26) on December 7, 2005, the USAF modified its mission 
     statement to include flying and fighting in air, space, and 
     cyberspace and prioritized the innovation, 
     operationalization, and sustainment of warfighting 
     capabilities to deliver unrestricted access to cyberspace to 
     defend the United States and its worldwide interests;
       (27) women have played a prominent role in the evolution of 
     the USAF, courageously fighting alongside their male 
     counterparts and dedicating their lives to protecting peace, 
     liberty, and freedom around the world as they provide ``ready 
     to fight tonight'' airpower whenever and wherever needed;
       (28) as of 2017, the USAF has made tremendous strides in 
     the global warfighting domain of cyberspace by 
     revolutionizing offensive and defensive capabilities and 
     effects with speed, agility, and surgical precision, thereby 
     ensuring the continuous command, control, and execution of 
     joint and service operations in contested, degraded, and 
     limited environments;
       (29) the untapped potential of enlisted aviators is 
     recognized by the USAF as these highly trained, intelligent, 
     and professional Airmen fly remotely piloted aircraft to 
     distant skies in support of combatant commanders and meet the 
     insatiable demand for persistent intelligence, surveillance, 
     and reconnaissance capabilities;
       (30) the Civil Air Patrol, as a total force partner and 
     auxiliary of the USAF, has maintained a steadfast commitment 
     to the United States and the communities of the United States 
     through a proud legacy of service, from the earliest days of 
     World War II, when the Civil Air Patrol protected the 
     shorelines of the United States, through 2017, as the Civil 
     Air Patrol executes emergency service missions;
       (31) the USAF is steadfast in the commitment to fielding a 
     world-class air expeditionary force by recruiting, training, 
     and educating its officer, enlisted, and civilian corps 
     comprising the active duty, Air National Guard, and Air Force 
     Reserve components of the USAF;
       (32) more than 100,000 Airmen stand watch around the world 
     at 175 global locations, committed to winning the constant 
     fight against violent extremist organizations by expending 
     more than 56,000 munitions and striking more than 32,000 
     enemy targets over the course of 18,200 airstrikes;
       (33) Airmen were imprisoned and tortured during several 
     major conflicts, including World War I, World War II, the 
     Vietnam War, the Korean War, and the Persian Gulf War, and, 
     in the valiant tradition of Airmen held captive, continued 
     serving the United States with honor and dignity under the 
     most inhumane circumstances;
       (34) Airmen have earned the Medal of Honor 18 times, the 
     Air Force Cross 183 times, the Distinguished Service Cross 42 
     times, and the Silver Star 74 times;
       (35) the USAF--
       (A) is a tremendous steward of resources;
       (B) develops and applies groundbreaking technology;
       (C) manages complex acquisition programs; and
       (D) maintains test, evaluation, and sustainment criteria 
     for all USAF weapon systems throughout the life cycles of 
     those weapon systems;
       (36) talented and dedicated Airmen will continue to meet 
     the future challenges of an ever-changing world with 
     limitless strength, resolve, and patriotism;
       (37) on every continent around the world, the USAF has 
     bravely fought for freedom, liberty, and peace, preserved 
     democracy, and protected the people and interests of the 
     United States;
       (38) Airmen of the USAF, together with their joint force 
     partners, will continue to be a tremendous resource for the 
     United States in fights across every domain and at every 
     location, delivering continuous air and space superiority, 
     intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance, rapid global 
     mobility, global strike, and command and control 
     capabilities, thereby ensuring the safety and security of the 
     United States; and
       (39) for 70 years, the USAF and the Airmen of the USAF, 
     through their exemplary service and sacrifice, have 
     repeatedly proven their value to the United States, the 
     people

[[Page S5068]]

     of the United States, the allies of the United States, and 
     all free people of the world.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) the 70th anniversary of the establishment of the Air 
     Force as an independent military service should be 
     commemorated; and
       (2) the achievements of the Air Force in serving and 
     defending the United States through global vigilance, global 
     reach, and global power should be remembered, honored, and 
     commended.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 826. Mr. COTTON submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

     SEC. ___. ELIMINATION OF SEQUESTRATION.

       The Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
     1985 (2 U.S.C. 900 et seq.) is amended--
       (1) in section 251(a) (2 U.S.C. 901(a))--
       (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Within'' and inserting 
     ``For each fiscal year beginning before October 1, 2017, 
     within'';
       (B) in paragraph (4), in the matter preceding subparagraph 
     (A), by inserting ``beginning before October 1, 2017'' after 
     ``fiscal year'';
       (C) in paragraph (6), by striking ``If'' and inserting 
     ``For each fiscal year beginning before October 1, 2017, 
     if''; and
       (D) in paragraph (7)--
       (i) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``for a fiscal year 
     beginning before October 1, 2017'' after ``any discretionary 
     appropriation''; and
       (ii) in subparagraph (B), in the first sentence, by 
     inserting ``for a fiscal year beginning before October 1, 
     2017'' after ``any discretionary appropriation''; and
       (2) in section 254 (2 U.S.C. 904)--
       (A) in subsection (a), in the matter preceding the table, 
     by inserting ``beginning before October 1, 2017'' after ``any 
     budget year'';
       (B) in subsection (c)(2), by striking ``2021'' and 
     inserting ``2017'';
       (C) in subsection (f)(2)(A), by striking ``2021'' and 
     inserting ``2017''; and
       (D) in subsection (g), by striking ``If'' and inserting 
     ``For each fiscal year beginning before October 1, 2017, 
     if''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 827. Ms. STABENOW (for herself and Ms. Baldwin) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by her to the bill H.R. 2810, to 
authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and for 
defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

     SEC. __. BUY AMERICAN REQUIREMENTS FOR ITEMS USED OUTSIDE THE 
                   UNITED STATES.

       For any item (excluding petroleum) to be used outside the 
     United States that is not to be used on an urgent basis and 
     is not subject to the requirements under chapter 83 of title 
     41, United States Code (commonly referred to as the ``Buy 
     American Act''), the Secretary of Defense shall direct 
     contracting personnel to identify and give consideration to 
     domestically sourced and Buy American compliant items before 
     soliciting offers for items that are not compliant with the 
     Buy American Act.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 828. Ms. STABENOW (for herself and Ms. Baldwin) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by her to the bill H.R. 2810, to 
authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and for 
defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

     SEC. __. BUY AMERICAN ACT TRAINING FOR DEFENSE ACQUISITION 
                   WORKFORCE.

       (a) Finding.--Congress finds that the Inspector General of 
     the Department of Defense has issued a series of reports 
     finding deficiencies in the adherence to the provisions of 
     the Buy American Act and recommending improvements in 
     training for the Defense acquisition workforce.
       (b) Report.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the 
     United States shall submit to the congressional defense 
     committees a report evaluating Buy American training policies 
     for the Defense acquisition workforce.
       (2) Elements.--The report shall include the following 
     elements:
       (A) A summary and assessment of mandated training courses 
     for Department of Defense acquisition personnel responsible 
     for procuring items that are subject to the Berry Amendment 
     and Buy American Act.
       (B) An assessment of Department of Defense efforts to 
     reinforce training related to Berry Amendment and Buy 
     American requirements.
       (C) Options for alternative training models for contracting 
     personnel on Buy American and Berry Amendment requirements.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 829. Ms. STABENOW (for herself and Ms. Baldwin) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by her to the bill H.R. 2810, to 
authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and for 
defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle J of title VIII, add the following:

     SEC. __. MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING PROVIDING FOR DEPARTMENT 
                   OF DEFENSE CONTRACTING PERSONNEL CONSULTATION 
                   WITH MANUFACTURING EXTENSION PARTNERSHIP WHEN 
                   CONDUCTING MARKET RESEARCH ON PROCUREMENTS.

       The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Commerce 
     shall develop a memorandum of understanding allowing 
     Department of Defense contracting personnel to consult with 
     the Manufacturing Extension Partnership when conducting 
     market research on procurements that are subject to 
     requirements under chapter 83 of title 41, United States Code 
     (commonly referred to as the ``Buy American Act'').
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 830. Mr. THUNE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 210, to facilitate the development of energy on 
Indian lands by reducing Federal regulations that impede tribal 
development of Indian lands, and for other purposes; which was ordered 
to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle E of title XVI, add the following:

     SEC. 1656. MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR TESTING OF GROUND-BASED 
                   MIDCOURSE DEFENSE ELEMENT OF THE BALLISTIC 
                   MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEM.

       (a) In General.--The Director of the Missile Defense Agency 
     shall flight test the ground-based midcourse defense element 
     of the ballistic missile defense system at least twice each 
     fiscal year.
       (b) Derivation of Funding.--Amounts required to carry out 
     this section in fiscal year 2018 shall be derived from 
     amounts appropriated pursuant to section 201 and available 
     for research, development, test, and evaluation.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 831. Mrs. MURRAY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
her to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of part II of subtitle C of title VI, add the 
     following:

     SEC. ___. GARNISHMENT TO SATISFY JUDGMENT RENDERED FOR 
                   PHYSICALLY, SEXUALLY, OR EMOTIONALLY ABUSING A 
                   CHILD.

       (a) Garnishment Authority.--Section 1408 of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new subsection:
       ``(l) Garnishment to Satisfy a Judgment Rendered for 
     Physically, Sexually, or Emotionally Abusing a Child.--(1) 
     Subject to paragraph (2), any payment of retired pay that 
     would otherwise be made to a member shall be paid (in whole 
     or in part) by the Secretary concerned to another person if 
     and to the extent expressly provided for in the terms of a 
     child abuse garnishment order.
       ``(2) A court order providing for the payment of child 
     support or alimony or, with respect to a division of 
     property, specifically providing for the payment of an amount 
     of the disposable retired pay from a member to the spouse or 
     a former spouse of the member, shall be given priority over a 
     child abuse garnishment order. However, the limitations on 
     the amount of disposable retired pay available for payments 
     set forth in paragraphs (1) and (4)(B) of subsection (e) do 
     not apply to a child abuse garnishment order.
       ``(3) In this subsection, the term `court order' includes a 
     child abuse garnishment order.
       ``(4) In this subsection, the term `child abuse garnishment 
     order' means a final decree issued by a court that--
       ``(A) is issued in accordance with the laws of the 
     jurisdiction of that court; and
       ``(B) provides in the nature of garnishment for the 
     enforcement of a judgment rendered against the member for 
     physically, sexually, or emotionally abusing a child.
       ``(5) For purposes of this subsection, a judgment rendered 
     for physically, sexually, or emotionally abusing a child is 
     any legal claim perfected through a final enforceable

[[Page S5069]]

     judgment, which claim is based in whole or in part upon the 
     physical, sexual, or emotional abuse of an individual under 
     18 years of age, whether or not that abuse is accompanied by 
     other actionable wrongdoing, such as sexual exploitation or 
     gross negligence.
       ``(6) If the Secretary concerned is served with more than 
     one court order with respect to the retired pay of a member, 
     the disposable retired pay of the member shall be available 
     to satisfy such court orders on a first-come, first-served 
     basis, with any such process being satisfied out of such 
     monies as remain after the satisfaction of all such processes 
     which have been previously served.
       ``(7) The Secretary concerned shall not be required to vary 
     normal pay and disbursement cycles for retired pay in order 
     to comply with a child abuse garnishment order.''.
       (b) Application of Amendment.--Subsection (l) of section 
     1408 of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection 
     (a), shall apply with respect to a court order received by 
     the Secretary concerned on or after the date of the enactment 
     of this Act, regardless of the date of the court order.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 832. Mrs. MURRAY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
her to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

     SEC. __. DISCLOSURES RELATED TO TRADE DEALS AND ARMS SALES.

       (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
     law, no covered agreement may enter into force, and the 
     United States may not incur any related obligation, until the 
     Office of Government Ethics certifies that no covered 
     individual will personally financially benefit from the 
     covered agreement.
       (b) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) Covered agreement.--The term ``covered agreement'' 
     means--
       (A) any agreement that covers sales pursuant to section 36 
     of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2776); and
       (B) any agreement with a foreign government under the 
     customs and trade laws of the United States (as defined in 
     section 2 of the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act 
     of 2015 (19 U.S.C. 4301)).
       (2) Covered individual.--The term ``covered individual'' 
     means--
       (A) the President;
       (B) the Vice President;
       (C) a relative of the President or Vice President as that 
     term is defined in section 109(16) of title 5, United States 
     Code; and
       (D) any civilian employee employed in the Executive Office 
     of the President who holds a commission of appointment from 
     the President.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 833. Mrs. MURRAY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
her to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of part I of subtitle C of title VI, add the 
     following:

     SEC. ___. PROMOTION OF FINANCIAL LITERACY CONCERNING 
                   RETIREMENT AMONG MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.

       (a) Programs for Promotion Required.--The Secretary of 
     Defense shall develop programs of financial literacy for 
     members of the Armed Forces to assist members in better 
     understanding retirement options and planning for retirement.
       (b) Information on Comparative Value of Lump Sum and 
     Monthly Payments of Retired Pay With Conventional Retired 
     Pay.--The Secretary of Defense shall develop information to 
     be provided to members of the Armed Forces who are eligible 
     to make the election provided for in subsection (b)(1) of 
     section 1415 of title 10, United States Code, to assist such 
     members in making an informed comparison for purposes of the 
     election between the following:
       (1) The value of the lump sum payment of retired pay and 
     monthly payments provided for in such subsection (b)(1) by 
     reason of the election, including the manner in which the 
     lump sum and such monthly payments are determined for any 
     particular member.
       (2) The value of retired pay payable under subsection (d) 
     of such section in the absence of the election, including the 
     manner in which such retired pay is determined for any 
     particular member.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 834. Mrs. MURRAY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
her to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

     SEC. __. PROHIBITION ON CONTRACTING WITH DISCRIMINATORY 
                   CONTRACTORS.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense may not enter 
     into any contract described in subsection (b) with any person 
     or business that the Secretary of Labor determines to have 
     engaged, during the 3-year period preceding the request for 
     proposals for the contract, in serious, repeated, willful, or 
     pervasive discrimination on the basis of sex in the payment 
     of wages in violation of section 6(d) of the Fair Labor 
     Standards Act of 1938 (commonly known as the ``Equal Pay Act 
     of 1963'') (29 U.S.C. 206(d)) or of title VII of the Civil 
     Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000e et seq.).
       (b) Applicable Contract.--A contract described in this 
     subsection is any procurement contract for goods or services, 
     including construction, in which the estimated value of the 
     supplies acquired and services required exceeds $500,000.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 835. Mrs. MURRAY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
her to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

     SEC. __. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON DEVELOPMENT OF VEHICLES FOR 
                   EVOLVED EXPENDABLE LAUNCH VEHICLE PROGRAM.

       It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of the Air 
     Force should end the reliance of the evolved expendable 
     launch vehicle program on rocket engines made in the Russian 
     Federation by continuing to invest in new launch vehicles 
     capable of supporting national security requirements.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 836. Mrs. MURRAY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
her to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

     SEC. __. PROHIBITION ON CONTRACTING WITH EMPLOYERS THAT 
                   ENGAGE IN WAGE THEFT BY STEALING EMPLOYEES' 
                   WAGES.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense may not enter 
     into any contract described in subsection (b) with any person 
     or business that the Secretary of Labor determines to have 
     owed, during the 3-year period preceding the request for 
     proposals for the contract, employees, or individuals who are 
     former employees, a cumulative amount of more than $100,000 
     in unpaid wages and associated damages resulting from 
     violations of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 
     201 et seq.) as determined by the Secretary of Labor or a 
     court of competent jurisdiction.
       (b) Applicable Contract.--A contract described in this 
     subsection is any procurement contract for goods or services, 
     including construction, in which the estimated value of the 
     supplies acquired and services required exceeds $500,000.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 837. Mrs. MURRAY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
her to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of part II subtitle C of title VI, add the 
     following:

     SEC. ___. RESTORATION OF STATES RIGHTS OVER THE DIVISION OF 
                   MILITARY PENSIONS BY COURT ORDER.

       (a) In General.--Section 1408(a)(4) of title 10, United 
     States Code, is amended--
       (1) by striking subparagraph (B); and
       (2) by redesignating subparagraphs (C) and (D) as 
     subpargraphs (B) and (C), respectively.
       (b) Application.--The amendments made by subsection (a) 
     shall apply with respect to any division of property as part 
     of a final decree of divorce, dissolution, annulment, or 
     legal separation involving a member of the Armed Forces to 
     which section 1408 of title 10, United States Code, applies 
     that becomes final after the date of the enactment of this 
     Act.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 838. Mrs. MURRAY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
her to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for

[[Page S5070]]

military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

     SEC. __. REQUIREMENT FOR REIMBURSEMENT BY DEPARTMENT OF 
                   DEFENSE TO ENTITIES CARRYING OUT STATE 
                   VACCINATION PROGRAMS FOR COSTS OF VACCINES 
                   PROVIDED TO COVERED BENEFICIARIES.

       Section 719(a)(1) of public law 114-328 is amended by 
     striking ``may'' and inserting ``shall''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 839. Mrs. MURRAY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
her to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the appropriate place, add the following:

     SEC.__. BASIC ALLOWANCE FOR HOUSING AND CERTAIN FEDERAL 
                   BENEFITS.

       (a) Exclusion.--Section 403(k) of title 37, United States 
     Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
       ``(4) In determining eligibility to participate in the 
     supplemental nutrition assistance program established under 
     the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.) 
     and the Family Subsistence Supplemental Allowance program, 
     the value of a housing allowance under this section shall be 
     excluded from any calculation of income, assets, or 
     resources.''.
       (b) Conforming Amendment--Section 5(d) of the Food and 
     Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2014(d)) is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (18), by striking ``; and'' and inserting 
     a semicolon;
       (2) in paragraph (19)(B), by striking the period at the end 
     and inserting ``; and''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(20) any allowance described in section 403(k)(4) of 
     title 37, United States Code.''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 840. Mrs. MURRAY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
her to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle B of title VII, ass the following:

     SEC. 726. REQUIREMENT FOR POSSESSION OF SEXUAL ASSAULT NURSE 
                   EXAMINER-ADULT/ADOLESCENT CERTIFICATION BY 
                   CERTAIN REGISTERED NURSES.

       (a) Requirement.--In accordance with the deadlines 
     specified in subsection (b), the registered nurses operating 
     in facilities specified in subsection (c) shall possess a 
     Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner-Adult/Adolescent (SANE-A) 
     certification or equivalent certification.
       (b) Deadlines.--The deadlines specified in this sub section 
     are as follows:
       (1) By not later than January 1, 2019, 50 per cent of the 
     aggregate number of registered nurses operating in facilities 
     specified in subsection (c) shall possess a certification as 
     described in subsection (a).
       (2) By not later than January 1, 2021, all registered 
     nurses operating in such facilities shall possess such a 
     certification.
       (c) Facilities.--The facilities specified in this 
     subsection are the following:
       (1) The emergency rooms and trauma centers within the 
     military healthcare system.
       (2) The medical facility of each naval vessel that 
     possesses a medical facility.
       (3) Each facility that provides Role 3 or Role 4 care, as 
     described in the Roles of Medical Care
       (d) EQUIVALENT CERTIFICATION.--
       (1) In general.--Any equivalent certification requirement 
     established for purposes of subsection (a) shall be 
     established by the Secretary of Defense and shall apply 
     uniformly across the Armed Forces.
       (2) Elements.--The equivalent certification requirement 
     shall--
       (A) require a minimum of 40 hours of appropriate training 
     for certification;
       (B) require appropriate continuing education for retaining 
     certification;
       (C) comply with applicable standards of the International 
     Association of Forensic Nurses; and
       (D) meet the standards of Department of Defense Instruction 
     6495.02, and any update or successor to such instruction.
       (e) Cost of Training.--The cost of any training required 
     for an individual to obtain a certification described in 
     subsection (a) for purposes of compliance with the 
     requirement in that subsection shall be borne by the 
     Department of Defense.
       (f) Report.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
     Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
     Representatives a report setting forth the plan of the 
     Secretary to implement the requirements of this section.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 841. Ms. HIRONO submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
her to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle E of title XII, add the following:

     SEC. ___. ASSESSMENT OF THE EXPANDING GLOBAL INFLUENCE OF 
                   CHINA AND ITS IMPACT ON THE NATIONAL SECURITY 
                   INTERESTS OF THE UNITED STATES.

       (a) Assessment.--The Secretary of Defense shall enter into 
     a contract or other agreement with an appropriate entity 
     independent of the Department of Defense to conduct an 
     assessment of the foreign military and non-military influence 
     of the People's Republic of China which could affect the 
     regional and global national security and defense interests 
     of the United States.
       (b) Elements.--The assessment required by subsection (a) 
     shall include an evaluation of the following:
       (1) The expansion by China of military and non-military 
     means of influence in the Indo-Asia-Pacific region and 
     globally, including, infrastructure investments, influence 
     campaigns, loans, access to military equipment, military 
     training, tourism, media, and access to foreign ports and 
     military bases, and whether such means of influence could 
     affect United States national security or defense interests, 
     including operational access.
       (2) The implications, if any, of such means of influence 
     for the military force posture, access, training, and 
     logistics of the United States and China.
       (3) The United States policy and strategy for mitigating 
     any harmful effects resulting from such means of influence.
       (4) The resources required to implement the policy and 
     strategy, and the plan to address and mitigate any gaps in 
     capabilities or resources necessary for the implementation of 
     the policy and strategy.
       (5) Measures to bolster the roles of allies, partners, and 
     other countries to implement the policy and strategy.
       (6) Any other matters the Secretary considers appropriate.
       (c) Report.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees a report on the assessment 
     required pursuant to subsection (a).
       (2) Form.--The report required shall be submitted 
     unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 842. Mr. STRANGE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the appropriate place in title II, insert the following:

     SEC. ___. BRIEFING ON NEED FOR CAPABILITY OF F-35 JOINT 
                   STRIKE FIGHTER TO EMPLOY A STEALTHY, INTERNALLY 
                   CARRIED, STANDOFF AIR-TO-GROUND OR SURFACE 
                   MISSILE.

       Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, the Commander of the Air Combat Command (ACC) of 
     the Air Force and the Director of Air Warfare (N98) of the 
     Navy shall provide the congressional defense committees a 
     briefing on the need of the Armed Forces for the F-35 joint 
     strike fighter to employ a stealthy, internally carried, 
     standoff air-to-ground or surface missile and the best ways 
     in which such need can be met.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 843. Mr. STRANGE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle B of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 313. SENSE ON CONGRESS ON THE SMALL TURBINE ENGINE 
                   INDUSTRIAL BASE.

       (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
       (1) The United States small turbine engine industry has 
     been innovating, developing, producing, and sustaining small 
     gas turbine engines in a competitive market for more than 75 
     years.
       (2) The United States small turbine engine industrial base 
     has made the United States

[[Page S5071]]

     the knowledge leader in low cost, no maintenance engine 
     designs with unmatched field reliability.
       (3) The United States small turbine engine industrial base 
     is at a critical juncture, as military requirements have 
     tapered and missile programs, in misguided attempts to save 
     money, are narrowing production contracts to a single vendor 
     causing two of the three existing small turbine engine 
     manufacturers to go out of business.
       (4) The departure of these companies from the United States 
     small turbine engine industry will leave only one viable, 
     proven source for small turbine engines for the Department of 
     Defense.
       (5) In 2016, a number of engine failures were encountered 
     that severely diminished the throughput of the F107-WR-101 
     engine maintenance process for the AGM-86 Air Launched Cruise 
     Missile (ALCM), thereby putting the weapon system at major 
     readiness risk.
       (6) The narrowing of the United States small turbine engine 
     industrial base would leave the Department with a sole source 
     United States supplier resulting in a loss of manufacturing 
     and testing capability that would be extremely detrimental to 
     both the United States industrial base and national security 
     by creating a single point of failure, increasing engine 
     procurement and testing prices by eliminating competition, 
     raising new engine development and air vehicle program risk, 
     and eliminating capabilities and expertise that would require 
     decades and millions of dollars to reconstitute.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of the Congress 
     that the Department of Defense should--
       (1) allocate sufficient funding to properly sustain the 
     F107 turbine engine in order to ensure this vital weapon is 
     viable until a replacement is fielded; and
       (2) contract with multiple, capable engine manufacturers to 
     stabilize and revitalize the United States small turbine 
     engine industrial base.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 844. Mr. STRANGE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       In section 234, strike subsection (b).
       In the funding table in section 4201, under the heading 
     ``Research, Development, Test & Eval, Army'', in the item 
     relating to Army Integrated Air and Missile Defense (AIAMD), 
     in the Senate authorized column, strike ``136,420'' and 
     insert ``336,420''.
       In the funding table in section 4201, under the heading 
     ``Research, Development, Test & Eval, Army'', in the item 
     relating to Army Integrated Air and Missile Defense (AIAMD), 
     in the Senate authorized column, strike ``[-200,000]''.
       In the funding table in section 4201, under the heading 
     ``Research, Development, Test & Eval, Army'', in the item 
     relating to Subtotal System Development & Demonstration, in 
     the Senate authorized column, strike ``3,130,618,'' and 
     insert ``3,330,618''.
       In the funding table in section 4201, under the heading 
     ``Research, Development, Test & Eval, Army'', in the item 
     relating to Total Research, Development, Test & Eval, Army, 
     in the Senate authorized column, strike ``9,906,352'' and 
     insert ``10,106,352''.
       In the funding table in section 4201, under the heading 
     ``Research, Development, Test & Eval, AF'', in the item 
     relating to Tech Transition Program, in the Senate authorized 
     column, strike ``935,650'' and insert ``785,650''.
       In the funding table in section 4201, under the heading 
     ``Research, Development, Test & Eval, AF'', in the item 
     relating to Subtotal Advanced Component Development & 
     Prototypes, in the Senate authorized column, strike 
     ``5,110,763'' and insert ``4,960,763''.
       In the funding table in section 4201, under the heading 
     ``Research, Development, Test & Eval, AF'', in the item 
     relating to Combat Training Ranges, in the Senate authorized 
     column, strike ``87,350'' and insert ``37,350''.
       In the funding table in section 4201, under the heading 
     ``Research, Development, Test & Eval, AF'', in the item 
     relating to Subtotal System Development & Demonstration, in 
     the Senate authorized column, strike ``4,620,662'' and insert 
     ``4,570,662''.
       In the funding table in section 4201, under the heading 
     ``Research, Development, Test & Eval, AF'', in the item 
     relating to Total Research, Development, Test & Eval, AF, in 
     the Senate authorized column, strike ``36,138,677'' and 
     insert ``35,938,677''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 845. Mr. STRANGE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

     SEC. __. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON FIRE PROTECTION IN DEPARTMENT 
                   OF DEFENSE FACILITIES.

       (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
       (1) A 2009 Consumer Product Safety Commission study found a 
     full 370,000 residential fires are suppressed by portable 
     fire extinguishers annually.
       (2) Throughout the United States, of the 48,460 fires in 
     buildings equipped with sprinklers from 2007 to 2011, 40,440, 
     or 83 percent, never grew large enough to activate 
     sprinklers, indicating many fires are successfully suppressed 
     by portable fire extinguishers.
       (3) Section 9-17.1 of the Unified Facilities Criteria 3-
     600-01 changes the Department of Defense building code by 
     stating, ``General purpose portable fire extinguishers are 
     not required when the Facility is provided with complete 
     automatic sprinkler protection and a fire alarm system in 
     accordance with this UFC.''
       (4) This new language is a departure from national model 
     fire codes, and is also a significant change from the last 
     Unified Criteria governing portable extinguishers.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) portable fire extinguishers are essential to the safety 
     of members of the Armed Forces and their families;
       (2) the current United Facilities Criteria provides members 
     of the Armed Forces, their families, and other Department of 
     Defense personnel with less fire protection than that of 
     civilian counterparts by deviating from fire safety codes 
     used across the country and not requiring portable 
     extinguishers on military installations;
       (3) United Facilities Criteria 3-600-01, Section 4-9, dated 
     September 26, 2006, clearly keeps Department of Defense 
     Facilities in line with the national and international 
     standards for fire safety; and
       (4) the Secretary of Defense should amend current United 
     Facilities Criteria Section 9-17.1 to reflect the standards 
     established by United Facilities Criteria 3-600-01, Section 
     4-9, dated September 26, 2006.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 846. Mr. UDALL (for himself and Mr. Crapo) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize 
appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the 
Department of Defense, for military construction, and for defense 
activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel 
strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes; which was 
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle B of title XXXI, insert the 
     following:

     SEC. __. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING URANIUM MINING AND 
                   NUCLEAR WEAPONS TESTING.

       It is the sense of Congress that the United States should 
     compensate and recognize all of the miners, workers, 
     downwinders, and others suffering from the effects of uranium 
     mining and nuclear weapons testing carried out during the 
     Cold War.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 847. Mr. UDALL (for himself and Mr. Heinrich) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 2810, to 
authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and for 
defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of section 3201, add the following:
       (b) Certification of Sufficiency of Budget Requests.--Not 
     later than 10 days after the date on which the budget of the 
     President for a fiscal year is submitted to Congress pursuant 
     to section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, the 
     Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees a letter--
       (1) certifying that the requested budget is sufficient for 
     the conduct of the safety reviews that the Board intends to 
     conduct in that fiscal year; or
       (2) if the Board is unable to make the certification 
     described in paragraph (1), including a list of such reviews 
     and the estimated level of additional funding required to 
     conduct such reviews.
       (c) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board was 
     chartered by Congress with an important mission to provide 
     independent recommendations and advice to the President and 
     the Secretary of Energy to protect public health and employee 
     safety at defense nuclear facilities of the Department of 
     Energy;
       (2) the role of the Board has necessarily evolved as the 
     mission of the Department has changed over time, but the 
     Board will continue to be vitally important as the Department 
     continues major efforts to modernize the nuclear weapons 
     stockpile and update its infrastructure in the 21st century; 
     and
       (3) any significant change to the Board and its mission can 
     only be considered by the Board as a whole with oversight by 
     Congress and requires legislative changes approved by 
     Congress.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 848. Ms. DUCKWORTH submitted an amendment intended to be proposed

[[Page S5072]]

by her to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal 
year 2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for 
military construction, and for defense activities of the Department of 
Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, 
and for other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

     SEC. ___. ESTABLISHMENT AND USE OF NATURALIZATION OFFICES AT 
                   INITIAL MILITARY TRAINING SITES.

       (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the 
     ``Naturalization At Training Sites Act of 2017'' or the 
     ``NATS Act''.
       (b) Definitions.--In this section, the term ``Secretary 
     concerned'' has the meaning given that term in section 101(a) 
     of title 10, United States Code.
       (c) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, and the 
     Secretary of Homeland Security with respect to the Coast 
     Guard, shall establish a naturalization office at each 
     initial military training site of the Armed Forces under the 
     jurisdiction of the respective Secretary.
       (d) Outreach.--In coordination with the Under Secretary of 
     Defense for Personnel and Readiness and the Director of U.S. 
     Citizenship and Immigration Services, each Secretary 
     concerned shall, to the maximum extent practicable--
       (1) identify each member of the Armed Forces overseen by 
     such Secretary who is not a citizen of the United States; and
       (2) inform each noncitizen member of the Armed Forces 
     overseen by such Secretary about--
       (A) the existence of a naturalization office at each 
     initial military training site;
       (B) the continuous availability of each naturalization 
     office throughout the career of a member of the Armed Forces 
     to--
       (i) evaluate the extent to which a noncitizen member of the 
     Armed Forces is eligible to become a naturalized citizen; and
       (ii) assess the suitability for citizenship of a noncitizen 
     member of the Armed Forces;
       (C) each potential pathway to citizenship;
       (D) each service a naturalization office provides;
       (E) the required length of service to obtain citizenship 
     during--
       (i) peacetime; and
       (ii) a period of hostility; and
       (F) the application process for citizenship, including--
       (i) details of the application process;
       (ii) required application materials;
       (iii) requirements for a naturalization interview; and
       (iv) any other information required to become a citizen 
     under the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et 
     seq.).
       (e) Timing.--Each Secretary concerned shall complete the 
     notifications required under subsection (d)--
       (1) during every stage of basic training;
       (2) during training for any military occupational 
     specialty;
       (3) at each school of professional military education;
       (4) upon each transfer of a duty station; and
       (5) at any other time determined appropriate by the 
     Secretary concerned.
       (f) Trained Personnel.--
       (1) Availability.--Each Secretary concerned shall retain 
     trained personnel at a naturalization office at every initial 
     military training site to provide appropriate services to 
     every member of the Armed Forces who is not a citizen of the 
     United States.
       (2) Training.--All personnel retained under paragraph (1) 
     shall be familiar with--
       (A) the special provisions of the Immigration and 
     Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.) authorizing the 
     expedited application and naturalization process for current 
     members of the Armed Forces and veterans;
       (B) the application process for naturalization and 
     associated application materials; and
       (C) the naturalization process administered by U.S. 
     Citizenship and Immigration Services.
       (g) Assignment Preference.--The Secretary concerned, to the 
     extent practicable, shall assign each new member of the Armed 
     Forces who is not a citizen of the United States to an 
     initial military training site that has a naturalization 
     office.
       (h) Reporting Requirement.--The Director of U.S. 
     Citizenship and Immigration Services shall annually publish, 
     on a publicly accessible website--
       (1) the number of members of the Armed Forces who became 
     naturalized United States citizens during the most recent 
     year for which data is available, categorized by country in 
     which the naturalization ceremony took place;
       (2) the number of Armed Forces member's children who became 
     naturalized United States citizens during the most recent 
     year for which data is available, categorized by country in 
     which the naturalization ceremony took place; and
       (3) the number of Armed Forces member's spouses who became 
     naturalized United States citizens during the most recent 
     year for which data is available, categorized by country in 
     which the naturalization ceremony took place.
       (i) Rulemaking.--Each Secretary concerned shall prescribe, 
     by regulation, a definition of the term ``initial military 
     training site'' for purposes of this section.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 849. Mr. KAINE (for himself, Mr. Wicker, Mr. Thune, Mr. Nelson, 
and Mrs. Murray) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him 
to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 
for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title XVI, add the following:

              Subtitle F--Cyber Scholarship Opportunities

     SEC. 1661. SHORT TITLE.

       This subtitle may be cited as the ``Cyber Scholarship 
     Opportunities Act of 2017''.

     SEC. 1662. FINDINGS.

       Congress finds the following:
       (1) A well-trained workforce is essential to meeting the 
     Nation's cybersecurity needs.
       (2) An October 2015 report by the National Academy of 
     Public Administration entitled ``Increasing the Effectiveness 
     of the Federal Role in Cybersecurity Education'' noted that 
     the United States faces a severe shortage of properly trained 
     and equipped cybersecurity professionals in both the 
     government and private sector workforce.
       (3) The 2015 (ISC)\2\ Global Information Security Workshop 
     Study stated that ``the information security workforce 
     shortfall is widening.''
       (4) The National Science Foundation's Federal Cyber 
     Scholarship-for-Service program is a successful effort to 
     support capacity building in institutions of higher education 
     and scholarships for students to pursue cybersecurity 
     careers.

     SEC. 1663. COMMUNITY COLLEGE CYBER PILOT PROGRAM AND 
                   ASSESSMENT.

       (a) Pilot Program.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
     enactment of this subtitle, as part of the Federal Cyber 
     Scholarship-for-Service program established under section 302 
     of the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2014 (15 U.S.C. 
     7442), the Director of the National Science Foundation, in 
     coordination with the Director of the Office of Personnel 
     Management, shall develop and implement a pilot program at 
     not more than 10, but at least 5, community colleges to 
     provide scholarships to eligible students who--
       (1) are pursuing associate degrees or specialized program 
     certifications in the field of cybersecurity; and
       (2)(A) have bachelor's degrees; or
       (B) are veterans of the armed forces.
       (b) Assessment.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
     enactment of this subtitle, as part of the Federal Cyber 
     Scholarship-for-Service program established under section 302 
     of the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2014 (15 U.S.C. 
     7442), the Director of the National Science Foundation, in 
     coordination with the Director of the Office of Personnel 
     Management, shall assess the potential benefits and 
     feasibility of providing scholarships through community 
     colleges to eligible students who are pursuing associate 
     degrees, but do not have bachelor's degrees.

     SEC. 1664. FEDERAL CYBER SCHOLARSHIP-FOR SERVICE PROGRAM 
                   UPDATES.

       (a) In General.--Section 302 of the Cybersecurity 
     Enhancement Act of 2014 (15 U.S.C. 7442) is amended--
       (1) by striking subsection (b)(3) and inserting the 
     following:
       ``(3) prioritize the employment placement of at least 80 
     percent of scholarship recipients in an executive agency (as 
     defined in section 105 of title 5, United States Code); and
       ``(4) provide awards to improve cybersecurity education at 
     the kindergarten through grade 12 level--
       ``(A) to increase interest in cybersecurity careers;
       ``(B) to help students practice correct and safe online 
     behavior and understand the foundational principles of 
     cybersecurity;
       ``(C) to improve teaching methods for delivering 
     cybersecurity content for kindergarten through grade 12 
     computer science curricula; and
       ``(D) to promote teacher recruitment in the field of 
     cybersecurity.'';
       (2) by amending subsection (d) to read as follows:
       ``(d) Post-award Employment Obligations.--Each scholarship 
     recipient, as a condition of receiving a scholarship under 
     the program, shall enter into an agreement under which the 
     recipient agrees to work for a period equal to the length of 
     the scholarship, following receipt of the student's degree, 
     in the cybersecurity mission of--
       ``(1) an executive agency (as defined in section 105 of 
     title 5, United States Code);
       ``(2) Congress, including any agency, entity, office, or 
     commission established in the legislative branch;
       ``(3) an interstate agency;
       ``(4) a State, local, or tribal government; or
       ``(5) a State, local, or tribal government-affiliated non-
     profit that is considered to be critical infrastructure (as 
     defined in section 1016(e) of the USA Patriot Act (42 U.S.C. 
     5195c(e)).'';
       (3) in subsection (f)--
       (A) by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows:
       ``(3) have demonstrated a high level of competency in 
     relevant knowledge, skills,

[[Page S5073]]

     and abilities, as defined by the national cybersecurity 
     awareness and education program under section 401;''; and
       (B) by amending paragraph (4) to read as follows:
       ``(4) be a full-time student in an eligible degree program 
     at a qualified institution of higher education, as determined 
     by the Director of the National Science Foundation, except 
     that in the case of a student who is enrolled in a community 
     college, be a student pursuing a degree on a less than full-
     time basis, but not less than half-time basis; and''; and
       (4) by amending subsection (m) to read as follows:
       ``(m) Public Information.--
       ``(1) Evaluation.--The Director of the National Science 
     Foundation, in coordination with the Director of the Office 
     of Personnel Management, shall periodically evaluate and make 
     public, in a manner that protects the personally identifiable 
     information of scholarship recipients, information on the 
     success of recruiting individuals for scholarships under this 
     section and on hiring and retaining those individuals in the 
     public sector cyber workforce, including on--
       ``(A) placement rates;
       ``(B) where students are placed, including job titles and 
     descriptions;
       ``(C) student salary ranges for students not released from 
     obligations under this section;
       ``(D) how long after graduation they are placed;
       ``(E) how long they stay in the positions they enter upon 
     graduation;
       ``(F) how many students are released from obligations; and
       ``(G) what, if any, remedial training is required.
       ``(2) Reports.--The Director of the National Science 
     Foundation, in coordination with the Office of Personnel 
     Management, shall submit, at least once every 3 years, to the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
     Senate and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of 
     the House of Representatives a report, including the results 
     of the evaluation under paragraph (1) and any recent 
     statistics regarding the size, composition, and educational 
     requirements of the Federal cyber workforce.
       ``(3) Resources.--The Director of the National Science 
     Foundation, in coordination with the Director of the Office 
     of Personnel Management, shall provide consolidated and user-
     friendly online resources for prospective scholarship 
     recipients, including, to the extent practicable--
       ``(A) searchable, up-to-date, and accurate information 
     about participating institutions of higher education and job 
     opportunities related to the field of cybersecurity; and
       ``(B) a modernized description of cybersecurity careers.''.
       (b) Savings Provision.--Nothing in this section, or an 
     amendment made by this section, shall affect any agreement, 
     scholarship, loan, or repayment, under section 302 of the 
     Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2014 (15 U.S.C. 7442), in 
     effect on the day before the date of enactment of this 
     subtitle.

     SEC. 1665. CYBERSECURITY TEACHING.

       Section 10(i) of the National Science Foundation 
     Authorization Act of 2002 (42 U.S.C. 1862n-1(i)) is amended--
       (1) by amending paragraph (5) to read as follows:
       ``(5) the term `mathematics and science teacher' means a 
     science, technology, engineering, mathematics, or computer 
     science, including cybersecurity, teacher at the elementary 
     school or secondary school level;''; and
       (2) by amending paragraph (7) to read as follows:
       ``(7) the term `science, technology, engineering, or 
     mathematics professional' means an individual who holds a 
     baccalaureate, master's, or doctoral degree in science, 
     technology, engineering, mathematics, or computer science, 
     including cybersecurity, and is working in or had a career in 
     such field or a related area; and''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 850. Mr. FRANKEN (for himself, Ms. Klobuchar, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. 
Hoeven, Ms. Heitkamp, Ms. Warren, and Mr. Manchin) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 2810, to 
authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and for 
defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle B of title V, add the following:

               PART II--RESERVE COMPONENT BENEFITS PARITY

     SEC. ___. ELIGIBILITY OF RESERVE COMPONENT MEMBERS FOR PRE-
                   MOBILIZATION HEALTH CARE.

       Section 1074(d)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking ``in support of a contingency operation 
     under'' and inserting ``under section 12304b of this title 
     or''.

     SEC. ___. ELIGIBILITY OF RESERVE COMPONENT MEMBERS FOR 
                   TRANSITIONAL HEALTH CARE.

       Section 1145(a)(2)(B) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking ``in support of a contingency operation'' 
     and inserting ``under section 12304b of this title or a 
     provision of law referred to in section 101(a)(13)(B) of this 
     title''.

     SEC. ___. CONSIDERATION OF SERVICE ON ACTIVE DUTY TO REDUCE 
                   AGE FOR ELIGIBILITY FOR RETIRED PAY FOR NON-
                   REGULAR SERVICE.

       Section 12731(f)(2)(B)(i) of title 10, United States Code, 
     is amended by striking ``under a provision of law referred to 
     in section 101(a)(13)(B) or under section 12301(d)'' and 
     inserting ``under section 12301(d) or 12304b of this title or 
     a provision of law referred to in section 101(a)(13)(B)''.

     SEC. ___. ELIGIBILITY OF RESERVE COMPONENT MEMBERS FOR HIGH-
                   DEPLOYMENT ALLOWANCE FOR LENGTHY OR NUMEROUS 
                   DEPLOYMENTS AND FREQUENT MOBILIZATIONS.

       Section 436(a)(2)(C)(ii) of title 37, United States Code, 
     is amended by inserting after ``under'' the first place it 
     appears the following: ``section 12304b of title 10 or''.

     SEC. ___. ELIGIBILITY OF RESERVE COMPONENT MEMBERS FOR 
                   NONREDUCTION IN PAY WHILE SERVING IN THE 
                   UNIFORMED SERVICES OR NATIONAL GUARD.

       Section 5538(a) of title 5, United States Code, is amended 
     in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by inserting after 
     ``under'' the following: ``section 12304b of title 10 or''.

     SEC. ___. EFFECT OF ORDER TO SERVE ON ACTIVE DUTY ON 
                   ELIGIBILITY FOR OR USE OF CERTAIN MILITARY 
                   BENEFITS.

       Section 1175a(j)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking ``or 12304'' and inserting ``12304, 
     12304a, or 12304b''.

     SEC. ___. RETROACTIVE APPLICABILITY OF AMENDMENTS.

       The amendments made by this part shall apply with respect 
     to any order for a member of a reserve component to serve on 
     active duty under section 12304a or 12304b of title 10, 
     United States Code, issued on or after January 1, 2012.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 851. Mrs. ERNST (for herself, Mr. Grassley, Mr. Durbin, and Ms. 
Duckworth) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by her to the 
bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for 
military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle D of title III, add the following:

     SEC. __. GUIDANCE REGARDING USE OF ORGANIC INDUSTRIAL BASE.

       The Secretary of the Army shall maintain the arsenals with 
     sufficient workloads to ensure affordability and technical 
     competence in all critical capability areas by establishing, 
     not later than 90 days after the enactment of this Act, 
     clear, step-by-step, prescriptive guidance on the process for 
     conducting make-or-buy analyses, including the use of the 
     organic industrial base.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 852. Mr. HEINRICH (for himself and Mr. Udall) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 2810, to 
authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and for 
defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle C of title XXVIII, add the 
     following:

     SEC. __. TECHNICAL CORRECTION TO AUTHORITY FOR RETURN OF 
                   CERTAIN LANDS AT FORT WINGATE, NEW MEXICO, TO 
                   ORIGINAL INHABITANTS.

       Section 2829F(a)(1) of the National Defense Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2734) 
     is amended by striking ``titled `The Fort Wingate Depot 
     Activity Negotiated Property Division April 2016' '' and 
     inserting ``titled `Final Agreement Map Between Navajo Nation 
     and Pueblo of Zuni', dated March 2016,''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 853. Mr. CARDIN (for himself and Mrs. Feinstein) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 2810, to 
authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and for 
defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

     SEC. __. CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION OF PROPOSED EXPORTS OF 
                   DEFENSE ARTICLES FORMERLY INCLUDED ON UNITED 
                   STATES MUNITIONS LIST.

       Any license to export a defense article on the Commerce 
     Control List that was controlled for export on the United 
     States Munitions List (USML) maintained pursuant to part 121 
     of title 22, Code of Federal Regulations as of January 1, 
     2017, shall be subject to the provisions of section 36 of the 
     Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2776) regarding 
     notification and review by Congress (and including all 
     current procedures for consultation) if the authorized value 
     of such license

[[Page S5074]]

     would meet or exceed the value thresholds applicable under 
     such section to defense articles listed on the USML.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 854. Mr. CORNYN (for himself and Mr. Cardin) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 2810, to 
authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and for 
defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end title XII of division A, add the following:

     Subtitle H--Iraq and Syria Genocide Relief and Accountability

     SEC. 1291. SHORT TITLE.

       This subtitle may be cited as the ``Iraq and Syria Genocide 
     Emergency Relief and Accountability Act of 2017''.

     SEC. 1292. FINDINGS; SENSE OF CONGRESS.

       (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
       (1) On March 17, 2016, Secretary of State John Kerry 
     stated, ``in my judgment, Daesh is responsible for genocide 
     against groups in areas under its control, including Yezidis, 
     Christians, and Shia Muslims . . . the United States will 
     strongly support efforts to collect, document, preserve, and 
     analyze the evidence of atrocities, and we will do all we can 
     to see that the perpetrators are held accountable''.
       (2) Secretary of State Kerry stated in the ``Atrocities 
     Prevention Report'', transmitted to Congress on March 17, 
     2016, ``The Department of State has a longstanding commitment 
     to providing support for the urgent humanitarian needs of 
     conflict-affected populations in Iraq, Syria, and across the 
     world, including but not limited to members of ethnic and 
     religious minorities.''.
       (3) The Independent International Commission of Inquiry on 
     the Syrian Arab Republic stated in its February 3, 2016, 
     report, ``The Government has committed the crimes against 
     humanity of extermination, murder, rape or other forms of 
     sexual violence, torture, imprisonment, enforced 
     disappearance and other inhuman acts. Based on the same 
     conduct, war crimes have also been committed. Both Jabhat Al-
     Nusra and some anti-Government armed groups have committed 
     the war crimes of murder, cruel treatment, and torture.''.
       (4) The International Criminal Investigative Training 
     Assistance Program and the Office of Overseas Prosecutorial 
     Development Assistance and Training of the Department of 
     Justice have provided technical assistance to governmental 
     judicial and law enforcement entities in Iraq, including with 
     funding support from the Department of State.
       (5) There were an estimated 800,000 to 1,400,000 Christians 
     in Iraq in 2002, 500,000 in 2013, and less than 250,000 in 
     2015, according to the annual International Religious Freedom 
     Reports of the Department of State.
       (6) Although Christians were an estimated 8 to 10 percent 
     of the 21,000,000 person population of Syria in 2010, ``media 
     and other reports of Christians fleeing the country as a 
     result of the civil war suggest the Christian population is 
     now considerably lower'' as of 2015, according to the annual 
     International Religious Freedom Reports of the Department of 
     State.
       (7) The Chaldean Catholic Archdiocese of Erbil (Iraq) is an 
     example of an entity that has not received funding from any 
     government and has been providing assistance to internally 
     displaced families of Yezidis, Muslims, and Christians, 
     including food, resettlement from tents to permanent housing, 
     and rent for Yezidis, medical care and education for Yezidis 
     and Muslims through clinics, schools, and a university that 
     are open to all, and some form of these types of assistance 
     to all of the estimated 10,500 internally displaced Christian 
     families, more than 70,000 people, in the greater Erbil 
     region.
       (8) Through the United States Refugee Admissions Program, 
     the United States Government--
       (A) admitted 12,676 Iraqi refugees in fiscal year 2015, 
     including at least 2,113 Christians and 213 Yezidis;
       (B) admitted 9,880 Iraqi refugees in fiscal year 2016, 
     including at least 1,524 Christians and 393 Yezidis;
       (C) admitted 1,682 Syrian refugees in fiscal year 2015, 
     including at least 30 Christians; and
       (D) admitted 12,587 Syrian refugees in fiscal year 2016, 
     including at least 64 Christians and 24 Yezidis.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--Congress--
       (1) strongly condemns--
       (A) the ongoing violence, use of chemical weapons, 
     targeting of civilian populations with barrel, incendiary, 
     and cluster bombs and SCUD missiles, and systematic gross 
     human rights violations carried out by the Government of 
     Syria and pro-government forces under the direction of 
     President Bashar al-Assad; and
       (B) all abuses committed by violent extremist groups and 
     other combatants involved in the civil war in Syria;
       (2) expresses its support for the people of Syria seeking 
     democratic change;
       (3) urges all parties to the conflict--
       (A) to immediately halt indiscriminate attacks on 
     civilians;
       (B) to allow for the delivery of humanitarian and medical 
     assistance; and
       (C) to end sieges of civilian populations;
       (4) calls on the President to support efforts in Syria, and 
     on the part of the international community, to ensure 
     accountability for war crimes, crimes against humanity, and 
     genocide committed during the conflict; and
       (5) supports the request in United Nations Security Council 
     Resolutions 2139 (2014), 2165 (2014), and 2191 (2014) for the 
     Secretary-General to regularly report to the Security Council 
     on implementation on the resolutions, including of paragraph 
     2 of Resolution 2139, which ``demands that all parties 
     immediately put an end to all forms of violence [and] cease 
     and desist from all violations of international humanitarian 
     law and violations and abuses of human rights''.

     SEC. 1293. DEFINITIONS.

       In this subtitle:
       (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
     ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
       (A) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate;
       (B) the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate;
       (C) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate;
       (D) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives;
       (E) the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
     Representatives; and
       (F) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives.
       (2) Capacity-building.--The term ``capacity-building'', 
     with respect to cases of genocide, crimes against humanity, 
     war crimes, and terrorism in Iraq or Syria, means developing 
     domestic skills to efficiently adjudicate such cases, 
     consistent with due process and respect for the rule of law, 
     through the use of experts in international criminal 
     investigations and experts in international criminal law to 
     partner with, mentor, provide technical advice for, formally 
     train, and provide equipment and infrastructure where 
     necessary and appropriate to, investigators and judicial 
     personnel in Iraq, including the Kurdistan region of Iraq, 
     and domestic investigators and lawyers in Syria.
       (3) Foreign terrorist organization.--The term ``foreign 
     terrorist organization'' mean an organization designated by 
     the Secretary of State as a foreign terrorist organization 
     pursuant to section 219(a) of the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act (8 U.S.C. 1189(a)).
       (4) Genocide.--The term ``genocide'' means any offense 
     described in section 1091(a) of title 18, United States Code.
       (5) Humanitarian, stabilization, and recovery needs.--The 
     term ``humanitarian, stabilization, and recovery needs'', 
     with respect to an individual, includes water, sanitation, 
     hygiene, food security, nutrition, shelter, housing, medical, 
     education, and psychosocial needs.
       (6) Hybrid tribunal.--The term ``hybrid tribunal'' means a 
     temporary criminal tribunal that involves a combination of 
     domestic and international lawyers, judges, and other 
     professionals to prosecute individuals suspected of 
     committing war crimes, crimes against humanity, or genocide.
       (7) Internationalized domestic court.--The term 
     ``internationalized domestic court'' means a domestic court 
     with the support of international advisers.
       (8) Transitional justice.--The term ``transitional 
     justice'' means the range of judicial, nonjudicial, formal, 
     informal, retributive, and restorative measures employed by 
     countries transitioning out of armed conflict or repressive 
     regimes--
       (A) to redress legacies of atrocities; and
       (B) to promote long-term, sustainable peace.
       (9) War crime.--The term ``war crime'' has the meaning 
     given the term in section 2441(c) of title 18, United States 
     Code.

     SEC. 1294. ACTIONS TO PROMOTE ACCOUNTABILITY IN IRAQ FOR ACTS 
                   OF GENOCIDE, CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY, AND WAR 
                   CRIMES.

       (a) Assistance To Support Certain Entities.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of State, acting through the 
     Assistant Secretary for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, 
     the Assistant Secretary for International Narcotics and Law 
     Enforcement Affairs, and Administrator of the United States 
     Agency for International Development, shall provide 
     assistance, including financial assistance, to support the 
     efforts of entities, including nongovernmental organizations 
     with expertise in international criminal investigations and 
     law, to undertake the activities described in paragraph (2) 
     to address genocide, crimes against humanity, or war crimes 
     in Iraq since January 2014.
       (2) Activities described.--The activities described in this 
     paragraph are--
       (A) conducting criminal investigations;
       (B) developing indigenous investigative and judicial 
     skills, including by partnering directly, mentoring, and 
     providing equipment and infrastructure for effectively 
     adjudicating cases consistent with the due process of law;
       (C) collecting and preserving evidence;
       (D) preserving the chain of evidence for prosecution in 
     domestic courts, hybrid tribunals, and internationalized 
     domestic courts; and
       (E) capacity building.
       (3) Availability of amounts.--Amounts authorized to be 
     appropriated or otherwise made available for programs, 
     projects, and

[[Page S5075]]

     activities carried out by the Assistant Secretary for 
     Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor and the Assistant 
     Secretary for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement 
     Affairs are authorized to be made available to carry out this 
     subsection.
       (b) Actions by Foreign Governments.--The Secretary of 
     State, in consultation with the Attorney General, the 
     Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Director of the 
     Federal Bureau of Investigation, shall encourage governments 
     of foreign countries--
       (1) to include information in appropriate security 
     databases and security screening procedures of such countries 
     to identify individuals who are suspected to have committed 
     genocide, crimes against humanity, or war crimes in Iraq 
     since January 2014 or in Syria since March 2011, including 
     individuals who are suspected to be members of foreign 
     terrorist organizations operating within Iraq or Syria; and
       (2) to prosecute individuals described in paragraph (1) for 
     genocide, crimes against humanity, or war crimes, as 
     appropriate.
       (c) Review of Certain Criminal Statutes.--The Attorney 
     General, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall 
     conduct a review of existing criminal statutes concerning 
     genocide, crimes against humanity, and war crimes to 
     determine--
       (1) the extent to which United States courts are currently 
     authorized by statute to exercise jurisdiction over such 
     crimes where the direct perpetrators, accomplices, or victims 
     are United States nationals, United States residents, or 
     persons physically present in the territory of the United 
     States either during the commission of the crime or 
     subsequent to the commission of the crime;
       (2) the statutes currently in effect that would apply to 
     conduct constituting war crimes or crimes against humanity, 
     including--
       (A) whether such statutes provide for extraterritorial 
     jurisdiction;
       (B) the statute of limitations for offenses under such 
     statutes;
       (C) the applicable penalties under such statutes; and
       (D) whether offenders would be subject to extradition or 
     mutual legal assistance treaties;
       (3) the extent to which the absence of criminal statutes 
     defining the crimes, or granting jurisdiction, would impede 
     the prosecution of genocide, crimes against humanity, and war 
     crimes in United States courts, including when United States 
     military forces capture persons outside the United States who 
     are known to have committed such crimes in a third country 
     that is either unable or unwilling to prosecute the crimes; 
     and
       (4) whether additional statutory authorities are necessary 
     to prosecute a United States person or a foreign person 
     within the territory of the United States for genocide, 
     crimes against humanity, or war crimes.
       (d) Consultation.--In carrying out subsection (a), the 
     Secretary of State shall consult with, and consider credible 
     information from, entities described in subsection (a)(1).
       (e) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that an 
     appropriate amount of the additional amount made available 
     under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' in title II of 
     division B of the Further Continuing and Security Assistance 
     Appropriations Act, 2017 (Public Law 114-254) should be made 
     available to carry out subsection (a).

     SEC. 1295. IDENTIFICATION OF, AND ASSISTANCE TO ADDRESS, 
                   HUMANITARIAN, STABILIZATION, AND RECOVERY NEEDS 
                   OF CERTAIN PERSONS IN IRAQ AND SYRIA.

       (a) Identification.--The Secretary of State, in 
     consultation with the Secretary of Defense, the Ambassador at 
     Large for International Religious Freedom, the Special 
     Advisor for Religious Minorities in the Near East and South/
     Central Asia, the Assistant Secretary for Population, 
     Refugees, and Migration, the Administrator of the United 
     States Agency for International Development, and the Director 
     of National Intelligence, shall identify--
       (1) the threats of persecution and other warning signs of 
     genocide, crimes against humanity, and war crimes against 
     individuals--
       (A) who--
       (i) are or were nationals and residents of Iraq or of 
     Syria; and
       (ii) are members of a religious, ethnic, or other minority 
     group in Iraq or in Syria against which the Secretary of 
     State has determined the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria 
     (ISIS) has committed genocide, crimes against humanity, or 
     war crimes in Iraq or in Syria since January 2014; or
       (B) who are members of another religious, ethnic, or other 
     minority group in Iraq or in Syria that has been identified 
     by the Secretary of State (or the Secretary's designee) as a 
     persecuted group;
       (2) the humanitarian, stabilization, and recovery needs of 
     individuals described in paragraph (1);
       (3) the religious, ethnic, and other minority groups in 
     Iraq and in Syria--
       (A) against which the Secretary of State has determined 
     ISIS has committed genocide, crimes against humanity, or war 
     crimes in Iraq or in Syria since January 2014; or
       (B) that the Secretary of State (or the Secretary's 
     designee) has identified as a persecuted group at risk of 
     forced migration, within or across the borders of Iraq, 
     Syria, or a country of first asylum, and the primary reasons 
     for such risk;
       (4) the assistance provided by the United States to address 
     humanitarian, stabilization, and recovery needs of 
     individuals described in paragraph (1) and groups described 
     in paragraph (3), including assistance to mitigate the risks 
     of forced migration of such persons and groups from Iraq or 
     from Syria;
       (5) the mechanisms used by the United States Government to 
     identify, assess, and respond to humanitarian, stabilization, 
     and recovery needs, and risks of forced migration, of 
     individuals described in paragraph (1) and groups described 
     in paragraph (3);
       (6) the assistance provided by or through the United 
     Nations, including the Funding Facility for Immediate 
     Stabilization and the Funding Facility for Expanded 
     Stabilization, to address humanitarian, stabilization, and 
     recovery needs of individuals described in paragraph (1) and 
     groups described in paragraph (3), including assistance to 
     mitigate the risks of forced migration of such individuals 
     and groups within or across the borders of Iraq, Syria, or a 
     country of first asylum from Iraq or from Syria;
       (7) the entities, including faith-based entities, that are 
     providing assistance to address humanitarian, stabilization, 
     and recovery needs of individuals described in paragraph (1) 
     and groups described in paragraph (3); and
       (8) if the United States Government is funding entities 
     described in paragraph (7) for purposes of providing 
     assistance described in such paragraph, the sources of such 
     funding; and
       (9) if the United States Government is not funding entities 
     described in paragraph (7) for purposes of providing 
     assistance described in such paragraph, a justification for 
     not funding such entities, including whether funding such 
     entities is prohibited under United States law.
       (b) Additional Consultation.--In carrying out subsection 
     (a), the Secretary of State shall consult with, and consider 
     credible information from, individuals described in 
     subsection (a)(1) and entities described in subsection 
     (a)(7).
       (c) Assistance.--The Secretary of State and Administrator 
     of the United States Agency for International Development 
     shall provide assistance, including cash assistance, to 
     support entities described in subsection (a)(7) that the 
     Secretary and the Administrator determine are effectively 
     providing assistance described in subsection (a)(7), 
     including entities that received funding from the United 
     States Government for such purposes before the date of the 
     enactment of this Act.
       (d) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that an 
     appropriate amount of the additional amount made available 
     under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' in title II of 
     division B of the Further Continuing and Security Assistance 
     Appropriations Act, 2017 (Public Law 114-254) should be made 
     available to carry out subsection (c).

     SEC. 1296. REPORTS.

       (a) Assistance for Persecuted Minorities in Iraq or in 
     Syria.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit a 
     report to the appropriate congressional committees that 
     includes a detailed description of--
       (1) the efforts taken, and proposed to be taken, by the 
     Secretary of State to implement section 1295; and
       (2) the matters identified under section 1295(a).
       (b) Support for the Investigation and Prosecution of War 
     Crimes.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit a 
     report to the appropriate congressional committees that 
     includes--
       (1) a detailed description of the efforts taken, and 
     efforts proposed to be taken, by the Secretary of State to 
     implement subsections (a) and (b) of section 1294; and
       (2) an assessment of--
       (A) the feasibility and advisability of prosecuting 
     individuals who are suspected to have committed genocide, 
     crimes against humanity, or war crimes in Iraq since January 
     2014, or in Syria since March 2011, in domestic courts in 
     Iraq, hybrid tribunals, and internationalized domestic 
     courts; and
       (B) the capacity building, and other measures, needed to 
     ensure effective criminal investigations of such individuals.
       (c) Criminal Statute Review.--Not later than 120 days after 
     the date of the enactment of this Act, the Attorney General 
     shall submit a report to the appropriate congressional 
     committees that includes--
       (1) the results of the review conducted under section 
     1294(c); and
       (2) such recommendations for legislative and administrative 
     actions to implement the results of such review as the 
     Attorney General determines appropriate.
       (d) Report on Accountability for War Crimes, Crimes Against 
     Humanity, and Genocide in Syria.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of State shall submit a 
     report on war crimes, crimes against humanity, and genocide 
     in Syria to the appropriate congressional committees not 
     later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this 
     Act and another such report not later than 180 days after the 
     Secretary of State determines that the violence in Syria has 
     ceased.
       (2) Elements.--The reports submitted under paragraph (1) 
     shall include--
       (A) a description of alleged war crimes, crimes against 
     humanity, and genocide perpetrated during the civil war in 
     Syria, including--

[[Page S5076]]

       (i) incidents that may constitute war crimes, crimes 
     against humanity, or genocide committed by the regime of 
     President Bashar al-Assad and all forces fighting on its 
     behalf;
       (ii) incidents that may constitute war crimes, crimes 
     against humanity, or genocide committed by violent extremist 
     groups, anti-government forces, and any other combatants in 
     the conflict;
       (iii) any incidents that may violate the principle of 
     medical neutrality and, if possible, the identification of 
     the individual or individuals who engaged in or organized 
     such incidents; and
       (iv) if possible, a description of the conventional and 
     unconventional weapons used for such crimes and the origins 
     of such weapons; and
       (B) a description and assessment by the Department of State 
     Office of Global Criminal Justice, the United States Agency 
     for International Development, the Department of Justice, and 
     other appropriate agencies of programs that the United States 
     Government has undertaken to ensure accountability for war 
     crimes, crimes against humanity, and genocide perpetrated 
     against the people of Syria by the regime of President Bashar 
     al-Assad, violent extremist groups, and other combatants 
     involved in the conflict, including programs--
       (i) to train investigators within and outside of Syria on 
     how to document, investigate, develop findings of, and 
     identify and locate alleged perpetrators of war crimes, 
     crimes against humanity, or genocide, including--

       (I) the number of United States Government or contract 
     personnel currently designated to work full-time on these 
     issues; and
       (II) the identification of the authorities and 
     appropriations being used to support such training efforts;

       (ii) to promote and prepare for a transitional justice 
     process or processes for the perpetrators of war crimes, 
     crimes against humanity, and genocide in Syria beginning in 
     March 2011;
       (iii) to document, collect, preserve, and protect evidence 
     of war crimes, crimes against humanity, and genocide in 
     Syria, including support for Syrian, foreign, and 
     international nongovernmental organizations, and other 
     entities, including the International, Impartial and 
     Independent Mechanism to Assist in the Investigation and 
     Prosecution of Persons Responsible for the Most Serious 
     Crimes under International Law Committed in the Syrian Arab 
     Republic since March 2011 and the Independent International 
     Commission of Inquiry on the Syrian Arab Republic; and
       (iv) to assess the influence of accountability measures on 
     efforts to reach a negotiated settlement to the Syrian 
     conflict during the reporting period.
       (3) Form.--The reports required under paragraph (1) may be 
     submitted in unclassified or classified form, but shall 
     include a publicly available annex.
       (e) Transitional Justice Study.--Not later than 180 days 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
     State (acting through appropriate officials and offices, 
     which may include the Office of Global Criminal Justice), 
     after consultation with the Department of Justice, the United 
     States Agency for International Development, and other 
     appropriate Federal agencies, shall--
       (1) complete a study of the feasibility and desirability of 
     potential transitional justice mechanisms for Syria, 
     including a hybrid tribunal, to address war crimes, crimes 
     against humanity, and genocide perpetrated in Syria beginning 
     in March 2011; and
       (2) submit a detailed report of the results of the study 
     conducted under paragraph (1), including recommendations on 
     which transitional justice mechanisms the United States 
     Government should support, why such mechanisms should be 
     supported, and what type of support should be offered, to--
       (A) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate;
       (B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives;
       (C) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
       (D) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives.
       (f) Form.--
       (1) In general.--Except as provided in subsection (d)(3), 
     each report required under this section shall be submitted in 
     unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex, if 
     necessary.
       (2) Protection of witnesses and evidence.--In carrying out 
     this section, the Secretary of State shall take due care to 
     ensure that the identification of witnesses and physical 
     evidence are not publicly disclosed in a manner that might 
     place such persons at risk of harm or encourage the 
     destruction of evidence by the Government of Syria, violent 
     extremist groups, anti-government forces, or any other 
     combatants or participants in the conflict.

     SEC. 1297. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AUTHORIZED.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of State (acting through 
     appropriate officials and offices, which may include the 
     Office of Global Criminal Justice), after consultation with 
     the Department of Justice and other appropriate Federal 
     agencies, is authorized to provide appropriate assistance to 
     support entities that, with respect to war crimes, crimes 
     against humanity, and genocide perpetrated by the regime of 
     President Bashar al-Assad, all forces fighting on its behalf, 
     and all non-state armed groups fighting in the country, 
     including violent extremist groups in Syria beginning in 
     March 2011--
       (1) identify suspected perpetrators of war crimes, crimes 
     against humanity, and genocide;
       (2) collect, document, and protect evidence of crimes and 
     preserve the chain of custody for such evidence;
       (3) conduct criminal investigations;
       (4) build Syria's investigative and judicial capacities and 
     support prosecutions in the domestic courts of Syria, 
     provided that President Bashar al-Assad is no longer in 
     power;
       (5) support investigations by third-party states, as 
     appropriate; or
       (6) protect witnesses that may be helpful to prosecutions 
     or other transitional justice mechanisms.
       (b) Additional Assistance.--The Secretary of State, after 
     consultation with appropriate Federal agencies and the 
     appropriate congressional committees, and taking into account 
     the findings of the transitional justice study required under 
     section 1296(e), is authorized to provide assistance to 
     support the creation and operation of transitional justice 
     mechanisms, including a potential hybrid tribunal, to 
     prosecute individuals suspected of committing war crimes, 
     crimes against humanity, or genocide in Syria beginning in 
     March 2011.
       (c) Briefing.--The Secretary of State shall provide 
     detailed, biannual briefings to the appropriate congressional 
     committees describing the assistance provided to entities 
     described in subsection (a).

     SEC. 1298. STATE DEPARTMENT REWARDS FOR JUSTICE PROGRAM.

       Section 36(b)(10) of the State Department Basic Authorities 
     Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2708(b)(10)) is amended by inserting 
     ``(including war crimes, crimes against humanity, or genocide 
     committed in Syria beginning in March 2011)'' after 
     ``genocide''.

     SEC. 1299. INDEPENDENT INTERNATIONAL COMMISSION OF INQUIRY ON 
                   THE SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC.

       The Secretary of State, acting through the United States 
     Permanent Representative to the United Nations, should use 
     the voice, vote, and influence of the United States at the 
     United Nations to advocate that the United Nations Human 
     Rights Council, while the United States remains a member, 
     annually extend the mandate of the Independent International 
     Commission of Inquiry on the Syrian Arab Republic until the 
     Commission has completed its investigation of all alleged 
     violations of international human rights laws beginning in 
     March 2011 in the Syrian Arab Republic.

                          ____________________



