

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 146 (Monday, September 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 146 (Monday, September 11, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S5114-S5116]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 102

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mr. Schumer) was added as a cosponsor of S. 102, a bill to direct the 
Federal Communications Commission to commence proceedings related to 
the resiliency of critical communications networks during times of 
emergency, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 194

  At the request of Mr. Whitehouse, the name of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 194, a bill to amend 
the Public Health Service Act to establish a public health insurance 
option, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 236

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) was added as a cosponsor of S. 236, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to reform taxation of alcoholic 
beverages.


                                 S. 307

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 307, a bill 
to enhance the database of emergency response capabilities of the 
Department of Defense.


                                 S. 313

  At the request of Mr. Boozman, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue) was added as a cosponsor of S. 313, a bill to clarify that 
volunteers at a children's consignment event are not employees under 
the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938.


                                 S. 428

  At the request of Mr. Bennet, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 428, a bill to 
amend titles XIX and XXI of the Social Security Act to authorize States 
to provide coordinated care to children with complex medical conditions 
through enhanced pediatric health homes, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 479

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Bennet) was added as a cosponsor of S. 479, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to waive coinsurance under Medicare 
for colorectal cancer screening tests, regardless of whether 
therapeutic intervention is required during the screening.


                                 S. 568

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 568, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to count a period of receipt of 
outpatient observation services in a hospital toward satisfying the 3-
day inpatient hospital requirement for coverage of skilled nursing 
facility services under Medicare.


                                 S. 609

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the name of the Senator from 
Illinois (Mr. Durbin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 609, a bill to 
amend the Department of Veterans Affairs Health Care Programs 
Enhancement Act of 2001 and title 38, United States Code, to require 
the provision of chiropractic care and services to veterans at all 
Department of Veterans Affairs medical centers and to expand access to 
such care and services, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 705

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cruz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 705, a bill to amend the National 
Child Protection Act of 1993 to establish a national criminal history 
background check system and criminal history review program for certain 
individuals who, related to their employment, have access to children, 
the elderly, or individuals with disabilities, and for other purposes.

[[Page S5115]]

  



                                 S. 967

  At the request of Ms. Stabenow, the name of the Senator from 
Louisiana (Mr. Cassidy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 967, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to increase access to 
ambulance services under the Medicare program and to reform payments 
for such services under such program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1002

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the names of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy), the Senator from Maine (Mr. King), and the Senator from 
Arizona (Mr. Flake) were added as cosponsors of S. 1002, a bill to 
enhance the ability of community financial institutions to foster 
economic growth and serve their communities, boost small businesses, 
increase individual savings, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1050

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from New 
York (Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1050, a bill to 
award a Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the Chinese-American 
Veterans of World War II, in recognition of their dedicated service 
during World War II.


                                S. 1127

  At the request of Mr. Paul, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1127, a bill 
to amend title 18, United States Code, to prevent unjust and irrational 
criminal punishments.


                                S. 1158

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1158, a bill to help 
prevent acts of genocide and other atrocity crimes, which threaten 
national and international security, by enhancing United States 
Government capacities to prevent, mitigate, and respond to such crises.


                                S. 1465

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Hatch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1465, a bill to terminate the 
prohibitions on the exportation and importation of natural gas, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1500

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1500, a bill to 
amend the Federal Deposit Insurance Act to ensure that the reciprocal 
deposits of an insured depository institution are not considered to be 
funds obtained by or through a deposit broker, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1568

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the names of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin), the Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen), 
and the Senator from Maine (Mr. King) were added as cosponsors of S. 
1568, a bill to require the Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in 
commemoration of President John F. Kennedy.


                                S. 1589

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1589, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and the Small Business Act to 
expand the availability of employee stock ownership plans in S 
corporations, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1754

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1754, a bill to reauthorize 
section 340H of the Public Health Service Act to continue to encourage 
the expansion, maintenance, and establishment of approved graduate 
medical residency programs at qualified teaching health centers, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 1766

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Hatch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1766, a bill to reauthorize the 
SAFER Act of 2013, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1767

  At the request of Mr. Leahy, the names of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal), the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. 
Murphy), and the Senator from California (Mrs. Feinstein) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1767, a bill to reauthorize the farm to school 
program, and for other purposes.


                              S.J. RES. 49

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the names of the Senator from Iowa (Mr. 
Grassley) and the Senator from Alaska (Mr. Sullivan) were added as 
cosponsors of S.J. Res. 49, a joint resolution condemning the violence 
and domestic terrorist attack that took place during events between 
August 11 and August 12, 2017, in Charlottesville, Virginia, 
recognizing the first responders who lost their lives while monitoring 
the events, offering deepest condolences to the families and friends of 
those individuals who were killed and deepest sympathies and support to 
those individuals who were injured by the violence, expressing support 
for the Charlottesville community, rejecting White nationalists, White 
supremacists, the Ku Klux Klan, neo-Nazis, and other hate groups, and 
urging the President and the President's Cabinet to use all available 
resources to address the threats posed by those groups.


                            S. CON. RES. 12

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. Con. Res. 12, a 
concurrent resolution expressing the sense of Congress that those who 
served in the bays, harbors, and territorial seas of the Republic of 
Vietnam during the period beginning on January 9, 1962, and ending on 
May 7, 1975, should be presumed to have served in the Republic of 
Vietnam for all purposes under the Agent Orange Act of 1991.


                               S. RES. 61

  At the request of Mr. Peters, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
Res. 61, a resolution calling on the Department of Defense, other 
elements of the Federal Government, and foreign governments to 
intensify efforts to investigate, recover, and identify all missing and 
unaccounted-for personnel of the United States.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 269

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 269 intended to 
be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 329

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the names of the Senator from Ohio 
(Mr. Brown) and the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Whitehouse) were 
added as cosponsors of amendment No. 329 intended to be proposed to 
H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for 
military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 410

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 410 intended to 
be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 422

  At the request of Mrs. McCaskill, the name of the Senator from 
Vermont (Mr. Leahy) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 422 
intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for 
fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, 
for military construction, and for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 448

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 448 intended 
to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal 
year 2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for 
military construction, and for defense activities of the Department of 
Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, 
and for other purposes.

[[Page S5116]]

  



                           AMENDMENT NO. 526

  At the request of Mr. Whitehouse, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 526 intended to 
be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 591

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 591 intended to 
be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 592

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the names of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Mr. Schatz), the Senator from New York (Mr. Schumer), the Senator from 
Vermont (Mr. Sanders) and the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Booker) were 
added as cosponsors of amendment No. 592 intended to be proposed to 
H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for 
military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 605

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was withdrawn as a cosponsor of amendment 
No. 605 intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize 
appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the 
Department of Defense, for military construction, and for defense 
activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel 
strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 607

  At the request of Mr. Merkley, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 607 intended 
to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal 
year 2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for 
military construction, and for defense activities of the Department of 
Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, 
and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 608

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 
608 intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the Department of 
Defense, for military construction, and for defense activities of the 
Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for 
such fiscal year, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 750

  At the request of Mr. Whitehouse, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 750 intended to 
be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 756

  At the request of Mr. Van Hollen, the name of the Senator from 
Maryland (Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 756 
intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for 
fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, 
for military construction, and for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 765

  At the request of Mr. Van Hollen, the name of the Senator from 
Maryland (Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 765 
intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for 
fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, 
for military construction, and for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 766

  At the request of Mr. Van Hollen, the name of the Senator from 
Louisiana (Mr. Cassidy) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 766 
intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for 
fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, 
for military construction, and for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 803

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Bennet), the Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey), the Senator 
from Delaware (Mr. Carper), the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Coons), the 
Senator from Illinois (Mr. Durbin), the Senator from New Mexico (Mr. 
Heinrich), the Senator from Michigan (Ms. Stabenow), the Senator from 
Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen) and the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Wyden) were 
added as cosponsors of amendment No. 803 intended to be proposed to 
H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for 
military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 805

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Inhofe) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 805 intended to 
be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 811

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from New 
Mexico (Mr. Udall), the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Whitehouse) and 
the Senator from Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) were added as cosponsors of 
amendment No. 811 intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize 
appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the 
Department of Defense, for military construction, and for defense 
activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel 
strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 838

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 838 
intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for 
fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, 
for military construction, and for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and for other purposes.

                          ____________________



