

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 182 (Wednesday, November 8, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 182 (Wednesday, November 8, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7072-S7097]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE SESSION

                                 ______
                                 

                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, the Senate will 
proceed to executive session and resume consideration of the Robb 
nomination, which the clerk will report.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read the nomination of Peter 
B. Robb, of Vermont, to be General Counsel of the National Labor 
Relations Board for a term of four years.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Arizona.


                Authorization for Use of Military Force

  Mr. FLAKE. Mr. President, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee had 
a very important hearing last week regarding the 2001 authorization for 
use of military force, the law that serves as the legal underpinning 
for the war against al-Qaida and the Taliban. I am grateful to our 
witnesses, Secretaries Mattis and Tillerson, for making themselves 
available to the members of the committee and for the straightforward 
and honest answers they provided to us.
  As we have gotten further and further away from the September 11 
attacks that resulted in the passage of the 2001 AUMF, I have urged 
Congress to take a fresh look at that authorization. When four soldiers 
died recently in Niger, I think most Americans--and even some Members 
of Congress--were shocked to learn that we even had troops in that 
country. Our troops were not there under the auspices of the 2001 AUMF, 
but considering that they were reportedly ambushed and killed at the 
hands of an Islamic State affiliate, questions have been raised about 
where our forces are and where they are at war with terrorists versus 
when they are simply conducting train-and-equip or other missions of 
that sort.
  It was encouraging that nearly every member of the Foreign Relations 
Committee was in attendance at that hearing where the witnesses 
testified that the administration believes it has ample authority to 
prosecute the war on terrorism and does not need a new AUMF.
  I can't say I was surprised to hear that testimony. No 
administration, Republican or Democratic, will ever willingly cede the 
broad authority given to the executive branch 3 days after the 
September 11 attack. If they were to say that we need new 
authorization, they would be conceding that they haven't been acting 
with authorization all this time. So they are never going to say that 
we need a new AUMF.
  What has surprised me is that there are Members of this body, the 
Senate, who are content to let this 16-year old authorization remain in 
place. Some have even suggested that any updates to the AUMF can be 
made using the appropriations process. Are we really going to start 
using policy riders on annual spending bills to approve of sending 
troops into harm's way? We rarely even vote on individual spending 
bills anymore, let alone controversial policy riders to those spending 
bills. Are we truly willing to leave it to the members of the 
Appropriations Committee to update a law that has put our 
servicemembers into harm's way, particularly those of us on the 
authorizing committee, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee? I hope 
that we more jealously guard our prerogatives than that.
  Our inaction on updating the 2001 law has already relegated the role 
of the Senate in authorizing force to that of a cog in the feedback 
loop. I would submit that we in the Senate ought to aspire to be more 
than that.
  For 16 years, Congress has been all too willing to let successive 
administrations use those broad authorities to address new threats and 
to deploy U.S. troops to new places. Beyond Afghanistan, our troops 
have deployed all over the world, to places such as Yemen, the 
Philippines, Somalia, and Libya to fight al-Qaida and its affiliates.
  We have also sent forces to Syria and back to Iraq to defeat ISIS, a 
group that didn't even exist in 2001. We need to fight terrorism 
overseas, and I am not suggesting that the United States should shy 
away from these battles. To the contrary, I believe Congress should do 
its duty in supporting these missions by voting to authorize them.
  In the 16 years since the passage of the 2001 AUMF, approximately 300 
Members of the House who voted on it are no longer with that Chamber. 
In the Senate, of those Senators who voted on the original AUMF, only 
23 Senators remain in their seats today. That leaves approximately 70 
percent of the entire Congress that has never cast a vote to authorize 
military force abroad. Yet, over the years, deployments have continued 
to new places, combating new foes.
  The United States is strongest when we speak with one voice. 
Therefore, Congress must have some buy-in on these missions. Our allies 
and other adversaries need to know that the war on terrorism has the 
support of Congress. More importantly, our troops need to know that 
Congress is behind them.
  I know the concept of passing a new, updated AUMF is a tricky one. 
This is not a conventional war against a sovereign nation in which 
victory is easily defined. Instead, we are fighting an ideological 
enemy that has no sovereignty and which, over the years, has moved all 
over the world, resulting in many splinter factions that could change 
their name at any time with ease.
  This new kind of war requires a new kind of authorization, one that 
allows Congress's continued buy-in and increases its oversight. Right 
now, we have neither of these.
  After working on this issue for several years, Senator Tim Kaine and 
I have introduced legislation that we think gets us in the right place. 
Our bill would authorize the use of military force against al-Qaida and 
the Taliban

[[Page S7073]]

and ISIS. It authorizes force against affiliates of those groups and 
requires the President to report to Congress when he initiates force 
against a new group he designates as being associated with al-Qaida, 
the Taliban, or ISIS. Military operations can begin as soon as the 
President has notified Congress. There is no time-lapse required.
  If Congress doesn't agree with the President's designation, our bill 
allows a 60-day timeframe during which any Member can bring a 
resolution of disapproval to the floor under expedited procedures, and 
adoption of such measure by both Houses would result in the end of 
military operations against that group.
  Our bill adopts the same process with regard to geography to allow 
Congress to disapprove of military operations in a particular country. 
I recognize that traditional declarations of war and other 
authorizations of military force haven't referred to a particular 
geographic area in which operations can take place. But all of our 
previous military engagements were against sovereign nations with armed 
forces, not terrorist groups that can pop up in any country at any 
time.
  If Congress is going to authorize the use of force, we ought to know 
in which countries U.S. troops are operating. Requiring the President 
to notify Congress when he begins operations against one of these 
terrorist groups in a new country is an important check on the 
executive branch to ensure there is no overreach.
  The bar for disapproving the President's decision is high--
appropriately so. It would require two-thirds of the House and the 
Senate to disagree with the President on his decisions with regard to 
new associated forces or new countries.
  Right now, Congress has very little to say over who or where our 
military fights. The only option available is to cut off 
appropriations, and history has demonstrated that simply is not 
realistic or appropriate.
  The most recent example of this, as some of my colleagues will 
recall, was in 2011, when the Obama administration joined the NATO 
operation to help rebels in Libya topple Muammar Qadhafi. The 
administration never made the case to Congress as to what U.S. 
interests were served by U.S. involvement. As a result, many Members on 
both sides of the aisle publicly opposed our intervention in Libya.
  Yet, when the clock ran out on the time constraints set forth in the 
War Powers Resolution, Congress did not turn off appropriations because 
we can't just pull the rug out from underneath servicemembers when they 
are in harm's way overseas. The ``turning off appropriations'' approach 
simply hasn't worked in the past and is not likely to work in the 
future.
  We need real congressional buy-in and oversight over a conflict that 
has morphed considerably since 2001--and which we are now being told is 
morphing to a new continent. S.J. Res. 43 gives us just that.
  I should note that the bill also includes a 5-year sunset. The sunset 
is not intended to serve as a notice that the war on terrorism will end 
in 5 years. It is there to require Congress to put its skin in the game 
by voting on authorizing force.
  The administration has signaled its objection to this provision. They 
think that the war on terrorism could be undermined if terrorists think 
they just have to wait us out.
  I worry more that the lack of congressional buy-in undermines the war 
right here at home. Seventy percent of Congress has no skin in the game 
at all. We are free to criticize the President, whether the President 
is Republican or Democrat. That is not right.
  We ought to have responsibility here. We are the article I branch. We 
are the branch tasked with declaring war and authorizing use of force. 
We shouldn't shirk our responsibility. We can't let history repeat 
itself and go for another 16 years without voting for the use of force 
against terrorists. That is why I support a sunset on any new or 
updated AUMF.
  Perhaps the best feature of the Flake-Kaine measure is that it is 
bipartisan. That is an essential feature. I think we can all agree that 
passing an updated AUMF along party lines is perhaps the only thing 
worse than letting the status quo remain. I commend the chairman of the 
Foreign Relations Committee, Senator Corker, for signaling that we will 
move ahead with the markup of the new AUMF.
  I think Flake-Kaine is a great start, but I am under no illusion that 
the process of putting a bill together that can garner widespread, 
bipartisan support will be an easy one. But the longer we wait, the 
higher the risk becomes that we will render ourselves irrelevant when 
it comes to authorizing force. That is a risk the Senate and Congress 
should not take.
  I yield back.


                   Recognition of the Minority Leader

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Democratic leader is recognized.


                          Republican Tax Plan

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, over the past decade, the American 
economy has generated enormous wealth for wealth holders but, 
painfully, less work and less pay--fewer good-paying jobs--for workers. 
Average folks are having a harder time keeping up with the ever-rising 
costs as the rich get richer and corporate stocks soar.
  Our economy would surely benefit from the kind of tax reform that 
gives small businesses and working Americans a break, while asking the 
wealthiest among us to pay their fair share. ``Their share'' doesn't 
mean they are doing something illegal; it simply means that as wealth 
goes up and so much money agglomerates to the top, for the good of the 
society, the wealthiest should pay more.
  Unfortunately, the Republican Party has decided to pursue a partisan 
tax bill that would spin our economy even further out of whack, 
lavishing tax giveaways on the wealthy and corporate America, while 
raising taxes on millions of middle-class families over 10 years.
  A New York Times analysis found that next year, the House Republican 
tax plan would cause taxes to go up on one-third of all middle-class 
families. Those are families who make--I believe it is between $56,000 
and $150,000. One out of three in that middle-class, upper middle-class 
group is going to pay more in taxes, while those at the highest end get 
huge breaks. By 2026, taxes would go up on nearly half of all middle-
class families.
  I want to salute someone I almost never agree with--Senator Cruz. At 
least yesterday, he had the courage of his convictions to say that no 
middle-class person should pay more, even in New York and California. 
But that is not the case with this bill. Large numbers of people 
throughout the country will pay more. Large numbers of middle-class 
people and people struggling to the middle class will pay more.
  So when Speaker Ryan says that under the House plan ``Everyone enjoys 
a tax cut all across the board,'' as he did yesterday, he is fibbing. I 
really want to use the ``L'' word, but to be nice, I won't. But Speaker 
Ryan, explain to us how you can say with a straight face: ``Everyone 
enjoys a tax cut all across the board.''
  Every independent analysis and the more honest Republicans say that 
some middle-class people--a good number of middle-class people--get a 
tax increase. So Speaker Ryan, take it back. Start telling the truth 
about your bill. We know you are under pressure, but you have always 
been an honorable man, and this tax bill is tying you into a pretzel 
when it comes to telling the truth about it.
  Look at what is done here. The personal exemption, which benefits 
large families, is gone. Yes, the standard deduction doubles, but if 
you have four, five, six children, you still pay more, even before they 
start whacking your State and local deductibility or your college loan 
deductibility or your healthcare deductibility.
  Stunningly, the deduction for catastrophically high medical expenses 
is also gone, meaning that among the hardest hit under this plan would 
be some of the most vulnerable taxpayers. Eight million Americans 
deduct their out-of-pocket medical expenses because they are over 10 
percent of their income. They plan their finances around this 
deduction. These families have someone with a chronic condition--maybe 
an elderly parent who has Alzheimer's, maybe a family with a young kid 
who has cancer.
  I met a lady at the airport yesterday. Her name was Bridget. I didn't 
know who she was. She came over to me pleading. There was sadness in 
her eyes. She said: My son needs an orphan drug. It is very expensive. 
If I can't deduct the expenses, I don't know what I

[[Page S7074]]

am going to do. I won't be able to afford the drug. How can our 
Republican colleagues be so heartless and cruel? I know that you want 
to reduce taxes on corporations, but why do you have to do it at 
Bridget's expense?
  Of course, the House bill takes an ax to State and local 
deductibility, a bedrock middle-class deduction that affects nearly 
every State but hits high tax States, like Virginia, the hardest.
  Any House Republican who watched the returns in the Virginia 
elections last night must be shaken by the overwhelming Democratic 
turnout in suburban areas. According to pollsters, the No. 1 issue was 
healthcare, and this deduction goes. But overall, suburban Virginia 
said no to the Republican way. Suburban families will be the ones hit 
hardest by the elimination of State and local deductions in States like 
Virginia but also in Washington, New Jersey, California, Illinois, 
Minnesota, and Colorado.
  Just last night, we learned from reporting that the Senate bill is 
likely to go even further regarding the State and local deduction--full 
repeal. There are some from my State in New York saying: Well, we have 
a compromise. A, the compromise still eliminates three-fourths of the 
deduction, but, B, that compromise is going bye-bye. The Senate is 
going to get rid of it. You can be sure it won't come back in a 
conference committee.
  So I say to my House colleagues, particularly those from suburban 
districts: Stop the elimination of the State and local deduction now 
before it is too late. If it happens and you vote yes on this bill, you 
will be to blame. There is no way to duck and cover behind the SALT 
compromise any longer because the SALT tax writers have made clear that 
they want to repeal it entirely in the Senate. Because of the stricter 
Senate budget rules, the Senate language is likely to win out over the 
House language.
  Make no mistake about it, a full repeal of the State and local 
deduction is coming down the pike one way or the other. Voting to 
advance the GOP bill is a vote to fully repeal State and local 
deductibility. I say to my Republican friends from all those suburban 
districts where a high percentage of people use the State and local 
deduction: If you think the results in Virginia and New Jersey were 
terrible for you, wait until you pass a bill that raises taxes on large 
swaths of middle-class families in your district.
  The debate over the State and local deduction is illustrative of the 
central problem my Republican friends have with their tax bill. Every 
time you pull in one direction and change something to solve a problem, 
you have to push in another direction, and you end up creating a new 
one. It is like pushing on a balloon.
  Just this morning, Speaker Ryan said the phaseout of middle-class 
deductions would never happen. They are only there to ``game the Senate 
rules.'' Well, if there is no phaseout, the real cost of the bill will 
be much higher. I say to my Senate friends who have talked about making 
sure we don't let the deficit go out of control that Ryan is saying we 
are going to let the deficit go out of control and game the Senate 
rules because the phaseout of middle-class deductions will not happen. 
If there is no real phaseout, the real cost of the bill will be much 
higher. It is a tough pill to swallow to anyone in this setting on the 
Republican side who believes in deficit reduction and who believes 
about $1.5 trillion--their rule--is about as high as you can go.
  All of this is because our Republican colleagues are rushing this 
bill through. Something like this takes care. It takes hearings. It 
takes discussion. It takes experts. It takes affected groups all 
weighing in. That takes a while. That is how it is supposed to work. 
That is how the Founding Fathers wanted it to work. That is how we did 
it with the last successful major tax reform bill in 1986. I was there, 
and I know.
  To rush a bill of this magnitude through the Congress in a span of a 
few weeks, with only one party doing the work, is reckless, it is 
irresponsible, and it will lead to a very bad result. It is why our 
Republican colleagues have such problems.
  I repeat my plea to my colleagues on the other side of the aisle. 
Take a step back and consider doing tax reform the right way--
bipartisan, through the committees, input from both sides. We have 
shown, as in healthcare, when we try, we can work together. The Senator 
from New Hampshire is on the floor. She was one of the leaders in that.
  Earlier this year, we came to a good budget deal. Senators Alexander 
and Murray put together a reasonable compromise on healthcare. We can 
do it again on tax reform. We Democrats want to do real reform, but our 
Republican friends must abandon this partisan, secretive, reckless 
process that will lead to no good for them and for the country and come 
to the table with Democrats.
  One final point on the matter, Republicans repeatedly promised that 
the $1.5 trillion reduction in the corporate tax rate proposed by the 
Ryan-McConnell tax plan will lead the average American family to 
receive a $4,000 raise. Yet corporate profits are already at record 
highs. Wages are relatively stagnant. So color us skeptical that 
showering corporations with new tax brackets that will result in them 
having even more money will end up creating higher wages for workers. 
Far more likely what it will create is another round of stock buybacks 
and dividends, which, by and large, benefit corporate CEOs and the 
wealthy.
  You don't have to take it from me. David Marberger is the executive 
vice president and CFO--chief financial officer--of Conagra, which I 
believe is a major Fortune 500 company. Here is what he told his 
shareholders this fall, the CFO of Conagra: ``In terms of if there is a 
corporate tax reduction and there's more cash, we bounce back to our 
capital allocation''--more stock buybacks.
  Republicans think a corporate tax cut without guardrails would boost 
wages, and we disagree. Later this morning, Democrats will urge our 
Republican colleagues to put their money where their mouth is and prove 
us wrong. We will be offering an amendment that would snap back taxes 
to the old corporate rate if corporations actually fail to boost their 
workers' wages. It is that simple. Put your money where your mouth is. 
The only thing you are hanging your hat on, on this bill, which so 
hurts so many middle-class people is, well, everyone will get a big 
wage increase because we are reducing the corporate rate. We challenge 
you to accept our amendment. If the wages don't go up, the corporate 
decrease in taxes is repealed.
  We are simply telling Republicans, don't write checks to corporations 
that their employees can't cash. If Republicans fail to support this 
amendment, they will confirm that their tax bill is a farce. They 
really don't believe it, when it comes to boosting wages for working 
Americans.
  Mr. President, one final word on the nomination of Mr. Robb to the 
NLRB. The NLRB protects workers' rights to form or join unions, bargain 
collectively with their employers, and act concertedly for mutual aid 
or protection. It is not clear to me, from reviewing Mr. Robb's 
background, that he believes in the mission of the agency.
  In his experience as a labor and employment lawyer, he has defended 
companies against workers' unfair labor practice allegations, age and 
sex discrimination charges, class action age claims, and wage claims. 
The website of Mr. Robb's law firm brags about his efforts to delay and 
defeat union organizing at the Millstone Power Station in Connecticut. 
He was the lead counsel on the notorious Reagan-era case, which 
decertified the air traffic controllers' union. That resulted in 
President Reagan firing 11,000 traffic controllers and barring them 
from Federal service.
  The general counsel for the NLRB sets the priority cases and 
determines when to bring charges against employers. It is a crucial 
role. Peter Robb's record shows he is not up to this job, and he will 
not defend workers in an agency designed to defend workers.
  I will be voting no and urge my colleagues to do the same.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from New Hampshire.


     Foreign Agents Registration Modernization and Enforcement Act

  Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, it is hard to read or to listen to the 
news these days without hearing about Russia's interference in our 
American democracy, its influence peddling, and about the 
misinformation that has

[[Page S7075]]

been spreading on social media. I have bipartisan legislation that 
would address an aspect of this. This legislation is cosponsored by 
Senator Todd Young, and it is legislation that would give law 
enforcement the tools they need to create greater transparency about 
foreign individuals and entities that are operating in the United 
States in the interest of other governments. It would make it easier 
for the public to better track information they are receiving, 
particularly from governments that are hostile to the United States.
  This bill would give the Department of Justice necessary authority to 
investigate potential violations of the Foreign Agents Registration 
Act, which is also known as FARA. We have heard a lot about that. This 
was legislation that was passed during the thirties, as there was fear 
about the rise of Nazism and Hitler in Germany and the effort to spread 
propaganda in the United States.
  This would allow the American public to clearly trace where 
information is coming from and who is paying for it. I think, in this 
age of misinformation, that is especially important to the public.
  At a time when our law enforcement officials, foreign policy experts, 
and leaders continue to grapple with the extent of Russia's intrusion 
into our democratic elections, this legislation is more urgent than 
ever. The need for this legislation is perhaps most clearly 
demonstrated by the case of Russian propaganda networks like RT America 
and Sputnik International. Both networks continually propagate and 
share content and programming that are designed to very subtly confuse 
and influence audiences worldwide. If you have ever listened to either 
of those channels, you will know there is just this subtle difference 
in how they present information.
  In the United States, RT America is available on cable TVs across the 
country. It is considered to be one of the most high-profile assets in 
Vladimir Putin's vast $1.4 billion propaganda machine.
  According to an assessment made public by the U.S. intelligence 
community in January, RT is the Kremlin's ``principal international 
outlet,'' and it is integral to Russia's information warfare operations 
across the globe. The Kremlin selects the staff for RT and closely 
supervises RT's coverage, including disinformation and false news 
stories designed to undermine our democracy. If you have any question 
about that, watch RT here. It is on the cable network here in the DC 
area.
  RT News has publicly boasted that it can dodge our laws by claiming 
to be financed by a nonprofit organization and not by the Russian 
Government. Recently, the Department of Justice asked RT America to, in 
fact, register as a foreign agent. RT rejected an entirely reasonable 
request from the Justice Department to respect our laws. They refused 
to register.
  How did we respond? Well, we continued to allow RT America to spread 
its disinformation and false narratives. This is unacceptable. We 
responded that way because we don't have the teeth we need in the law 
to be able to enforce it. That is what my legislation with Senator 
Young will do. That is why it is so important. It would strengthen FARA 
by giving the Department of Justice authority to compel foreign 
organizations to produce documentation to confirm funding sources and 
foreign connections. This new investigative authority was requested by 
the Department of Justice, and it is supported by the Government 
Accountability Office, the Sunlight Foundation, and the Project on 
Government Oversight. This is a good government piece of legislation.
  In fact, if this authority that we have in our legislation were in 
place today, the Justice Department could immediately investigate RT 
America and publicly expose its ties to the Kremlin. In the absence of 
such authority, all the Justice Department can do is ask RT to 
voluntarily adhere to FARA regulations and hope the propaganda outlet 
complies. What are the odds of that? Pretty slim. Clearly, based on 
RT's refusal to comply with FARA, the Kremlin is well aware of the 
limitations that are inherent in our law.
  As we wait for this commonsense legislation to move forward, the 
Kremlin, RT America, and Sputnik continue to wield their harmful 
propaganda and attempt to influence the American public.
  Since the publication of the intelligence community's January report 
on Russia's interference in our 2016 Presidential election, we have 
learned that Moscow spent millions of dollars buying ads on social 
media sites and search engines, often using the very clips that had 
been aired by RT on its YouTube channel.
  Last week, representatives of American social media companies 
testified before Congress and illustrated the lengths the Kremlin went 
in order to deceptively spread divisive propaganda, all seemingly 
without a trace or any clear indication about the origins of these ads 
and RT's news blasts.
  The misinformation included numerous reports run by RT News on 
supposed U.S. election fraud and voting. So they spread, and they 
clearly intended to spread confusion about our elections in 2016 to try 
and encourage people to believe our elections don't work, to undermine 
our election process. They talked about machine vulnerabilities. They 
claimed the results of U.S. elections could not be trusted and did not 
reflect the people's will. Sadly, too many people saw those stories and 
believed they were real.

  These are not just random examples of fake news. These stories are 
part and parcel of a broader influence campaign designed and directed 
by the Kremlin's leadership and pedaled by government-funded trolls in 
St. Petersburg and other front organizations. So in the same way that 
Russia is building up its military force, its navy, its ability to 
operate in space, and its missile program, it has also built up its 
propaganda campaign in ways that are designed to undermine Western 
democracies. If we don't pay attention to this, then shame on us.
  We are, of course, a resilient democracy. We are confident that our 
values and institutions will prevail in the free marketplace of ideas. 
Our Constitution, unlike Russia's, protects the right of individuals 
and organizations to spread Russian viewpoints, disinformation, and, 
even, outright lies. But no organization, including RT America or any 
other front outlet for a country that is hostile to the United States, 
has the right to conceal a foreign funding source and thumb its nose at 
requests from our Department of Justice.
  The American people have a right to know if RT America is a Russian 
propaganda organization that takes its direction from the Kremlin. They 
have a right to know who is funding those programs and what kind of 
misinformation they are spreading.
  To that end, I urge my colleagues to put an end to the Kremlin's 
charade by supporting the Foreign Agents Registration Modernization and 
Enforcement Act. Let's give the Department of Justice the tools it 
needs to investigate and expose RT America and to fight back against 
the Kremlin's interference in our democracy.
  Thank you, Mr. President.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Sullivan). Without objection, it is so 
ordered.
  Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to speak as in 
morning business for up to 10 minutes.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                         Honoring Our Veterans

  Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I rise today to commemorate the 
courageous service and selfless sacrifice of our Nation's veterans.
  Honoring our veterans is one of the greatest privileges I have as a 
Senator, which is why I often attend celebrations in Arkansas to 
acknowledge and salute some of the brave men and women who have served 
our Nation in uniform.
  I recently had the pleasure to recognize the service and valor of 15 
Arkansas veterans during the Arkansas Military Veterans' Hall of Fame 
induction ceremony. The class of 2017 inductees comes from all across 
Arkansas. These veterans served in conflicts ranging from World War II 
through the War on

[[Page S7076]]

Terror. Together, they have earned some of our Nation's most 
prestigious honors and commendations, including the Purple Heart, the 
Bronze Star, the Distinguished Flying Cross, the Legion of Merit, and 
the Silver Star Medal for gallantry.
  I also had the opportunity to present three Arkansas veterans with 
the medals and commendations they had earned when I attended the 
Veterans Day celebration in Fort Smith, AR. I am proud of the work that 
we do to obtain the service medals and recognition that these heroes 
have earned.
  We have also worked hard to honor the efforts of Mr. Errol Severe, of 
Eureka Springs, AR, as he strives to preserve and promote the role of 
joint service aviation cadets in the 20th century. Mr. Severe, an Air 
Force veteran, operates the Aviation Cadet Museum, which is the only 
museum in the United States that exists exclusively to celebrate the 
teamwork, collaboration, patriotism, and courage of the individuals who 
trained for and fought in the national aviation effort from 1917 to 
1965.
  As we recognize our veterans and honor the sacrifice and heroism of 
those who have been called to serve our Nation in uniform, we must 
recommit ourselves to fighting on their behalf. As a member of the 
Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee, I am committed to honoring the 
promise made to our veterans.
  We have made tremendous progress during this Congress. In June, 
President Trump signed the Department of Veterans Affairs 
Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act. This strengthens 
accountability at the Department of Veterans Affairs by allowing the VA 
to dismiss bad employees while protecting those who expose wrongdoing.
  We are also continuing to improve the Choice Act. Earlier this year, 
we hosted listening sessions with Arkansas veterans to obtain their 
input on the strengths and the weaknesses of the program, as Congress 
continues to expand access to adequate healthcare options for veterans.
  In addition, we enhanced the post-9/11 GI bill benefits to increase 
educational opportunities. I am proud to have played a role in crafting 
this law, along with my colleague from Oregon, Senator Wyden. I am 
pleased that he can join me on the floor to recognize the importance of 
the provision we have championed for several years to fix an oversight 
that prevented combat-injured members of the National Guard and Reserve 
from receiving the same GI bill benefits as Active-Duty military 
members. This is a great example of Senators on both sides of the aisle 
working together to get things done.
  Fixing this clear oversight in the law that unfairly penalized 
wounded and injured servicemembers and kept them from accruing 
educational benefits they rightly earned while in recovery was a 
priority for both of us because these men and women deserved better. To 
correct this injustice, we introduced legislation earlier this year, as 
well as in the last Congress, and I am pleased that it was included in 
the comprehensive GI reform bill that was signed into law this summer.
  While we have made improvements, there is still more that needs to be 
done, including the expansion of VA services for female veterans. I 
encourage my colleagues to support the Deborah Sampson Act to address 
these concerns, and I urge VA Secretary Shulkin to implement reforms 
written in the bill that don't require congressional action. Our work 
must continue.
  Today, my colleague from Indiana, Senator Donnelly, and I will 
introduce legislation to allow veterans who served in Thailand during 
the Vietnam war era the opportunity to prove toxic exposure in order to 
qualify for VA benefits.
  Let me take one more opportunity to thank our veterans and their 
families. This country made a promise to our veterans that we must live 
up to, and I am proud to be able to work for them to ensure that we 
follow through with our commitment.
  The men and women who put their lives on the line in defense of our 
country deserve our undying gratitude. They also deserve our support 
when they transition back into civilian life, which is why we must 
support efforts to improve their health, their ability to further their 
education needs, and to pursue their dreams, just as they fought to 
make that possible for their fellow Americans. That sentiment is shared 
throughout this Chamber. For all of our disagreements in Washington, we 
truly do come together in support of our veterans. That is one area of 
agreement.
  I thank Senator Wyden for his leadership to ensure equal treatment of 
education benefits for wounded guardsmen and reservists. I was very 
proud to work with him in support of this efforts, and I look forward 
to working with him in the future.
  Our guardsmen and reservists are called to defend and protect our 
Nation, exactly like Active-Duty members. So it is only right that they 
receive the same GI bill benefits.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Nebraska.


                Recognizing the Nebraska National Guard

  Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I rise today to recognize the men and 
women of the Nebraska National Guard. For more than 150 years, the 
Nebraska National Guard has been protecting our State and keeping our 
Nation safe.
  Established in 1854, the Guard predates the founding of the State of 
Nebraska by 12 years, and those who serve in its ranks today carry on a 
proud tradition. Whenever the Nation calls, Nebraska Guard men and 
women have been at the leading edge, responding in times of military 
need and national crisis.
  When the shadow of fascism spread across Europe in World War II, 
Nebraska's 134th Infantry Regiment was there to bring the light of 
democracy back to the continent, liberating the French city of Saint-Lo 
from Nazi occupation.
  When terrorists struck on September 11, the Nebraska National Guard 
was there to answer the call. In the time since, over 10,000 Nebraska 
Guard soldiers and airmen have deployed to fight the War on Terror and 
serve in defense of our Nation. This means that in the last 16 years, 
there have been only 3 days when every Nebraska soldier and airman was 
at home with their loved ones. Saying no is not part of the culture of 
the Nebraska National Guard. When the Nation calls, there is no 
hesitation. They go where the mission requires them to go.
  At this very moment, we can find Nebraska soldiers and airmen 
deployed all across the globe, protecting our great Nation. Whether it 
is the dozens of National Guard men and women who are currently 
conducting detainee operations at Guantanamo Bay or those preparing to 
deploy next year to key positions in the Pacific and the Middle East, 
our Guard stands ready to answer the call.
  The Guard is also playing an important role in working with our 
allies abroad. Since 1993, the Nebraska National Guard has been linked 
with the Czech Republic through the State Partnership Program. As 
Eastern Europe emerged from the heavy hand of communism, the Nebraska 
National Guard was there working side by side with their military to 
collaborate, share, and assist, forging a lasting bond that remains 
strong to this day. This year marks the 25th anniversary of that 
partnership, and we are all extremely proud of the work our Guard is 
doing to help bring our democracies together.
  That spirit of service extends to their operations here in the 
homeland as well. When hurricanes so tragically struck our neighbors in 
Texas, Florida, the Virgin Islands, and Puerto Rico, the Nebraska Guard 
was there to help. The numbers speak for themselves. In Texas, they 
rescued 461 people and delivered 142,000 pounds of cargo, 6,000 pounds 
of bottled water, and 1,000 pounds of medical supplies. During 
Hurricane Irma, 102 members participated in an aviation task force for 
support operations. Right now, 58 soldiers and airmen are providing 
assistance to the Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico.
  The scope of their response to these disasters is a testament to 
their dedication and showcases the flexibility of the Guard's mission. 
Whether it is responding to domestic emergencies, overseas combat, or 
reconstruction missions, these men and women are there to respond with 
speed, efficiency, and strength.
  One of the most impressive things about the Nebraska National Guard 
is that these are regular, everyday citizens who decided to answer the 
call to serve. They are our neighbors, our

[[Page S7077]]

friends, our spouses, sons and daughters, ordinary Nebraskans from 
every background who decided to put on the uniform and make a 
difference. That is why I am so honored to have a group of the Nebraska 
National Guard's men and women visiting Washington today. I wish to 
take this opportunity to personally thank them, their families, and 
loved ones who support them, and all of our National Guard soldiers and 
airmen for their good service. The Nebraska National Guard has seen a 
lot of change in its history, but one thing remains the same: They 
stand ready to serve.
  Mr. President, I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Oregon.


                          GI Bill Fairness Act

  Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, one of the great privileges of this job and 
the honor of representing Oregon in the U.S. Senate is seeing the way 
Oregonians of all backgrounds and beliefs come together to support 
those who wear or have worn the uniform of the U.S. military. When it 
comes to honoring our veterans, Oregonians and so many across the 
country think in terms of patriotism, not politics and certainly not 
partisanship. There is not a Democratic or a Republican way to support 
our veterans; there is an American way.
  Recently, I was very pleased to join Senator Moran and Senator Tester 
to introduce bipartisan legislation that would expand the presumption 
to veterans exposed to Agent Orange in the Korean Demilitarized Zone. 
The VA currently presumes that veterans who served in the Korean DMZ 
from 1968 to 1971 were exposed to Agent Orange, but there is evidence 
that veterans were exposed to toxins all the way back to 1967. Our 
bipartisan bill would extend the presumption date back, making it 
easier for veterans to apply for and receive care and benefits.
  It is a good bill. It is a bipartisan bill. As we head to Veterans 
Day, I want to make it clear that I am going to do everything I can to 
make this bill law soon.
  Given the fact that we will all be home this weekend, I also want to 
take a few minutes to discuss another bipartisan piece of legislation 
that is important to the welfare of our veterans and a proposal that 
recently became law.
  A few years ago, I learned that wounded members of the National Guard 
and Reserve were losing out on benefits under the GI Bill for time they 
spent in rehabilitation and recovery. These are men and women who put 
their lives on hold to serve our country abroad, and when they suffered 
injuries in the line of duty, their time spent recovering didn't count 
toward GI Bill benefits, even though it did for Active-Duty 
servicemembers in the same situation.
  I think it is an understatement to say that is certainly a real head-
scratcher, to not stand up for our Guard and Reserve to make sure they 
are not losing out on benefits under the GI Bill for the time they 
spend in recovery and rehab. In effect, the Federal law was adding 
insult to injury by robbing wounded guardsmen and reservists of 
benefits they earned and should have been receiving all along. 
Estimates show that more than 20,000 servicemembers across our country 
were affected.
  I approached our friend and colleague from Arkansas, Senator Boozman, 
and he graciously agreed to team up with me. Senator Boozman made it 
clear that a fellow from Arkansas and a fellow from Oregon were going 
to team up, leave the politics behind, and fix an injustice. We brought 
together a bipartisan group. We worked with the Committee on Veterans' 
Affairs, and we were able to get the bill across the finish line. As of 
now, wounded guardsmen and reservists will get the education benefits 
they have rightly earned.
  Especially today, when people are asking about the divisiveness and 
polarization that now consumes so much of the political debate, I 
wanted Senators to know that I really appreciate Senator Boozman always 
trying to be constructive and a problem-solver. And this is one problem 
that is getting solved.
  The law will apply retroactively, meaning that eligible veterans who 
already lost out will be made whole. Because it is so counterintuitive 
for servicemembers to lose benefits for being wounded--just think about 
that, servicemembers losing benefits for being wounded--many of our 
veterans haven't learned they were missing out. They never knew they 
were missing out. That is why I am very pleased, as I know Senator 
Boozman is, that our law applies retroactively to all service after the 
9/11 attacks.
  I think it is true that success has a thousand parents, and if I 
thanked everybody on both sides of the aisle for all the work that went 
into this important bill, we would be here until suppertime tonight. 
But I do especially want to thank our colleagues, Senators Markey and 
McCain. They lent important support along the way, as did Chairman 
Johnny Isakson and Ranking Member Jon Tester. Representative Mark 
Takano of California has also been an exceptional advocate in the other 
body.
  I also wish to give a special thank-you to MAJ Steve Warren, a 
Department of Defense fellow in my office at the dawn of the process. 
He is considered a real rock star in terms of working for veterans. He 
did so much to bring this injustice to light and then worked diligently 
toward a solution. I think it is the judgment of everybody involved 
that without Steve's inspiration and perspiration, it would have been 
hard to see this injustice fixed and our even being here today, as we 
head to Veterans Day, to talk about it.
  I close by way of saying that in this time of partisan rancor and the 
back-and-forth that consumes so much of the political debate in 
Washington, I think what we have shown with this piece of legislation 
and its importance is that our veterans continue to be a unifying 
force. This good will comes from a deep respect for the All-Volunteer 
Force and for the sacrifices made by military families. It also stems 
from an appreciation for the role our veterans play in so many 
communities. In Oregon, our vets are small business owners, coders, 
mill workers, and educators. They help students at the Youth Challenge 
Program in Bend, and they help us fight fires. And suffice it to say, 
this year those fires were big, they were long, they were brutal, and 
we saw fires nobody could have even believed could happen, such as the 
one that jumped the Columbia River.
  It doesn't mean that Congress, even with this legislation, always 
gets it right with respect to veterans. There is a whole lot more to be 
done, particularly ensuring timely access to top-quality healthcare 
through the VA or outside of it and ensuring that guardsmen and 
reservists get treated fairly and equitably.
  I want to say this again on the eve of our taking time out 
specifically to honor veterans--although in our State, we believe that 
every day is really Veterans Day--I want to renew my pledge to the 
people of Oregon that I and my staff will keep working until our vets 
receive the care and treatment they have earned. We hope the success of 
our GI Bill Fairness Act demonstrates what can be done when the 
Congress sets aside all this business of trying to point score on 
partisanship and puts veterans first.
  Mr. President, I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I come to the floor to do what the Trump 
administration has failed to do; that is, to stand up for working 
families and fight for an economy that actually works for all, not just 
for the richest among us.
  On the campaign trail, President Trump made promise after promise to 
workers. He promised to put them first and bring back good-paying jobs 
to their communities. Yet, since day one of his Presidency, we have 
seen him do just the opposite. His administration has rolled back 
protections for workers and families and prioritized corporate profits 
over working families' financial security.
  He has put forth nominee after nominee who puts industry interests 
above the needs of families, like William Wehrum, President Trump's 
nominee to lead the EPA's Office of Air and Radiation. Mr. Wehrum is 
someone who

[[Page S7078]]

has worked to undermine the core mission of the office he would 
oversee. He is a nominee who has demonstrated a willingness to side 
with protecting Big Business instead of protecting our Nation's most 
valuable resources and whose independence is truly in question.
  Unfortunately, when looking at President Trump's record as a 
businessman, these decisions do not come as a surprise. President Trump 
spent decades as a real estate developer, cheating workers and 
contractors out of their hard-earned pay, and he refused to allow his 
own hotel workers to join together and advocate for safer working 
conditions and better wages.
  President Trump's vision of our economy is one in which workers bear 
the burden, and the people who live in gilded towers get the benefit. 
The contrast with Democrats could not be clearer. Last week, Democrats 
rolled out an ambitious agenda to reform our labor laws to, once again, 
empower workers to join together, make their voices heard, and fight 
for better wages and benefits.
  Currently, it is extremely difficult for workers to seek justice when 
corporations violate their rights, and if we want to rebuild the middle 
class, we have to change that because workers having the right to 
organize and join unions helped to build the middle class we have 
today. For many workers in the 20th century, good union jobs helped 
them to support their families and climb the economic ladder, but over 
the past few decades, our economy has worked in favor of corporations 
and those at the top. As corporate management and special interests 
have undermined workers in their right to collectively bargain, we have 
seen, of course, a decline in unions and union membership across the 
country. This has allowed President Trump and billionaires like him to 
take advantage of their workers, and it has given workers little 
recourse in standing up and fighting for better working conditions.
  The preamble of the National Labor Relations Act clearly states that 
it is the policy of the United States to encourage collective 
bargaining to give workers a voice, allowing them to speak up for fair 
wages and safe working conditions, and it is the responsibility of the 
NLRB to ensure that workers' rights are protected so they are not taken 
advantage of. The NLRB gives workers the opportunity to file charges 
against corporations when they are illegally fired or retaliated 
against for exercising their rights, and because President Trump's own 
businesses have had complaints filed against them numerous times, it is 
so critical now that the Board is independent and committed to that 
core mission.
  Unfortunately, I have serious concerns about Mr. Robb's commitment to 
that core mission and to supporting workers' rights so more families, 
not fewer, have financial security. Mr. Robb has spent most of his 
career as a corporate lawyer, representing Big Business and seeking to 
limit the rights that workers are guaranteed under the National Labor 
Relations Act--the very law he is now asking to be in charge of and 
enforce. He has defended companies against unfair labor allegations, 
age and discrimination charges, and unfair wage and hour claims. If he 
is confirmed, Mr. Robb will have the sole decision-making power as to 
which cases will be brought before the NLRB.
  Given his long history of defending corporations, I don't believe 
workers can trust him to act with their best interests at heart or to 
stand up to President Trump and his vision of an economy that works for 
those at the top but that undercuts workers' wages, safety, and rights.
  I will be voting no on Mr. Robb's nomination, and I urge my 
colleagues to do the same. I know every single one of my colleagues has 
spoken to working families in his State who feel left behind today--
families who work full time and who are saving what they can. They are 
struggling to make ends meet. It is time that we stop prioritizing 
corporate profits and start focusing on those workers and our middle 
class. We can only strengthen our economy if we give workers a voice in 
it.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                       Texas Church Mass Shooting

  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, as the world now knows, there was a tragic 
shooting in Sutherland Springs, TX, last Sunday, which took the lives 
of 26 innocent people and injured 20 more. On Monday evening there was 
a prayer vigil for those victims. The community gathered to pray and to 
pay their respects to the deceased.
  There are two people in particular who were in attendance, whom I 
want to highlight: Stephen Willeford and Johnnie Langendorff. I 
mentioned them yesterday, and perhaps you have seen them on the news, 
but I have been thinking a lot about them lately. In addition to the 
tragedy, this was really one of the things that gives you a little hope 
amidst the terrible circumstances. Stephen, of course, is the man who 
responded to the shooter's rampage by grabbing his rifle and running 
toward the First Baptist Church. Johnnie drove the truck that chased 
the gunman down at high speed. In typical Texas fashion, these two 
gentlemen don't consider themselves to be heroes, but I consider them 
to be heroes. They said that they were just doing what needed to be 
done. Johnnie said it was an ``act now, ask questions later'' kind of 
deal.
  I think we in Washington should take more of our cues from people 
like Johnnie and Stephen. We should show courage, track down anything 
that is not right, and do our very best to fix it. In particular, 
Stephen Willeford--maybe you have to be a Texan or an Alaskan to really 
appreciate what he did. From what I have read, he was an NRA-certified 
shooting instructor. He apparently heard the shooting at the church, 
grabbed his gun and went there and, basically, ended up stopping the 
shooter from killing more people.
  The shooter apparently had accumulated enough ammunition to do a lot 
more damage than he did, but, thanks to the intervention of this 
concerned citizen, this person who was willing to put himself in harm's 
way actually shot the shooter and discouraged him from doing more. But 
for his actions, a lot more people would have died on that terrible, 
terrible Sunday.
  The police can't be everywhere all of the time. That is one reason 
why, in my State and around the country, we believe that citizens ought 
to be able to defend themselves under appropriate circumstances.
  We now know that the gunman was court-martialed by the Air Force and 
convicted of serious domestic abuse. Under current Federal law, this 
should have prohibited him from ever purchasing a firearm. The fact 
that it didn't means that we need to figure out why Federal law wasn't 
followed and make darn sure that the relevant information is always 
uploaded into the background check databases.
  There were multiple errors--human and systematic errors--that should 
have prevented this shooter from ever buying a firearm. He unlawfully 
purchased four firearms that he wasn't permitted to purchase. Federal 
background checks did not turn up his Air Force conviction for domestic 
violence, a felony, for fracturing the skull of his infant stepson. 
These convictions were not uploaded on the NICS Federal database.
  I plan to introduce legislation--and I have been talking to a number 
of colleagues on both sides of the aisle who are interested in 
providing a solution to this problem, but we are going to introduce 
legislation to ensure that all Federal departments and agencies, 
including the Department of Defense, upload the required conviction 
records. My legislation will also encourage to the greatest extent 
possible under the Constitution that State and local governments do the 
same.
  We all remember the terrible shooting that occurred at Virginia Tech 
a few years ago by a person who had already been adjudicated to be 
mentally ill by the State, but because the State did not upload that 
information into the Federal database when he went to buy a firearm, 
there was no hit, no disqualifier that appeared that would have 
prevented him from buying that

[[Page S7079]]

firearm in the first place. We need to make sure those systems work 
every time.
  What Sutherland Springs has exposed is that the Federal Government is 
failing to comply with reporting requirements. This is unacceptable, 
and it must change.
  Yesterday, Gen. David Goldfein, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, 
came by my office, and I am grateful to him for that. I told him that 
it must have been one of his worst days when he found out that the Air 
Force had failed to notify the Federal authorities of the information 
that would have disqualified this individual from buying a firearm. He 
appropriately expressed grave concern over the fact that the gunman's 
convictions were not sent to the NICS database. He pledged to get to 
the root of the problem, and I believe him.
  It is worth noting that we have tried to address similar problems 
before, and we can do it again. In 2015, I introduced a bill called the 
Mental Health and Safe Communities Act, which addressed a related 
issue, and that was the failure of State and local authorities to 
upload valuable mental health records into this same NICS database.
  I think there is a bipartisan willingness in this Chamber to work on 
problems inherent in the sharing of these records, and I hope my 
colleagues will join with me in supporting this new legislation once it 
is introduced. We are shooting for the first part of next week. We owe 
it to the men and women and the families of Sutherland Springs to make 
sure that our laws are enforced and that individuals like this shooter 
with a history of violence do not gain illegal access to firearms.


                               Tax Reform

  Mr. President, I want to address the work that the House Ways and 
Means Committee is currently engaged in and what we will be doing in 
the U.S. Senate to reform our overly complex, burdensome, and self-
destructive tax system. I think there is a lot of momentum gathering 
each day.
  Yesterday, Senator McConnell, the majority leader, commented on our 
once-in-a-generation opportunity to overhaul our Tax Code. To 
accomplish this goal, both the House and the Senate are moving forward 
on different proposals.
  This week, the House Ways and Means Committee completed its first 2 
days of discussing the House bill unveiled last week called the Tax 
Cuts and Jobs Act. At the same time, the Senate Finance Committee is 
continuing its work too. Chairman Hatch will continue to guide the 
committee through an open process, and members will have the chance to 
engage in productive discussions and debate. That will start once the 
chairman's mark or the base bill is released, hopefully by later this 
week. Perhaps as early as next week, we will begin the process in the 
Senate Finance Committee of marking up that bill, with Senators 
offering amendments and voting on it. Once both Houses of Congress have 
completed their work, my hope is that we can get this bill on the 
President's desk by Christmas.
  Some of our colleagues across the aisle, instead of contributing to 
the solution to this overly complex and self-destructive Tax Code, have 
been lobbing insults from their partisan bunkers, even though many of 
them have endorsed many aspects of the plans in years past. For 
example, early on, interestingly, there was criticism of our desire to 
make our global tax system more competitive so that more businesses 
will move their manufacturing facilities back to the United States and 
so that we can stamp more of their products ``Made in America,'' 
creating more jobs here. It is ironic because they were criticizing us 
for giving tax relief to businesses when people like President Barack 
Obama, back in 2011, had endorsed the very same concept, not to mention 
the ranking member of the Senate Finance Committee, Senator Wyden, and 
Senator Schumer. All of them have endorsed similar proposals, yet they 
were quick to criticize us for doing exactly the same things that they 
themselves had previously endorsed. Unfortunately, our Democratic 
friends are quick to criticize our plans not just because they disagree 
with them on the merits but simply because it is our proposal and they 
are not interested in working with us across party lines.
  This is really a shame and a lost opportunity. People are crying out 
for Democrats and Republicans to work together in the best interests of 
the country. Unfortunately, our Democratic friends are simply ignoring 
the urgency of the situation--the stagnation of American workers' wages 
and couples finding it harder to start families or, once they do, pay 
for a college education. As my friend the junior Senator from Florida, 
Senator Rubio, wrote a few days ago in the New York Times, it is more 
than time to reconcile ``our social contract to the realities that 
working families face.''
  The Tax Code has not been comprehensively overhauled since 1986. Now 
that some of us are trying to, the swamp is fighting back. It is 
important that we win this fight against the swamp--the special 
interest groups that try to come in and protect various special-
interest tax provisions that make our code unnecessarily complicated, 
forcing us to look for additional revenue from other sources because 
they want to protect theirs at the expense of the rest of the country.
  But the do-nothing approach of the recent past will not work. We 
can't let them stop us because hard-working families are waiting. They 
are waiting on us to quit stuffing our own pockets and start putting 
money back into theirs.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The bill clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                           Order of Procedure

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that 
notwithstanding rule XXII, at 3:45 p.m. today there be 30 minutes of 
postcloture time remaining on the Robb nomination, equally divided 
between the leaders or their designees; that following the use or 
yielding back of that time, the Senate vote on the confirmation of the 
Robb nomination; and that if confirmed, the motion to reconsider be 
considered made and laid upon the table and the President be 
immediately notified of the Senate's action; finally, that there be 2 
minutes of debate equally divided prior to the cloture vote on the 
Wehrum nomination.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
  Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Hawaii.
  Ms. HIRONO. Mr. President, Donald Trump has consistently made 
promises to the American people that he refuses to keep. He says one 
thing and does the exact opposite. His empty promises have already hurt 
millions of people across the country, from our seniors who depend on 
Medicare and Medicaid, to the LGBTQ community he promised to protect 
and Dreamers living in fear of deportation.
  Now, with the nomination of Peter Robb to serve as the General 
Counsel at the National Labor Relations Board, or NLRB, Donald Trump 
has broken yet another promise--this time, to fight for and protect 
American workers. As an independent agency, the NLRB has an important 
mission to enforce our Nation's labor laws, protect American workers, 
and safeguard their right to organize collectively.
  The NLRB's mission is not to ignore our Nation's labor laws, to go 
after American workers, or to weaken their right to organize. Yet Peter 
Robb's career has been dedicated to doing all the things that NLRB is 
not about.
  Joining the anti-union, anti-worker forces, President Trump has 
consistently nominated people to the NLRB who are best positioned to 
destroy and undermine the core functions of the agency itself. Earlier 
this year, President Trump forced through two management-side lawyers 
to create an anti-worker majority on the NLRB.
  Today the Senate is debating the nomination of someone who has spent 
his entire legal career fighting to screw over the very workers the 
NLRB is supposed to protect. If confirmed as General Counsel, Mr. Robb 
will be responsible for supervising nearly 1,500 agents investigating 
and prosecuting unfair labor practice cases and overseeing elections 
where workers decide whether or not to unionize. This is a position

[[Page S7080]]

of great consequence for millions of workers across our country, and 
they deserve someone much better than Peter Robb.
  Mr. Robb has spent his career defending management and employers from 
workers fighting to form a union, unionized workers on strike, and 
workers who brought forward discrimination and disability claims. You 
don't have to take my word for it. Mr. Robb's biography on his own law 
firm's website tells the story clearly:

       [His] extensive experience includes advising on mergers/
     acquisitions, plant closings, labor contract negotiations 
     (both large and small), managing lockouts and strikes, 
     securing labor injunctions, discrimination issues and 
     disability claims.
       His litigation includes defending employers from unfair 
     labor practice charges, age and sex discrimination charges, 
     class action age claims, and wage/hour claims as well as 
     bringing suits against labor organizations. With such vast 
     experience and a no-nonsense approach, Peter's clients look 
     to him for sharp advice, rigorous representation and powerful 
     litigation.

  That is a description on his own law firm's website.
  Mr. Robb cut his teeth busting unions and retaliating against workers 
as lead counsel at the NLRB in the early 1980s when President Reagan 
decertified the air traffic controllers union, fired 11,000 air traffic 
controllers, and barred them from Federal service. More recently, he 
represented Dominion Energy's successful attempt to defeat a union 
organizing campaign at a power station in Connecticut.
  Management and corporations have a right to hire lawyers like Mr. 
Robb who will vigorously represent their interests, but Mr. Robb is 
certainly not the right person to lead an agency whose mission is to 
protect workers' rights, not to go after those rights tooth and nail. 
Mr. Robb's record clearly demonstrates that he will side with powerful 
corporations and special interests over workers who lack the resources 
to defend themselves.
  Unions built the middle class in Hawaii and across our country. 
Instead of confirming another management protector at the NLRB, we 
should be working together to protect workers and make it fairer for 
them to form and to join a union, which is their right.
  I urge my colleagues to join me in opposing this nominee.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Washington.


                           Affordable Housing

  Ms. CANTWELL. Mr. President, I rise to talk about the affordable 
housing crisis that is gripping our Nation. When I say ``crisis,'' I 
mean I know that people here are on the precipice of talking about what 
we are going to do in response to Hurricanes Harvey and Irma and Maria, 
and I would like to say, the housing crisis that will exist in the 
aftermath of those hurricanes is real, but there are also even greater 
implications from the housing crisis that exist today without those 
hurricanes, and it is only going to continue to grow and get worse 
until we deal with it.
  This past February, more than 2,000 families packed into the New 
Holly Gathering Hall in South Seattle. Each family was hoping to hear 
its name called. It wasn't a contest. It wasn't a game. It wasn't the 
lottery. It was a lottery to see if families could get affordable 
homes.
  The Mercy Othello Plaza would soon open 108 affordable housing units. 
That is hardly a match for the more than 2,000 families who were 
interested in trying to get into one of those affordable units. Based 
on the numbers alone, their chance of getting an affordable home was 
lower than an applicant's chance of getting into Harvard.
  Ninety-five percent of the families attending that night left 
disappointed, continuing to search for affordable housing. This is just 
one story of how the affordable housing crisis is gripping our Nation. 
I am sure every one of my colleagues in the Senate could talk about a 
story they have heard in their State because this crisis impacts every 
State. It impacts every community, both urban and rural alike.
  As I have traveled across the State of Washington, I have seen some 
of the most hard-hit areas for affordable housing. I even have veterans 
returning home not being able to find affordable housing. I have seen 
an aging population living longer and also not having the resources 
when looking for affordable housing. I have seen young workers who want 
to be close to where their employment is and yet having to drive so far 
away because that is the only place they could find affordable housing. 
We have seen homelessness in numbers that harken back to previous days 
when we had a true recession.
  The most damning part of the housing crisis is, we know how to solve 
it. We just need the courage to act.
  For decades, the housing growth was the most stimulative part of our 
economy. Throughout the 1980s, housing was 18 percent of GDP. Today 
that number has dropped to just 15 percent. When people discuss tax 
reform and GDP growth, housing is still one of the ways that economists 
will tell us that we can grow GDP.
  In the sixties, seventies, and eighties, if somebody asked, How do we 
stimulate our economy, usually a cheer would go up for housing, but 
since the economic downturn, we haven't heard that cheer. In fact, it 
is almost as if we have forgotten how stimulative housing is to our 
economy.
  The total number of houses built between 2007 and 2016 total just 8.9 
million units, which is far below the 15 million-plus average for every 
10-year period through the seventies and nineties. We are off the pace 
of what it takes to provide affordable housing. As a result, the 
vacancy rates and inventories of homes for sale have also fallen. The 
national vacancy rate--which is the number of homes for sale--has 
receded to the 2000 level, erasing all the runup we saw in the housing 
boom. Moreover, homeownership in the United States is now at its lowest 
rate since the 1960s.
  Twenty million American families, including 11 million renters, are 
now spending more than half of their income on housing. That means less 
money for other essentials like food and healthcare and gas.
  The National Low Income Housing Coalition tells us that 7.4 million 
more available affordable homes are needed because we have seen an 
increase of 60 percent since the year 2000 in the need for affordable 
housing.
  So the United States has become a rent-burdened economy. If we don't 
address this crisis, the problem is only going to get worse. In fact, 
one study found that if we don't address this crisis, we are going to 
see another 25-percent increase in the number of Americans spending 
more than half of their income in rent.
  I know my colleagues on the other side of the aisle in the House of 
Representatives are talking about what they want to do in tax reform. I 
would say they should look at this data as it relates to where we are 
with homeownership and housing and things that would eliminate the 
private activity bonds--one of the key drivers of affordable housing 
production. It would be a big mistake if they got rid of that. 
Obviously, there are units of affordable housing that are being planned 
and built right now. In fact, one estimate is that over 1,000,000 units 
wouldn't be completed just because of the House provision.
  Obviously, limiting the mortgage interest deduction for new 
homeowners could potentially increase taxes on homeowners and thereby 
limit the number of people who could afford a home. Almost one-third of 
taxpayers nationally claim the property tax deductions. They could also 
see an impact to that. I hope our House colleagues and our Senate 
colleagues will see, in light of the housing crisis, what a terrible 
idea those things are.
  How did we get to this crisis as it exists now? Part of the issue was 
demand. For starters, the 2007 housing crash pushed millions of 
families into the rental market and reduced wages on working families. 
The demand for rental housing skyrocketed.
  Over 7 million Americans lost their homes to foreclosure, and they 
demanded more affordable places to live. Today the homeownership rate 
is the lowest in our Nation since the 1960s. The last 10 years have 
seen the largest gain of renters on record. The demand for rental 
housing shows no sign of slowing down.
  Millennials, like many of the young people we see who want to be 
close to jobs in our burgeoning economy, are forced to rent instead of 
own. They are seeing that challenged, in big numbers, by the fact that 
there is not enough supply.

[[Page S7081]]

  At the same time demand was going up from returning veterans, from 
aging seniors, from workplace needs, from many more people needing 
affordable housing after being pushed out of the homeownership market--
at the same time demand was going up, supply failed to keep pace. 
Affordable housing stock is being, and was being, converted to market 
rate-based units. That means they got taken out of the affordability 
framework.
  A new report found that the number of apartments being deemed 
affordable for low-income families dropped 60 percent over the last 6 
years.
  With all this pressure and demand of people falling out of home and 
back into the market and pushing things down, we saw so many units that 
were affordable units get transferred over to market-based rates and 
thereby losing supply.
  The new production of affordable housing has not filled the gap, and 
production of affordable housing is at its lowest 10-year production 
rate on record since 1974. It, too, has played a role in this problem.
  The combination of increased demand and lack of production has caused 
the explosion in our affordable housing crisis. The number of Americans 
facing extreme unaffordability--that means they are paying more than 50 
percent--has gone from 7 million Americans to 11.2 million Americans. 
That is a 60-percent increase in the number of people in the United 
States who are in this area of extremely unaffordable rates for 
housing.
  While I know we are going to discuss natural disasters and helping 
communities recover--everywhere from the families who have been 
impacted in Florida, in Texas, and various places--we also have to look 
at the issue of affordable housing everywhere from Seattle and Portland 
and San Francisco to all the way across the country, to Philadelphia 
and Miami and many other places.
  In the aftermath of Katrina, Congress passed an expansion of the low-
income housing tax credit, and it built 28,000 affordable units on the 
gulf. I know my colleagues will want to do something similar for Texas 
and the Gulf States to make sure we are doing something, but we need to 
understand that at the time of Katrina, there was a need due to more 
than 275,000 homes destroyed by that hurricane. Building 28,000 units 
was barely a blip.
  The low-income housing tax credit helped rebuild some units, but it 
came nowhere close to solving the housing crisis in New Orleans. Market 
rates in New Orleans are 35 percent higher after the storm, and 37 
percent of households are paying more than half of their income in 
housing. Now, 12 years later, another disaster has hit, and we are 
going to try to address this crisis, but the housing burden for 
extremely low-income families in Texas and the major metro areas of 
Texas is among some of the worst in the Nation. That was before the 
crisis. Before the actual impact of hurricanes, Texas was already at a 
crisis point.
  Texas has only 29 affordable units for every 100 low-income 
households looking for those options. Houston is the third worst in the 
country for housing availability for extremely low-income people. Now 
families from Florida to Puerto Rico are going to also be finding a 
very difficult situation.
  Expanding the tax credit could help, but we have to do more than just 
expand the tax credit for those disaster States. We need a very big 
systematic investment in affordable housing all across the United 
States, and expanding the low-income housing tax credit is one way to 
do that. The good news is, we have good bipartisan support for the low-
income housing tax credit enacted in 1986. It helped build 3 million 
rental units across this country over the last 30 years. If you want to 
make a dent in this crisis, both in response to the hurricanes and the 
crisis that already existed, we need to begin filling that gap by 
increasing the credit.
  That is why I joined Senator Hatch in introducing the Affordable 
Housing Tax Credit Improvement Act, something that would help us build 
hundreds of thousands of new units in the next 10 years. I am glad 
Senators Wyden, Portman, Sullivan, Merkley, Scott, Bennet, Collins, 
Kaine, Heller, Leahy, Shaheen, Murray, Schumer, Murkowski, Young, 
Graham, Schatz, Booker, Hassan, Isakson, and Sanders are all 
supporters.
  We have good, bipartisan support from people who understand that this 
crisis is real and that it is only going to grow. But we also know that 
the additional tax credit would create almost 450,000 new jobs over the 
next 10 years. That is because housing is stimulative to the economy. 
Construction alone supports over 2 million jobs. And it helps by making 
sure that the economic impact to GDP is realized now through this 
investment.
  It also helps us save money as an economy and a country by putting a 
roof over people's heads. One of the reasons I was so excited to work 
with Senator Hatch on this was because in his home State of Utah, they 
made such great progress in dealing with their homeless veteran 
population. The community decided that by putting a roof over someone's 
head, they actually helped lower overall costs. One study found that 
placing people in affordable housing lowered Federal Medicaid 
expenditures by an average of 12 percent, and a University of 
Pennsylvania study found that taxpayers could save $16,000 per homeless 
person who was placed in affordable housing.
  So we need to act. We need to realize that housing provides an 
investment in job creation and has historically contributed between 2 
to 4 percent of GDP growth since the 1980s; that it is an underpinning 
of our economy; and that we need to make sure that our Tax Code works 
and make sure that people are purchasing homes as well as finding 
affordable housing.
  As our colleagues deal with the end-of-the-year policy issues and 
deal with our response to these storms, I hope we will realize that 
this underlying crisis also needs attention. We have worked on a 
bipartisan basis in the past to address it, and we can work on a 
bipartisan basis in the future to both stimulate our economy and solve 
these problems.
  Ninety percent of the affordable housing units being built in the 
country use these tax credits, so it is only by extending the tax 
credits, putting a roof over people's heads, that we are going to be 
able to deal with this crisis. The good news is, it helps us save money 
and it helps us with GDP growth.
  I thank the Chair.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Moran). The Senator from Maryland.


                      Nomination of William Wehrum

  Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, later today we will start the process of 
voting on the confirmation of William Wehrum for Assistant 
Administrator for the Environmental Protection Agency's Office of Air 
and Radiation. I take this time to urge my colleagues to reject this 
nominee and vote against his confirmation.
  The EPA Assistant Administrator for the Office of Air and Radiation 
supervises national programs and policies for regulating air pollution 
and radiation exposure. Notably, this office administers the Clean Air 
Act.
  As a member of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works, 
I once again find myself using my voice to say that science and public 
health, not partisan politics, should drive the confirmation process.
  If confirmed, Mr. Wehrum is expected to play a leading role in 
dismantling climate change regulations. Since the Supreme Court 
decision in Massachusetts v. EPA in 2007 ruled that carbon dioxide and 
other greenhouse gases are dangerous air pollutants, OAR is the office 
that accepted the endangerment finding and developed the Clean Power 
Plan to address carbon pollution.
  Given the Trump administration's own admission--or lack of 
suppression--in the latest update to the National Climate Assessment 
``that it is extremely likely that human activities, especially 
emissions of greenhouse gases, are the dominant cause of the observed 
warming since the mid-20th century,'' it should be common sense to 
nominate and confirm Administrators who care about our environment and 
our future, including acting on climate change. It is inexcusable to 
confirm those who disagree with that. I am not convinced that Mr. 
Wehrum will act on carbon pollution or any other air pollutant.
  It would take an extraordinarily independent Assistant Administrator 
to resist the current course at the EPA under EPA Administrator Scott 
Pruitt.

[[Page S7082]]

We know that we have a challenge at the top. We need as the person to 
head this Agency a person of integrity who will stand up for what 
science tells us we need to do in protecting air quality. I would argue 
that Mr. Wehrum is not that person.
  Let me go over some of the challenges we face.
  For example, in January of 2017, the EPA issued itself a 6-month 
extension to respond to Maryland's Good Neighbor petition. The petition 
alleges that 36 powerplants in five neighboring States are preventing 
Maryland from meeting its own obligations under the Clean Air Act. That 
deadline expired with no EPA action on the petition.
  On September 27, 2017, Maryland filed suit against the EPA.
  On October 5 of this year, the Chesapeake Bay Foundation filed a 
similar lawsuit because pollution from powerplants is a source of 
nitrogen pollution in the Chesapeake Bay.
  On October 27, 2017, the EPA denied a separate Maryland petition 
asking the EPA to add nine States to the Ozone Transport Region, 
alleging that these States contribute to the violation of the 2008 
ozone national ambient air quality standards.
  In its response to the petition, the EPA determined that expanding 
the Ozone Transport Region is ``not appropriate at this time'' because 
existing rules will achieve reductions in emissions. The EPA's response 
states that ``better-targeted approaches, such as those under the Clean 
Air Act's good neighbor provision, would be more effective in 
addressing the 2008 ozone targets.''
  The EPA's reasoning to deny the Ozone Transport Region petition--that 
existing rules will adequately address transported pollution--is 
predicated on the sincere implementation of those rules. In fact, 
Maryland did utilize--we did utilize--a ``better targeted approach.'' 
Maryland filed a Good Neighbor petition last November that was ignored 
for 1 year, prompting the lawsuit against the EPA.
  Based on his professional history and testimony, I do not have reason 
to believe that Mr. Wehrum will ensure that existing rules will 
adequately address air pollution. While he worked at the EPA during the 
George W. Bush administration, Mr. Wehrum attempted to direct the 
Agency's air requirements to favor markets, earning praise from 
industry groups he would later represent in private practice. How can 
we ask Mr. Wehrum to objectively administer the Clean Air Act after a 
career spent on one side?
  Mr. Wehrum has 20-plus years working for the industry as a lobbyist. 
He has a record of ignoring science in the recommendations that he 
made. There are examples of where he absolutely disagreed with expert 
groups--just to give one example, the Academy of American 
Pediatricians' assessment on mercury and air toxins submissions. Mr. 
Wehrum took issue and disagreed with their findings.
  He was seen as an unacceptable choice in 2007 when he was nominated 
to lead the same Agency by President Bush, and his nomination was 
withdrawn over Democratic opposition. So this is not the first time we 
have had a chance to deal with Mr. Wehrum for this position. In the 
interim, he has only continued his work to advance industry by 
advocating for weakening the Clean Air Act.
  I will continue to stand up for the rights of Marylanders and all 
Americans to air that is safe to breathe and a climate that is livable, 
and all of us can help in that regard by rejecting this nominee.
  Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Tillis). Without objection, it is so 
ordered.


                               Tax Reform

  Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, 1 year ago, the American people went to 
the polls. The American people demanded a change. They demanded a 
change from 8 years of too little economic growth and too much 
government control and regulations. The effect was immediate, and the 
effect was incredible.
  In the past year, we have gotten a lot of very good news about the 
American economy. Right after the election, businesses became much more 
optimistic about the direction of our country and they started hiring. 
Last Friday, we learned that in the United States we have created more 
than 2 million jobs since election day 2016. Someone said to me: Well, 
you shouldn't count it from election day. You should count it from 
Inauguration Day. Certainly, in my home State of Wyoming, on election 
day there was a confidence, an optimism, a positive feeling that 
started just at the moment it was announced that Donald Trump had been 
elected President of the United States.
  Right now we have the lowest rate of unemployment since the year 
2002. We have seen the economy grow at more than 3 percent for the past 
2 quarters. Consumer confidence just reached the highest level in 
almost 17 years. All of this is happening since President Trump was 
elected, and this is very good news for America.
  We can't stop now. We have to do all we can to keep on this path 
toward a more prosperous country. Americans are optimistic because they 
know that President Trump is focused on easing the regulations that 
have held back our economy for the last 8 years. We know that 
government can create opportunity or crush opportunity based on a 
combination of regulations, mandates, and taxes. We are now in the land 
of opportunity, eliminating the regulations and pulling back on taxes 
to helping our economy grow.
  The President has signed legislation that we passed in this Congress 
repealing one after another of the Obama administration's rules, 
regulations, and restrictions. President Trump has issued Executive 
orders cutting back on excessive redtape. President Trump has appointed 
very good people to important jobs who are committed to reining in 
Washington's out-of-control bureaucracy. All of these things are 
important and critical to keeping our economy growing.
  Another big part is what we are trying to do now in terms of cutting 
taxes for the American people. People want to keep more of their hard-
earned money in their own pockets.
  Here in the Senate we now have a once-in-a-generation opportunity to 
cut taxes in a way that will actually help American families. We can 
help families directly by raising their incomes, and we can help them 
indirectly by growing the economy. Here is how we can do both, because 
that needs to be our goal.
  The first thing we can do is to give people a raise by doubling the 
standard deduction. If we raise the deduction, people keep more of 
their hard-earned money, and it makes taxes simpler. Right now, the 
standard deduction for a married couple is $12,000. Two-thirds of 
Americans take this deduction. If we roughly double it, people will not 
pay any Federal income tax at all on the first $24,000 they earn. That 
is a big cut. It means that a lot more people will decide to take this 
deduction instead of having to go through the painstaking process of 
itemizing their deductions on their tax return. It saves them a lot of 
time, it saves them a lot of headaches, and it saves them the cost of 
accountants and lawyers who have to help figure out the very 
complicated tax system in this country. Millions of families will be 
better off just from this one tax cut alone.
  A second thing Republicans are looking to do is to reduce the tax 
rate for small businesses, the people who are creating jobs all across 
the country. If someone owns a small business in my home State of 
Wyoming, she probably ends up paying the taxes on her personal tax 
return rather than on a separate business tax return. If we cut her tax 
bill, that is money she can then use to give her workers a raise, to 
hire more people, and to create more jobs in our community. She can put 
money back into the business to help grow the economy as well.
  When you leave more money in people's pockets, they get to decide how 
to use that money--what they decide to spend, what they decide to save, 
and what they decide to invest. People are much better watching their 
own money than the government ever was, giving people value for that 
money.
  So we want to make sure that tax reform includes a break for small 
businesses. Around here, they use the

[[Page S7083]]

words ``tax reform.'' To me, it is about tax reduction, tax relief, and 
tax cuts. Republicans also want to bring down the rates that Washington 
charges other businesses. If we can cut the rate businesses pay from 35 
percent down to 20 percent, that could be an enormous boost to the 
economy. Economists who look at this say it is like giving the average 
American family a $4,000 a year raise. That is how much the average 
household's income would go up, because workers actually bear most of 
the burden of taxes that businesses pay.
  Now, Democrats actually think the money belongs to Washington. It 
doesn't. It belongs to the people at home who earn it. Democrats often 
think that if you give Americans even a single dollar in tax cuts, you 
are taking away Washington's money. It is not Washington's money. The 
money belongs to the people at home.
  We know the exact opposite of what the Democrats believe to be true. 
Republicans know that giving Americans a tax cut is the same as giving 
them a raise. Every dollar a family doesn't have to send to Washington 
in taxes is a dollar they can use for something better. It is a dollar 
they can use for food, for shelter, for kids, for education, for things 
that matter to their family. It is another dollar a small business can 
use to pay its workers more or reinvest in the business to help grow 
the economy in that community. Tax cuts mean that people decide how to 
spend their own money; Washington doesn't decide. Families know how to 
use money much better than Washington ever will.

  As we debate these issues and ideas with regard to tax relief, we 
have an exciting opportunity to give the American people a raise and to 
give the American economy a boost. This is something a lot of people 
have been working on for a long time in the Senate. Over the past 6 
years, the Finance Committee has held 70 hearings on how to make our 
Tax Code better for all Americans.
  Republicans are working, and we are listening to make sure that we 
get the tax reform right that the American people and families need. 
When it comes to tax cuts, I believe the more the better. The more 
people who get a tax cut, the better. The more we grow our economy, the 
better. It is our job. It is about paychecks. It is about jobs. It is 
about prosperity. It is about a strong and healthy economy for America. 
That is what we as Republicans are committed to. We cannot let this 
opportunity pass.
  Mr. President, I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Vermont.
  Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, whether one is a progressive, a Democrat, 
a conservative, a Republican, or somewhere in between, there is a deep 
understanding in this country that we are living in a rigged economy, 
and people are increasingly angry and frustrated about the growing 
inequality and unfairness they see all about them.
  It is hard to believe, but in the United States of America today, the 
top one-tenth of 1 percent now owns almost as much wealth as the bottom 
90 percent--one-tenth of 1 percent, bottom 90 percent. A study came out 
fairly recently indicating that in the United States of America today, 
the three wealthiest people in our country--Bill Gates, Jeff Bezos, and 
Warren Buffett--now own more wealth than the bottom half of the 
American people. Three people own more wealth than the bottom half of 
the American people.
  Meanwhile, while the very, very rich get richer, some 40 million 
Americans are living in poverty. These are people who are struggling 
today to figure out how they put food on the table for their kids, how 
they put gas in the car in order to go to work, how they pay their 
electric bills, how they deal with childcare. There are 40 million 
people living in poverty. The middle class is disappearing. People are 
working two or three jobs. For the first time in the modern history of 
this country, young people may well have a standard of living lower 
than their parents'.
  On top of all of that, we remain the only major country on Earth that 
doesn't guarantee healthcare to all of our people. Twenty-eight million 
people today have no health insurance. Many more are underinsured. And 
if our Republican colleagues get their way, they are going to throw 
another 20 or 30 million people off of their health insurance.
  It is not only the reality of grotesque levels of inequality that is 
making the American people despondent and angry; it is the reality that 
the people on top, with their wealth and power, can access lawyers and 
accountants who are able to manipulate the system to benefit themselves 
at the expense of everyone else. That is the essence of what a rigged 
economy is about and what I want to say a few words about today.
  In my view, one of the great crises facing our world--and we are in a 
world of many crises--is the rapid movement toward international 
oligarchy in which a handful of billionaires own and control not just a 
significant part of the American economy but a significant part of the 
world economy. Needless to say, this is an issue that does not get a 
whole lot of discussion because, in general, the more important the 
issues are, the less discussion they get within the corporate media or 
within the political world that we live in here in the Congress.
  Let me reiterate. One of the great crises that we face is that a 
handful of billionaires are moving this entire planet toward an 
oligarchic society in which the people on top not only have incredible 
wealth but incredible political power as well.
  This last Sunday, a group of investigative journalists released over 
13 million files known as the Paradise Papers exposing just how 
horrific this situation has become. These papers show how a handful of 
oligarchs in the United States and throughout the world get richer by 
hiding their wealth and their profits offshore to avoid paying their 
fair share of taxes. The list of individuals implicated in the Paradise 
Papers include billionaires such as the Koch brothers, Sheldon Adelson, 
Carl Icahn, and Robert Mercer. It includes large financial institutions 
such as Wells Fargo, Citigroup, and Bank of America. It includes large 
multinational corporations such as Apple, Nike, and ExxonMobil. It 
includes members of the Trump administration, such as Secretary of 
State Rex Tillerson, Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross, chief economic 
adviser Gary Cohn, and Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin.
  Let's be clear. Offshore tax evasion is a major problem not just for 
the United States but for governments throughout the world. This is 
really quite unbelievable. In the year 2012, the Tax Justice Network 
estimated that at least $21 trillion--$21 trillion, a number almost 
beyond comprehension--is being stashed in offshore tax havens around 
the world. Imagine that. There is $21 trillion flowing into tax havens 
in the Cayman Islands, Bermuda, Luxembourg--all these places around the 
world where the billionaire class and large corporations are stashing 
their money not only to avoid taxes in the United States but to avoid 
taxes in Great Britain, France, Germany, et cetera.
  There is a funny thing about these guys. All of these billionaires 
love veterans, and they love the military. They want to see us rebuild 
the infrastructure, and they want to see our kids get a good education. 
But you know what, they don't want to pay taxes to make that happen. 
They want ordinary people to pay the taxes. Republicans here want to 
increase military spending by $50, $60 billion. It is not the 
billionaires who are going to pay the taxes on that--they have their 
money in the Cayman Islands. It is the working class, the middle class, 
upper middle class who will pay, not the billionaires. They love 
America--except when it comes to accepting their fair share to make 
sure that we continue to provide the services our men, women, and 
children need.
  The situation has become so absurd--and this is really how crazy it 
is--that one five-story office building in the Cayman Islands is now 
the home of nearly 20,000 corporations. This particular building in the 
Cayman Islands is called the Ugland House. It is five stories. I know 
that you can squeeze people into a building--sometimes three or four 
people live in a room--but I think it is a little bit hard to 
understand how 20,000 corporations function in a five-story building. 
Of course the answer is that 20,000 corporations do not function in 
this five-story building.

[[Page S7084]]

It is all a fraud. It is simply a mailbox address for 20,000 
corporations that are in this building in order to avoid paying their 
taxes. They are stashing their profits and their wealth in corporations 
that use this building as a mailing address.
  I know we are busy talking about so-called tax reform here, but in 
the United States alone, offshore tax evasion costs our government 
about $166 billion in lost revenue each and every year. That is a lot 
of money that could be used to rebuild our crumbling infrastructure--
our roads, our bridges, our water systems. One trillion dollars--that 
is 8 or 9 years of that $166 billion--could create up to 15 million 
good-paying jobs. That is money that could be used to provide universal 
pre-K for our children so that when kids get ready to go to school, 
they will be prepared to do the work there. But instead of cracking 
down on offshore tax schemes, President Trump and my Republican 
colleagues in Congress are working overtime to pass legislation that 
would make this absurd situation even worse.
  At a time when corporations are making recordbreaking profits, my 
Republican colleagues want to slash taxes for companies that are 
shifting American jobs to China and American profits to the Cayman 
Islands. At a time of massive wealth and income inequality, President 
Trump and the Republicans in Congress want to cut taxes for 
billionaires by repealing the estate tax on families who inherit over 
$5.5 million. I think the American people grasp the unfairness and the 
absurdity of the Republican tax proposal.
  The top one-tenth of 1 percent own almost as much wealth as the 
bottom 90 percent. The very, very rich are getting richer while the 
middle class is shrinking, and the Republican response is to give 
massive tax breaks to the top two-tenths of 1 percent--two-tenths of 1 
percent. These are families like the Walton family, the wealthiest 
family in America, who owns Walmart, who would get up to a $50 billion 
tax break; and the Koch brothers, who have enough money to spend 
hundreds of millions of dollars trying to elect rightwing candidates to 
Congress.
  There are massive tax breaks for billionaires and at the same time, 
an effort to throw up to 30 million people off of the health insurance 
they have, massive cuts in education, in nutrition, and in the programs 
that working families desperately need.
  Instead of providing even more tax breaks to very profitable 
corporations and to billionaires and President Trump's Cabinet, maybe--
just maybe--it might be a good idea to close offshore tax loopholes and 
demand a fair, transparent, and progressive tax system.
  I hope the American people are catching on--as I believe they are--to 
what a fraud the Republican tax proposal is. Today, one out of five 
major, profitable corporations already pays zero in Federal income tax. 
You can't do much better than paying zero in Federal income tax and be 
a profitable corporation, but that is what is going on. Republicans 
want to make that even worse, and then they want millions of middle-
class people, by the end of the decade, to be paying more in taxes. 
That is absurd, and I hope the American people stand up and demand that 
we do not go forward with that proposal.


                               Healthcare

  Mr. President, on another issue, I want to mention that there is a 
crisis in primary healthcare, and unless Congress acts immediately, 
that crisis is likely to become much worse. Millions of Americans are 
at risk of losing their access to healthcare because Congress has still 
not renewed funding for the community health center program, which 
expired on September 30.
  Our Nation's community health centers provide affordable, high-
quality healthcare to more than 27 million people. What community 
health centers do is not only provide high-quality primary healthcare 
but also dental care, mental health counseling, and low-cost 
prescription drugs. Community health centers not only save lives, they 
also end up saving money. What they do is keep people out of emergency 
rooms and keep people out of hospitals because people can now go to the 
doctor when they should. The savings are also, really, quite 
significant. Investing in community health centers keeps people 
healthier, keeps people alive, and saves taxpayers' money.
  Not only do we have to renew funding for the Community Health Center 
Program, but we must also improve and expand the National Health 
Service Corps, one of the, really, very positive health programs that 
the Federal Government runs. What this program understands is that for 
a variety of reasons, including the fact that many young people leave 
medical school being $300,000, $400,000 in debt, it is very hard to get 
young doctors, dentists, nurses, and nurse practitioners to underserved 
areas in rural America or in urban America. What this program does is 
provide debt forgiveness and sometimes scholarships for young graduates 
of medical school or nursing school or dental school and says: If you 
are prepared to practice in an underserved area, we will forgive your 
loans. That is a big deal in attracting providers to areas in which we 
desperately need them.
  The bad news is that, as every American knows, this Congress and this 
country are very politically divided. That is no great secret. The good 
news and the truth is that in terms of community health centers--
Senator Ted Kennedy was one of the founders, who worked with 
Republicans--from the inception of the program, there has been a 
widespread understanding on both sides of the aisle that communities 
all over America in every State in our country are benefiting from 
community health centers whether they are in rural areas or whether 
they are in urban areas or anyplace else in between.
  What I am very happy to note is that there is excellent legislation--
bipartisan legislation--here in the Senate, introduced by Senator Roy 
Blunt and Senator Debbie Stabenow, that would reauthorize these 
successful programs for 5 years and provide modest increases in their 
funding. This program not only has the support of virtually, perhaps, 
every Democrat or every Member of the Democratic Caucus, but I think it 
has at least 9 or 10 Republican cosponsors. I believe, if that bill 
were to be brought to the floor of the Senate, it would pass with 
overwhelming support because every Senator here knows of the excellent 
work that is done by community health centers from one end of this 
country to the other.
  I hope that this issue will get the attention it deserves. It should 
have been funded at the end of the fiscal year. It wasn't. I just 
talked to a physician in Burlington, VT, who works for a community 
health center. They are worried, and doctors and nurses all across this 
country are worried, as are patients, about the lack of reauthorization 
of this very important bill.
  I hope that this bill will get moved very quickly along with the CHIP 
program. There is bipartisan support for it, and I hope that we can get 
it to the floor and get it passed as quickly as possible.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                              Veterans Day

  Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, this coming week will mark Veterans Day. It 
is an important time for us to reflect on what veterans do for us and 
what their families do for us. The sacrifices of both those who serve 
and those who support those who serve are incredibly important.
  We have half a million Missouri veterans, and one of the great 
privileges of this job is to get to represent them, their values, and 
the commitment to freedom in our country that they stand for.
  A couple of weeks ago I had the opportunity to welcome a group of 
southwest Missouri veterans who came to Washington with the Honor 
Flight program. I think the Presiding Officer also does this, but every 
time I get a chance, if there is an Honor Flight from our State, I try 
to get down there because it is a great time to see and to talk to and 
to thank those who have served us.
  When the Honor Flights started 20 years ago or so, there were still 
some

[[Page S7085]]

World War I veterans coming, and then they were almost all World War II 
veterans. Today we see some World War II veterans, Korea veterans, and 
Vietnam veterans, all of whom serve in the great tradition of being 
willing to fight for the freedoms that we enjoy every day. I find it 
humbling and gratifying to know that those veterans get to come here 
and enjoy the day with each other. In many cases it is the first time 
they have ever been to the Capitol, the National World War II Memorial, 
Arlington, and the other places on the trip that now so many tens of 
thousands have taken.
  Many of those veterans whom I saw the other day and whom I have seen 
through the history of the Honor Flight program were just teenagers 
when they answered the call to serve--basically, a little more than 
high school kids who knew that something needed to be done and they 
were able and willing to do it. They fought difficult battles and, in 
some cases, often under unbearable conditions. Some of them lost their 
closest friends in the military. Many of them lost comrades in arms. 
Some of them lost comrades right beside them. Some of them lost people 
who went out on another mission and never came back. Some of their 
families lost a servicemember who never became a veteran.
  I was down in Perryville, MO, a little town between Cape Girardeau 
and St. Louis, on the Mississippi River. They are building an exact 
replica of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial--the Vietnam wall. We were 
able to present a flag to the group that raised the money and made the 
plan to replicate the Vietnam Veterans Memorial on the Mall to take it 
back and become part of the Vietnam memorial at Perryville.
  Our veterans are an extraordinary group of men and women. They really 
stand for the best we stand for as a nation. It is important that with 
not just honor them on Veterans Day but honor them every day--every day 
that we live in this free and prosperous Nation that they helped 
defend.
  Admittedly, it is hard not to take all of the freedoms that we enjoy 
for granted because generations of Americans have been willing to fight 
and die to protect those freedoms. Because of that, generations of 
Americans have benefitted from those freedoms, and it seems to us the 
way people should be able to live everywhere. Maybe too often we think 
it is the way people do live everywhere, but in many parts of the 
world, having the security to walk out the door every morning, to drop 
your kids off at school, to go to work and earn a living, to worship as 
you please, and to build a better life is not available to people in 
other countries the way it is here. That is the debt of gratitude we 
owe to our veterans.
  This year, one of the areas of great legislative success has been in 
the work for veterans. Chairman Isakson of Georgia is going to follow 
me on the floor in just a few minutes. He is the chairman of that 
committee. He has a great committee, but they have a great chairman. 
That committee, with its chairman, and the committee in the House have 
passed eight bills, at least, that the President of the United States 
has signed into law that do a number of things for our veterans.

  We have built on previous progress for improving veterans care. A few 
years ago, we made the decision that veterans need to have more 
choices. A veteran shouldn't have to drive by a hospital they would 
like to go to in order to get to a hospital miles and miles away. They 
shouldn't have to pass three or four facilities that could do as good a 
job or better in order to get to a veterans facility.
  There are some things our veterans facilities should do better than 
anybody else. They should be better at dealing with post-traumatic 
stress better than anybody else, although they may not be as 
accessible. They should be better at dealing with patients who have 
suffered from IED attacks, eye injuries, people who work with veterans 
in prosthetics, and those patients who have lost arms and legs in the 
service of our country. They should be pretty good at that. There is no 
particular reason they should be good at open heart surgery or kidney 
dialysis or all the other things you go to the hospital for, if that is 
where a veteran wants to go. We found out that a lot of veterans would 
rather go closer to home. A lot of veterans would like to go to the 
hospital they are more familiar with when they need their own 
healthcare. They would like to go to the hospital they have been to 
lots of times with other family members and others.
  So we really expanded the Veterans Choice Program and expanded the 
money available for that program. We try to create these opportunities 
side by side with an existing facility. There has to be some startup 
money involved, but, eventually, I think our young veterans will find 
that they can almost always find a hospital they would rather go to or 
a doctor they would rather see.
  We have increased compensation for veterans with service-connected 
disabilities. World War II veterans, such as Arla Harrell from St. 
Louis, who suffered a lifetime of illness because he was part of a 
mustard gas experiment, is finally getting both compensation and the 
recognition that throughout his lifetime his health was impacted by 
something that happened while he was serving his country.
  We have continued efforts to address the problems at the Veterans' 
Administration by passing legislation to modernize the outdated 
benefits claims appeals process to make it easier for VA employees to 
be fired for misconduct.
  We want to protect employees who point out what is wrong. There have 
been plenty of whistles being blown at the VA over the last decade. 
While we want to be sure people can blow those whistles, we also want 
to be sure that the VA can quickly and effectively remove employees who 
are not doing what they ought to be doing and, in fact, are 
aggressively doing, in some cases, things they shouldn't be doing.
  We worked to expand the possibility and the opportunity for education 
benefits by expanding what can happen under the post-9/11 GI bill, 
helping to connect veterans with employers who provide benefits and 
programs. The HIRE Vets Act, a bill I sponsored in the Congress, was 
part of the first major pieces of legislation the Congress passed this 
year. I think that, sometime in the next few weeks, the Department of 
Labor is going to be talking about how we will recognize and evaluate 
employers who hire veterans, who give veterans credit for skills they 
learned in the military, and who promote veterans. To every employer 
who hires veterans, that is a good thing and we should want to do that. 
The HIRE Vets Act, like the LEED standard for energy, creates a 
standard so that we can recognize companies that do that in a 
significant way. I am pleased that Secretary Acosta in the Department 
of Labor has put that on a fast track so these companies can be 
recognized for what they do.
  Our veterans have worked hard and have put themselves in danger to 
keep us safe. As legislators, we owe them, as we owe those who follow 
in their footsteps, our continued efforts to ensure that those 
defending our country have everything they need and to show that we are 
also grateful to those who have defended our country in the past.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Georgia.
  Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, I wish to thank Senator Blunt, the 
distinguished Senator from Missouri, for his eloquent remarks on 
veterans and in support of all the things the Presiding Officer and I 
have tried to do on the Veterans' Affairs Committee and for pointing 
out the many reasons we in America are so proud of the veterans in 
service, who allow you and I to be here today. Were it not for our 
veterans, this Republic would not exist.
  I was wondering how I would start out this speech. I did an interview 
with a reporter who wanted to ask me a number of questions about the 
current administration and what we were doing for veterans. It turned 
out to be a 35- or 40-minute interview.
  I said I had to go, and he said: I have one more question for you.
  This was by phone. So I couldn't look him in the eye, and he couldn't 
see me.
  He said: I have one more question for you.
  When you hear that from a reporter, that means the zinger is coming.
  He said: Don't you think we could save a lot of money if we didn't 
fight in any more wars?
  I thought for a minute. I said: We probably could, but there wouldn't 
be any reason for you and me to exist if we didn't fight any more wars, 
because

[[Page S7086]]

America is the place where everybody wants to be because we are safe 
and we are free and we are independent, because we fight and defend 
what we have as a country. I thought I would bring that up in my speech 
today because that is the reason we celebrate veterans today. So we 
give thanks to the men and women who volunteer, who served our country 
in the wars overseas, in the battles overseas, and, sometimes, in the 
challenges domestically to protect us and keep us free.
  America is a great country. We don't find anybody trying to break out 
of the United States of America. They are all trying to break in and 
for a very good reason. It is a safe and free place to raise a family, 
to start a business, and to serve in many other ways.
  So this year, on the 11th day, at the 11th hour and the 11th minute 
of November, when we celebrate Veterans Day, pause for a minute to say 
thanks for those who have come and gone and for those who are still 
here who fight to serve and protect us.
  Always remember that the Congress, shortly after the end of World War 
I, decided that the 11th day--the day the armistice was signed--of the 
11th month, November, with the 11th hour being 11 o'clock in the 
morning, would be the time the bell would toll to celebrate and pay 
tribute to those veterans. So at 11:11:11 this November 11, we are all 
going to toll that bell one more time to give thanks for our veterans 
for all they have done for us and for all they will do for us in the 
future.
  It is best, when you talk about veterans, to talk about them as the 
people they were and the people they are, whether they are alive or 
whether they have passed on. I want to talk about two veterans whose 
paths have crossed my life to point out why we owe them so much and why 
we have so much to be thankful for. One of them is Jackson Elliott Cox, 
III of Burke County, GA, which is the Bird Dog Capital of North 
America. It has raised and trained more bird dogs than anywhere else in 
the country. It is the home of a nuclear power plant, the Plant Vogtle. 
It is a beautiful rural county in Georgia.
  Jack was my best friend in college. We met in 1962; we graduated in 
1966. I will never forget that the last time I saw Jack was when he was 
shipping out to go to OCS in the Marine Corps. Jack had decided when he 
graduated that it was more important for him to volunteer and fight for 
our country because of what was going on in Vietnam than do anything 
else, so he voluntarily joined the Marine Corps, went to OCS, got his 
commission as an officer, and became a captain in the U.S. Marine 
Corps. He fought and he died in Vietnam.
  I will never forget the last words he told me when we put him on the 
bus from Waynesboro, GA, to Atlanta, ultimately, to be shipped out. 
What he said is: Johnny, I am sure I am coming back. Don't worry about 
me. Just pray for me. But in case I don't, make sure people remember 
who Jackson Elliott Cox III was.
  I said: Jack, I will do that.
  Sure enough, 2 years later he was shot and killed by a sniper in 
Vietnam. He lost his life at the age of 24. He was the finest human 
being I had ever known, the nicest guy I had ever met, and my favorite 
friend in all of my life. He was taken from me because he volunteered 
to serve and fight for our country.
  I am going to keep today on the floor of the U.S. Senate the promise 
I made to him at the bus station. I want you to know who Jackson 
Elliott Cox III was. He was a good old country boy from South Georgia 
who volunteered to serve his country and risked his life and gave his 
life so that you and I could be here today.
  There are thousands of Jackson Elliott Coxes all over the world. In 
fact, there are millions all over the country. There are hundreds of 
thousands of them, and we have so much to thank them for because less 
than 1 percent of our population has worn the uniform, been in the 
battle, and fought to save us and protect us as Jackson Elliott Cox 
did.
  When you have your chance to meet and become friends with a veteran--
and all of you will--remember you owe them a debt of gratitude. At some 
time, when you get the chance to pay that debt back, do what I am doing 
today. Don't let their memory ever be lost or forgotten no matter where 
you go or where life takes you because you wouldn't get to where you 
are going, had they not allowed you to be safe and free to travel that 
route.
  The second name I am going to mention is Noah Harris. Noah was from 
Ellijay, GA. Noah was a cheerleader at the University of Georgia. On 
September 11, 2001, he turned on his television to see 3,000 innocent 
citizens, most of them Americans, die in the Twin Towers when al-Qaida 
and Osama bin Laden and the axis of evil attacked our country, took our 
innocence, killed our people, and changed the world forever.
  Noah was a cheerleader. We don't have a mandatory draft anymore. You 
don't have to serve, and he was not serving. He was going to graduate 
in a year and a half. He wanted to be an architect.
  The next morning, after 9/11, when he left his dorm, he went to the 
Army ROTC building at the University of Georgia campus. He walked in 
and said: I want to go to OCS. I want to go. After what I saw on TV 
last night, I want to go fight and get the people who did that to my 
country and my friends.
  They said: No, Mr. Harris you can't do that. OCS is a 2-year program 
at the university, and you are graduating next year. You don't have 
enough time to do it.
  He said: I will double up on my studies. I will do whatever. I want 
to go. I want to fight for my country and fight the axis of evil.
  They let him in, and he did. He graduated with honors. A few months 
later, he graduated as second lieutenant from the U.S. Army at Fort 
Benning in Georgia. Before too long, he was in Gazaria in Iraq, a 
suburb of Baghdad, handing Beanie Babies out of one pocket while the 
other pocket of his field jacket had his ammunition. He was trying to 
win over the hearts of the Iraqi children while he was fighting to 
preserve freedom for them and return their country to some form of a 
democracy or republic, away from the captives of Saddam Hussein.
  I knew Noah casually. I know his parents well--Rick and Lucy Harris. 
I know they have mourned every day since they lost Noah in Baghdad when 
he died in an IED accident, but I know how proud they are of what he 
did and why he did it. I am proud he was my friend, and I am proud to 
have known him as well. I am proud to be able to stand on the floor of 
the U.S. Senate today and talk about Noah Harris and talk about Jackson 
Elliott Cox, who were exemplary of all the others who have served in 
the military--men and women, rich and poor, Black and White, who have 
gone and fought the battle and borne the battle for us so that we could 
be where we are today.
  It kind of reminds me of the person who went to Benjamin Franklin in 
Philadelphia shortly after the Constitution was adopted in Constitution 
Hall and said: Mr. Franklin, what have you given us?
  He paused for a minute and said: ``A republic, if you can keep it.''
  We have kept it. We have kept it because we have subscribed to the 
Constitution but also because we have a militia and a military. We are 
willing to fight for what we believe in, protect our citizens, and keep 
our country free. The country that our Founding Fathers gave to us, 
that was nurtured in the early days of this Republic, which now is 
hundreds of years old, is still there today for lots of reasons but, 
principally, the undergirding foundation is a strong and vibrant 
military.
  When Veterans Day comes, give thanks for the veterans you know. 
Mention a couple of them, as I have done here, so their memory and 
their names never die, but also so we can lift them up at a time when 
we pause for just a minute to say thank you for the greatest country on 
the face of this Earth.
  Senator Blunt talked about our committee and what we have done this 
year. I want to take just a minute to reiterate some of the things he 
said. There are no Democratic veterans and no Republican veterans; 
there are only American veterans. They don't go to the battlefield as a 
partisan; they go to the battlefield as an American, and they fight for 
us whether we are Republicans or Democrats. They risk their own life 
and sometimes sacrifice it so that we can do what Ben Franklin said: 
Keep that republic. We owe them a lot. In fact, in many cases, we owe 
them everything.

[[Page S7087]]

  We have had a mess at the VA in the last 10 years. They have been the 
lead story on USA Today more than any other agency in the government 
for failures of the VA to do the job that should have been done. Under 
David Shulkin, the Secretary of the VA appointed by President Trump, 
under the leadership of our committees in the House and the Senate, and 
under a commitment to bipartisan service by all our Members--which 
means we do almost everything unanimously and, if not unanimously, 
almost unanimously because it is not about getting Republican credit or 
Democratic credit; it is about doing the right thing for the right 
people who have done so much for us--we passed the Whistleblower 
Protection Act this year to give whistleblowers in the VA the 
protection they need to go and turn in to the authorities those 
employees in the Veterans Administration who are not doing their job. 
We have given them the safe harbor they need to encourage them to help 
us root out problems, and we are doing that.
  We passed the accountability bill to shine the light of sunshine on 
the employees of the VA and to give the authorities in the VA the 
ability to terminate and fire, if you will, for cause an employee who 
is not doing the job they should be doing for our veterans. So we hold 
a standard of accountability up a little higher for our employees in 
the Veterans Administration.
  We are magnifying choice so that our veterans can have more choice in 
their healthcare. We can use the private sector as a force multiplier 
so that the government doesn't have to hire all the doctors and 
physicians and assistants to service the VA. We can get them in the 
private sector as well.
  In the 21st century GI bill, we finally made sure that the GI bill 
applies to everyone, not just World War II or Vietnam war-era veterans 
but veterans of all conflicts and of all times.
  We have done everything we can to see to it that the benefits, which 
we promised them would be there when they left the military, are there 
for them in retirement and in their later life. The sacrifices they 
make are great, and the sacrifices we have made to save our veterans 
are great.
  Today veterans come home from the battlefield 90 percent of the time 
when they are wounded. They come home, whereas, in World War I, 10 
percent came home, and 90 percent died on the battlefield. But because 
of the advancements we have made in armor and protection and healthcare 
services, a lot of veterans today live when they would not have lived 
just 25 or 30 years ago.
  The injuries they sustain are far greater than any injuries we have 
known in warfare before. The signature illnesses are PTSD, post-
traumatic stress syndrome, or traumatic brain injury or a prosthesis 
for an arm or a leg or an eye or some part of the body that is lost in 
battle. But the trunk of the body is protected by new Kevlar vests that 
are impenetrable by a bullet, so most of them succumb to IEDs and 
explosives and things of that nature.
  We have the healthcare to provide them with the best possible 
rehabilitation we can, but you can never really replace a leg or an eye 
or a body part. Once somebody has sacrificed it forever, they wear the 
burden of the battle and of war.
  We have an obligation, as the Veterans Administration, as the 
Congress of the United States in the House and the Senate, to see to it 
that we back up those promises our recruiters made when they came to 
join the military, to see to it that they get those services from their 
Veterans Administration.
  Dr. David Shulkin is doing a phenomenal job. My ranking member, Jon 
Tester, Democrat from Montana, is doing a fantastic job. The House 
committee is doing a great job. The Members of the Senate are doing a 
great job.
  In a week and a half, we are going to have our final bill of the year 
which, when we pass it, will make us 8 for 8. We will have totally 
reformed the VA and worked with the VA to reform it in such a way that 
our veterans get better service, our taxpayers get more accountability 
for the dollars we spend, and America remains the great country it has 
always been--safe and free because of those who volunteer to fight and 
are willing to die on behalf our country.
  So sometime on the 11th day and, hopefully, at the 11th hour and the 
11th minute of that hour on November 11, you will pause for a minute 
and remember I told you that is when we celebrate Veterans Day because, 
at the time the armistice was signed in World War I, our country 
decided that would be the perfect time to remember all those who have 
fought in the past.
  Let's look around, and every time we see a man or woman in uniform, 
stop and say ``Thank you for your service'' because those are the 
people who are risking their lives so that you and I can do whatever it 
is we choose to do in this land of the free and home of the brave.
  There are lots of things to be thankful for but nothing more 
important than the men and women of the U.S. military. May God bless 
our country, may God bless our veterans, may God bless the United 
States of America.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Cotton). The Senator from North Dakota.
  Mr. HOEVEN. Mr. President, I am very pleased to have the opportunity 
to speak today on the floor of the Senate after my esteemed colleague 
from the State of Georgia. My colleague is the chairman of the 
Veterans' Affairs Committee, and I just want to express my appreciation 
for his commitment and his work on behalf of all of our great veterans.
  Like him, I rise today to speak in tribute to our veterans and men 
and women in uniform and all that they do for us.
  This weekend at events across the country, we will pay tribute to the 
fine men and women who have served in our Nation's Armed Forces. Every 
day--but especially on Veterans Day--we honor these soldiers who have 
left the comforts of home and family to defend our freedoms and fight 
for our way of life.
  Our freedoms have been secured by the sweat and sacrifice of 
courageous men and women who, throughout our history, have bravely done 
what was needed to protect our great Nation. We also recognize that 
those who serve do not serve alone. We appreciate, too, the sacrifices 
of the families and the loved ones who have supported our veterans in 
their service.
  This Veterans Day, we will honor military members from our ``greatest 
generation'' to those men and women fighting in the War on Terror 
today. These Americans understand best the words of President Ronald 
Reagan when he said:

       Freedom is never more than one generation away from 
     extinction. We didn't pass it to our children in the 
     bloodstream. It must be fought for, protected, and handed on 
     for them to do the same.

  These men and women who have fought for and protected our country 
have given so much, and we cannot do enough to thank them, whether they 
returned from Active military duty 7 days ago or seven decades ago.
  Although we can never repay our debt of gratitude, one of the most 
tangible ways we recognize our veterans' service is by providing these 
men and women with quality healthcare and support services, including 
education and work opportunities. With that debt in mind, let me 
briefly outline some initiatives that we have been working on to 
provide for our veterans. Congress has passed significant veterans 
bills this year, including legislation that holds the VA accountable 
and ensures that VA employees are putting our veterans first and 
legislation that updates and modernizes the VA's benefit claims and 
appeals process, reducing wait times for our veterans.
  Additionally, one of my top priorities is ensuring that our veterans 
have access to healthcare options closer to their homes and their 
families.
  This includes improving veterans' access to services under the 
Veterans Choice Program and building on the success of the Veterans 
Care Coordination Initiative at the Fargo VA Medical Center in my home 
State. This effort has decreased the wait time for scheduling an 
appointment under Veterans Choice from 24 days a year ago to 5 or 6 
days at present. This initiative can serve as a model to help address 
delays in scheduling appointments through the Veterans Choice Program 
across the Nation.
  We invited Secretary Shulkin, from North Dakota, to see this 
firsthand, and our Veterans Care Coordination Initiative has since been 
expanded to

[[Page S7088]]

the VA facility in Helena, MT, as well. We believe it will be expanded 
to other locations across the country.
  We also passed an extension of the Veterans Choice Program earlier 
this year and secured $2.1 billion in additional funding for the 
program. This gives us time to work with the VA on the next phase of 
the program. In addition to Veterans Choice, we are working to improve 
local access to long-term care for our veterans.
  We secured a commitment from Secretary Shulkin to work with us on the 
Veterans Access to Long Term Care and Health Services Act. We have now 
introduced this legislation in the Senate, and a companion bill has 
been introduced in the House of Representatives. The legislation would 
remove burdensome redtape that prevents nursing homes and other 
healthcare providers from accepting veteran patients. Our bill allows 
the VA to enter into provider agreements with qualified healthcare and 
extended care facilities, bypassing complex Federal contracting 
requirements. This will give veterans more options to access long-term 
care services closer to their homes, their families, and to their loved 
ones.
  In addition, earlier this year, Congress passed--and the President 
signed into law--the forever GI bill, which improved and extended 
veterans' access to education and workforce opportunities. This is part 
of our efforts to ensure that we are supporting our veterans as they 
transition back to civilian life and work here at home. These are just 
a few examples of our efforts to ensure our veterans have the resources 
and the support they have so richly earned. While we cannot say thank 
you enough, in this way, we can honor their courage and their 
sacrifice.
  We honor Veterans Day because we have the greatest veterans in the 
world who have committed themselves to protect our Nation, and in so 
doing, they have transformed this country into the greatest the world 
has ever known. May God continue to bless our veterans and this great 
Nation that they have been protecting and make sure we honor the 
selfless service of all our men and women in uniform, of all our 
veterans, not only on Veterans Day but every day.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from North Carolina.
  Mr. TILLIS. Mr. President, I appreciate the kind words of Senator 
Hoeven and his affinity toward veterans. I am here to talk about our 
veterans as well.
  I come at it from three different perceptions. I chair the Military 
Personnel Subcommittee in the Senate Armed Services Committee. We are 
trying to work on things to make sure that when somebody goes out of 
Active Duty into veteran status, we make it as productive as it can be, 
making sure they enter back fully into the workforce, the education 
opportunities, and all the kinds of opportunities that are afforded 
them as a result of serving in our armed services.
  I also want to take a minute to talk about the person who served but 
never wore a uniform, and that is the husband or the wife or the 
children whom, on this Veterans Day, we should also thank.
  A lot of times, when I have an opportunity--I live in Charlotte, NC, 
where we have nearly 800,000 veterans. It is one of the largest 
populations of any one State--I make a point to get to the airport a 
little bit early so I can go up to the USO and just spend a moment 
meeting with people who are there transitioning from Active Duty and 
veterans to thank them for their service. Oftentimes, I will thank a 
man or woman, and they will say: I didn't serve; my husband or my wife 
did. I will say: By virtue of your being a military spouse, you served, 
as did your children.
  On this Veterans Day, let's make sure we expand those thank-yous to 
include everybody who is affected when somebody is deployed in a 
dangerous place or even serving in peacetime. It is a great sacrifice, 
and it is one we should always show our gratitude for.
  As I said, in North Carolina, we have about 800,000 veterans. We also 
have one of the highest military concentrations of any State. It is the 
home of the Global Response Force at Fort Bragg, with over 65,000 men 
and women serving and 38 generals. You go down closer to the coast and 
you get to Jacksonville, NC, where we have Camp Lejeune. There is a 
debate over the pronunciation so I will pronounce it both ways, but 
there we have nearly 45 percent of the Marine Corps. Many people don't 
realize that. Stationed out of North Carolina, we could go to Seymour 
Johnson, we could go to New River, or go to Cherry Point and see these 
men and women serving every day--and the ones who served before them 
who are now part of our veteran population. We should thank them all 
for their current service or their past service.
  I say to the Presiding Officer, the Senator from Arkansas, I want to 
thank you for your service because you served bravely in combat 
positions before entering the Senate. That is another amazing thing 
about the veterans. They continue to serve. If you go to a coffee shop, 
you may see a huddle of veterans around somebody who is organizing the 
event. That is probably a veteran making sure veterans are speaking 
with each other and working through some of the challenges some of them 
have when they are put in very difficult situations or, if you go into 
a community center, you will almost always see a veteran there 
continuing to serve, even after they ended their Active-Duty service.
  On Veterans Day, we should make it a point to go to every person we 
know who is a veteran and thank them. We should make sure that 
everybody we see in uniform--I will be at the airport probably Thursday 
evening or Friday. I will make it a point to go to every single person 
I see in uniform and thank them for their service. We owe that to them 
for all they do for us.
  I think, on the one hand, we need to think about veterans, especially 
on Veterans Day, but as Senator Hoeven said, we need to think about 
them every day. As a Senator, the way we do that is not just by 
thinking but by doing. What more can I do in my capacity on the 
Veterans' Affairs Committee or in my capacity on the Senate Armed 
Services Committee to make service easier and safer? After they move 
out of Active status to veteran status, what more can we do for them? 
There are a lot of things we can do; one is to make sure they get an 
opportunity to have a job that, in many cases, will leverage the skills 
they learned when they were in the military into private sector jobs.
  Mr. President, you and I sponsored a bill--the VALOR Act--that will 
be brought up before the Senate that helps to actually expedite the 
process of having those who have served in the military to get hired. 
It makes it easier for employers to put them in apprenticeship 
positions, where maybe they leverage some of the skills they learned 
while on Active Duty but get them in good-paying jobs to support 
themselves and their families.
  There are a number of other things we have to do for others who are 
veterans that I think are particularly important. When we talk about 
post-traumatic stress or talk about traumatic brain injury, those are, 
in some cases, invisible wounds of war. We need to make sure and 
understand why it is that nearly every day 20 veterans take their lives 
through suicide. To what extent could that be something we just simply 
didn't know about that veteran? Why are they disproportionately more 
likely to do it? Many of them, incidentally--the veterans today who 
have this disproportionately high amount of suicide incidents--are 
veterans from the Vietnam war. We need to figure out how to reach back 
to that population--a significant number of whom never seek VA medical 
services--to provide them with the resources they need to work through 
these sorts of challenges.
  We need to make sure healthcare is available across the map. We need 
to recognize that challenge in North Carolina is vastly different than 
the same challenge in, say, South Dakota.
  We have a State population of 10 million people--almost approaching 1 
million veterans. When you include the spouses and families, it is well 
above it. We need to make sure they are getting healthcare and services 
where it is most convenient for them. I think some of that will be 
providing them with a choice to go to the doctor who makes the most 
sense for them. A lot of it will be providing a brick-and-mortar 
presence of the VA so they can be

[[Page S7089]]

among other people who are actually dealing with the same sorts of 
circumstances, and they are actually being served by--about half the 
population in our veterans hospitals and our healthcare centers are 
veterans themselves.
  This is a very important part of the broader solution we need to 
provide to our veterans as we continue to build a relationship with 
them for the rest of their lives. We will never finish all the work we 
should do. We will keep on making installments into a debt we can never 
repay, but what we need to do on November 11 is support our veterans by 
showing our gratitude and our thanks for their service. On this 
Veterans Day, make an extra effort to thank a veteran. Thank a veteran 
spouse. Thank the child of a veteran for their service to this great 
Nation. We will never be able to fully repay the debt we owe them, but 
we can make a lot of installments as individual citizens and as Members 
of this Congress. As long as I am in the Senate, that is what I intend 
to do.
  I say to the Presiding Officer, thank you, again, for your service, 
and thank you to all the men and women who served before.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The bill clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mrs. MURRAY. I ask unanimous consent that I be allowed to speak as in 
morning business.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                               Healthcare

  Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I appreciate all of my colleagues from 
both sides of the aisle who will be joining us here this afternoon and 
thank them for their leadership on our legislation and for taking the 
time to speak today.
  We are now exactly 1 week into open enrollment, and it has been 3 
weeks since Chairman Alexander and I put forward a bipartisan bill to 
stabilize our healthcare markets and lower patients' healthcare costs. 
So I wanted to come this afternoon to talk for a few minutes about what 
it means that so many people nationwide are signing up for coverage and 
why there is no good reason for Republican leadership to wait another 
minute before bringing up our bill for a vote.
  It is still early, but what we are seeing so far is that millions of 
people across our country are going to healthcare.gov to shop for 
coverage. Some 200,000 signed up on the first day. That is more than 
double the amount from last year. The vast majority will get tax 
credits to help cover their costs. In fact, some who are struggling the 
most will find they can save even more this year because of how our 
current healthcare system absorbs cost increases.
  But there is no question that premiums are going up in many places 
and that fewer coverage options are available and not every consumer is 
protected. One woman--Melissa--told the Washington Post this week that 
she is ``joining the ranks of the uninsured'' for the first time in her 
life as a 51-year-old. She said that she doesn't qualify for subsidies 
and that given how much her premiums would increase, her insurance 
costs would have been more than her mortgage payments each month. 
Melissa is one of the people paying the price for President Trump's 
healthcare sabotage and the Republican leadership's--so far--
willingness to cheer him along.
  It is unacceptable that patients and families are having to take on 
this burden. Let's remember that when someone goes to sign up for 
healthcare coverage, they are not doing it as a Republican or a 
Democrat, they are doing it as a parent or a caregiver or a business 
owner who wants to stay healthy and financially secure.
  Here in Washington, DC, healthcare has become bogged down in 
politics, but in cities and towns across the country, it is about 
taking care of yourselves and your loved ones. That is why so many 
people are going online to shop for coverage despite the President's 
insistence that healthcare in the United States was going to 
``implode,'' regardless of the fact that to make implosion a reality, 
President Trump--among his many other efforts at sabotage--shortened 
the enrollment period this year and gutted investments in outreach and 
advertising and caused premiums for those people to increase by double 
digits on the average. Patients and families deserve so much better.
  I have said it before: The frustrating thing is that all this could 
have been avoided. Way back in September, Chairman Alexander and I were 
on the verge of an agreement to stabilize healthcare markets and lower 
premiums for the coming year and for 2019. Our agreement would have 
provided multiyear certainty on the out-of-pocket cost reduction 
subsidies that President Trump decided to stop paying even though the 
law says he is required to do so. Had we been able to move faster, our 
legislation would have resulted in lower premiums right away for 2018. 
But Republican leaders pressed the ``pause'' button on bipartisan 
negotiations so they could try one more time to jam partisan repeal 
through the Senate, and we lost a lot of precious time.
  Our bill, the Lamar Alexander-Patty Murray Senate bill, would do a 
lot of good right now and over the next years. If Republican leadership 
takes up our legislation now and passes it, families would see rebates 
this year and lower healthcare costs next year because our bill is 
designed to ensure that the benefit of greater certainty is passed on 
to patients and taxpayers, not hoarded by insurance companies.
  Our deal would also invest in open enrollment and outreach for 2019, 
so more people would be covered. It would allow States more flexibility 
to innovate as the Affordable Care Act always intended. It would mark a 
critical step away from this harmful partisanship on healthcare and 
toward working under regular order on solutions that make healthcare 
work better for the people we serve.
  Finally, this legislation would send a critical message to patients 
and families that when Congress sets aside partisan difference and 
focuses on what is best for our country, we can deliver a result, as 
Chairman Alexander often says.
  More than 200 groups representing doctors, hospitals, State 
officials, Governors, and patients have endorsed our bill. The 
nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office says it would do exactly what 
it was intended to do--stabilize markets and bring down healthcare 
costs--while returning $3.8 billion to taxpayers.
  Twelve Senate Democrats and 12 Senate Republicans cosponsored it. We 
are continuing to build support, and there is no question that it would 
pass here with a filibuster-proof majority if it were brought to the 
floor. And while the Senate shouldn't need President Trump's signoff to 
take a position on ways to fix the Nation's healthcare system, the 
President has supported this process moving forward.
  So here we are, and right now it is up to Republican leaders. They 
can choose to stay in a partisan corner and reject an opportunity to 
lower patients' healthcare costs in a bipartisan way, or they can do 
what people across the country want them to do and put patients over 
politics.
  I do want to note that if Republican leaders hadn't gotten the 
message, voters made it pretty clear last night that they reject the 
deeply harmful partisanship we have seen on healthcare.
  It is well past time for Republican leaders to give up the ghost on 
TrumpCare, declare it dead, and work with Democrats to get real 
solutions. That starts with our bipartisan bill to lower healthcare 
costs and stabilize the markets, because if they don't, they can be 
sure they will be held accountable.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from New Hampshire.
  Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, I am pleased to join my colleague from 
Washington, Senator Murray, and congratulate her and Senator Alexander 
on being able to reach agreement to move forward to address the 
uncertainty in the marketplace.
  Like Senator Murray, I also want to begin with what we are seeing 
going on in this open enrollment period. Despite all of the efforts to 
undermine the Affordable Care Act, to shorten the time

[[Page S7090]]

period in which people can sign up, to make it more difficult by having 
the site closed for part of Sundays, we are seeing a record number of 
people enroll in the initial days of open enrollment.
  According to news reports, on the first day alone, about 1 million 
people visited healthcare.gov and more than 200,000 people selected a 
plan for 2018. That is almost double the number who signed up last year 
on the first day.
  For anybody who is still thinking about it, you have until December 
15, so sign up early. As my colleague from New Hampshire, Senator 
Hassan, says, it is the best Christmas shopping you can do--take care 
of your healthcare. Go to healthcare.gov and shop around, get the best 
deal, and enroll during this open enrollment period.
  This surge in signups is especially remarkable in light of the widely 
publicized efforts by the Trump administration to depress enrollment. 
The administration has slashed the advertising and outreach budget by 
90 percent, cut the open onrollment period by half, and shut down the 
marketplace website for 12 hours on Sundays, taking away valuable 
weekend hours when people have free time to explore plans.
  I think the healthy volume of enrollments sends two very important 
messages.
  First, it shows again that ordinary citizens, faith groups, insurance 
navigators, and other private organizations have done an amazing job of 
filling the outreach void that has been created by this effort by the 
administration to cut back on letting people know about the website and 
how to enroll. Those folks have spent countless hours getting out the 
word that the Affordable Care Act remains the law of the land and that 
those who qualify for financial assistance can purchase high-quality, 
affordable coverage.
  The second message that I think is important from this strong 
enrollment is a message that has been echoed in recent public opinion 
polls. It is one that we saw in the turnout in the Virginia elections 
last night. It is that a clear majority of the American people support 
the Affordable Care Act, that they reject efforts to sabotage it and 
they want Members of Congress to work together to strengthen it, just 
as Senator Murray said.
  I am very pleased that we have come together in the Senate to do just 
that. We have come together in support of bipartisan efforts led by 
Senator Murray and Senator Lamar Alexander, the chair and ranking 
member of the HELP Committee. They have come together to stabilize the 
Affordable Care Act and the marketplaces and bring down premiums. I am 
proud to be one of the 12 Democrats who were original cosponsors with 
12 Republicans of this legislation. This balanced agreement, which was 
negotiated by Senators Alexander and Murray over many months, is our 
best bet for restoring stability to the marketplaces in the short run 
and giving us the time we need to negotiate longer term to deal with 
other changes to the health law to make it work better.
  I am especially pleased that the Alexander-Murray agreement provides 
for the continuation of cost-sharing reduction payments, or CSRs, which 
are payments that are necessary to keep premiums, deductibles, and 
copayments affordable for working families. They are extended for 2 
years in this bill. Without these payments, the cost of coverage will 
skyrocket, insurers will leave the marketplaces--as we have already 
seen, as the Trump administration has said they are going to 
discontinue those payments--and millions of people will lose their 
health coverage. This is an opportunity for us to keep that from 
happening. Both Democrats and Republicans have recognized that these 
cost-sharing reduction payments, these CSRs, are an orderly, necessary 
subsidy that keeps down the cost of health coverage for everyday 
Americans.
  In recent months, I have heard from hundreds of people across New 
Hampshire about the enormous difference that healthcare reform has made 
in their lives. We are a small State--we have just over 1.3 million 
people--but nearly 94,000 Granite Staters have gotten individual health 
coverage through the Obama marketplace, and nearly 50,000 have gotten 
coverage thanks to the Medicaid expansion, which had bipartisan support 
in New Hampshire. So that is about a tenth of New Hampshire that is 
covered either through the Affordable Care Act or through the expansion 
of Medicaid. And for us in New Hampshire, it has been particularly 
critical in responding and providing treatment to those people with 
substance use disorders.

  Patricia Tucker has written to me. She is a substance use disorder 
counselor in Northfield, NH, and she talks about how grateful she is 
for the Medicaid expansion. She writes:

       I am seeing people come for help that were not able to get 
     help in the past because they couldn't afford it. They are 
     getting help and remaining abstinent. If one mother gets 
     clean, this affects so many others.

  She goes on to say:

       [I treat] one mother who has two children. She now cares 
     for these children and has a full-time job. In the past, she 
     lived off the state and did not care for anyone, including 
     herself. Multiply this by thousands, just in New Hampshire, 
     and this makes such a big difference.

  And think about how across the country we have affected people with 
substance use disorders because they can now get treatment.
  I agree with Patricia Tucker and so many others who have contacted me 
about the Affordable Care Act. We are grateful for the progress, and we 
refuse to be taken backward. That is why the bipartisan agreement 
hammered out by Senator Alexander and Senator Murray is such an 
important breakthrough. This agreement stands on its merits as a good-
faith, win-win compromise. But just as important and maybe even more 
important, these two Senators have given us a template for bipartisan 
negotiations on other critical matters that lie ahead, including tax 
reform, reauthorizing the community health centers and the Children's 
Health Insurance Program, and reaching an agreement on the 2018 budget.
  The Senate is at its best when we observe regular order, when we 
honor the committee process, and when we work across the aisle and make 
principled compromises and get big things done for the American people.
  In a Senate that is nearly evenly divided between Republicans and 
Democrats, bipartisanship is the only productive way forward. This is 
how the great majority of Americans want us to conduct the Senate's 
business, and this is especially true on matters such as healthcare and 
tax reform that impact families in New Hampshire and all across 
America.
  I am grateful to people across our country who have gotten out the 
word about the health insurance open enrollment period that began on 
November 1 and continues through December 15. I am heartened by the 
surge in enrollments. I am encouraged by bipartisan progress in the 
Senate to stabilize the health insurance marketplaces. I certainly hope 
the leadership in the Senate allows this bill to come to the floor 
because we know we have the votes to pass it.
  Instead of partisan efforts to undermine the law and take health 
insurance away from people, let's embrace the spirit of the Alexander-
Murray agreement. Let's work together in a good-faith, bipartisan 
fashion to build a healthcare system that leaves no American behind.
  Thank you, Mr. President.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Minnesota.
  Mr. FRANKEN. Mr. President, I rise today to talk about the importance 
of bipartisan action on healthcare, as the Senator from New Hampshire 
just did.
  Over the past year, I have traveled all around Minnesota to talk with 
individuals and families and community leaders about healthcare. I have 
heard from mothers and fathers who have been worried about losing the 
healthcare their children need to access lifesaving services. I have 
heard from daughters who have been panicked about how to pay for their 
parents' long-term care and prescription drug costs. I have heard from 
hospital executives in rural areas, much like the rural areas in 
Arkansas, who have been concerned about how they are going to keep 
their doors open.
  What is abundantly clear from all of these conversations is that 
Minnesotans want Congress to work together to build on the Affordable 
Care Act, lower healthcare costs, and support policies that work. That 
is why I believe, first, that Congress must act immediately to

[[Page S7091]]

pass bipartisan legislation to stabilize the individual market. Second, 
we must do all we can to support strong enrollment in our health 
insurance exchanges so that all consumers, regardless of their health 
needs, can find high-quality, affordable health insurance coverage. 
Third, it is time to reauthorize the Children's Health Insurance 
Program. Let me take each of those in turn.
  When Republican efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act failed, the 
Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee got to work and 
developed a bipartisan plan to stabilize the individual market. As a 
member of that committee, I participated in numerous hearings with 
witnesses who spanned the ideological spectrum, solicited input from 
State and national leaders, and worked in good faith with all of my 
colleagues to develop legislation that is truly a compromise bill.
  This legislation, referred to as the Alexander-Murray deal, will 
contain healthcare costs for consumers, provide certainty to insurers 
participating in these markets, and provide States with the flexibility 
they need to develop innovative, local solutions. I am proud of what we 
were able to accomplish.
  What I am most proud of is that this bill includes a provision that 
will reverse a decision by the Trump administration that would 
effectively punish Minnesota for pushing forward a bipartisan plan to 
stabilize the individual market--a bipartisan plan in our State 
legislature.
  Last year, after our State experienced dramatic premium rate hikes in 
the individual markets, State leaders worked together in a bipartisan 
way to pass a reinsurance program to contain these costs, but the 
program's enactment was contingent upon approval from the Federal 
Government.
  After months of foot-dragging, the Federal Government finally 
approved the State's reinsurance plan as part of the 1332 waiver 
proposal, but the Federal Government simultaneously cut Federal funding 
for MinnesotaCare, which is another program in the State that provides 
affordable health coverage to working families. Thus, our State had to 
choose whether to support a bipartisan proposal to stabilize the 
individual market and lower premiums for consumers or swallow hundreds 
of millions of dollars in lost Federal funding. It was an impossible 
choice that was completely unnecessary. That is why I set to work to 
fix it.
  After weeks of productive negotiations, I am pleased to report that 
the Alexander-Murray deal will prevent the Trump administration from 
imposing these cuts on Minnesota. But my State wasn't the only one 
threatened by potential funding cuts. The Alexander-Murray bill would 
prevent such problems from occurring in any other State as well, and it 
would do much more.
  According to the Congressional Budget Office, this agreement would 
reduce the deficit by billions of dollars, lower premiums in 2019, and 
preserve coverage options for individuals and families. In short, it is 
not only good for Minnesota, it is good for the entire country. This 
bill is a bipartisan win-win-win.
  Now our job is to pass this legislation into law. At the same time, 
we must do everything we can to drive up enrollment in the health 
insurance exchanges. Regardless of party, if we want to ensure that 
consumers have access to affordable, high-quality health insurance 
coverage, we have to get people to sign up for the coverage. More 
people equals better risk pools, which equals lower premiums. It is 
really that simple.
  Look, the Trump administration has done everything in its power to 
undermine ObamaCare. It has halved the amount of time that people have 
to enroll in coverage, it slashed funding for outreach and enrollment 
efforts, and it deliberately misled consumers about the benefits of the 
ACA and individual requirements for coverage. But we have the power to 
combat these efforts.
  Let's get people enrolled. Open enrollment started on November 1 and 
will end for most people on December 15. Minnesotans are lucky in that 
they have until January 14 to sign up for coverage. But everyone who 
doesn't receive coverage from their employer or through Medicare needs 
to sign up now, so I urge my colleagues to get their constituents to 
visit healthcare.gov and shop around and then enroll in coverage.
  Lastly, it is time to reauthorize the Children's Health Insurance 
Program, community health centers, and the National Health Service 
Corps. These have always been bipartisan programs. There is no reason 
this should be any different today.
  The anxiety that people in Minnesota and across the country feel 
about their access to healthcare is not inevitable; it is the result of 
political decisions made here in Washington, DC. Let's prove to the 
country that we are not here to fight with each other, we are here to 
fight for them. Let's show them that we can get something done. Let's 
take action to protect healthcare and give our constituents, at long 
last, some peace of mind.
  Thank you, Mr. President.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Toomey). Without objection, it is so 
ordered.
  Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I rise today to call for bipartisan 
action on healthcare.
  I think it was interesting to learn that the citizens of Virginia who 
voted yesterday listed as their top issue healthcare. There was 
obviously an issue there where there had been no Medicaid expansion, 
and they were unhappy with the way it had been handled by the 
legislature there as well as Republicans who were in charge of the 
legislature, and they appeared to be pushing for a change.
  We have an opportunity here to make a bipartisan change. I think it 
is exactly the kind of message that we got yesterday. In my State, we 
have a Republican legislature and a Democratic Governor. They came 
together to do something about some of the rates, particularly in our 
rural areas. They focused on reinsurance, cost sharing--some of the 
things in the bipartisan agreement reached between Senator Alexander 
and Senator Murray. We have 12 Democrats and 12 Republicans 
cosponsoring that bill. Support includes the American Cancer Society, 
the American Diabetes Society, the March of Dimes, and the Arthritis 
Foundation--and those are just the A's.
  The American people want us to work together to make fixes to the 
Affordable Care Act. The day it passed, I said that it was a beginning 
and not an end. Unfortunately, we have been stymied in trying to make 
those kind of changes, and this is one bipartisan big opportunity to do 
it. I think it is a sensible bipartisan approach.
  As we all know, both Senator Alexander and Senator Murray held a 
series of hearings and discussions on commonsense solutions to bring 
down insurance costs with Senators on both sides of the aisle. There 
were Governors and insurance experts, and we worked hard to make sure 
there was some agreement on this bill. I fought for provisions that 
would help States apply for and receive waivers to give them some 
flexibility to construct their healthcare system and to bring down the 
costs without losing Federal funding. That is something my State did. 
As I mentioned, my State, with a Republican-led legislature and a 
Democratic Governor, came together to apply for a waiver and a 
reinsurance provision.
  The bill would also expedite the review of waiver applications for 
proposals that have already been approved for other States that are 
experiencing certain circumstances--emergency circumstances--where they 
need to make changes.
  The legislation also shortens the overall time period that States 
would have to wait for the Federal Government to decide whether to 
approve their waivers.
  All of these are good fundamental concepts--this idea that States 
should have some flexibility, that they should be able to apply for 
waivers, and that they should be able to get their answers as soon as 
possible from the Federal Government. That is what this bill is about. 
Not only does the bill improve the process for waivers and flexibility 
for the States, like we have seen in Minnesota, where already the 
projected

[[Page S7092]]

numbers brought the rates down something like 20 percent, but the 
nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office says the Murray-Alexander bill 
would actually cut the deficit by $3.8 billion over the next 10 years. 
That is hard to argue with.
  It is clear that this legislation could get support from both sides 
of the aisle to make healthcare better for Americans. We have a 
majority of Senators supporting this bill. So we need to get it done 
because the longer we wait, the more the markets don't know what is 
going on, the more confusion that is created, and the more the 
administration is doing things that sabotages the Affordable Care Act.
  We need this stability in the system. Passing the bill would be an 
important step forward, but we still must do more to bring down the 
costs for middle-class families. A big part of that is addressing the 
skyrocketing costs of prescription drugs. I have heard from people 
across Minnesota who are struggling to afford the medicine they need. 
This is about the woman in Duluth who told me that she chose not to 
fill her last prescription because that one drug would cost a whole 25 
percent of her income. It is about a woman in St. Paul who, even with 
Medicare, couldn't afford $663 a month for the medicine she needs. It 
is about someone from Crystal, MN, who told me: I am practically going 
without food to pay for the prescription. It is heartbreaking that this 
is happening in America.
  Reducing the cost of prescription drugs has bipartisan support in 
Congress, and the President has said he wants to get something done. He 
has said: The drug companies are ``getting away with murder.'' Those 
are his words. That is what he said.
  So what can we do? Republicans and Democrats could come together and 
act right now. I have a bill that has 33 cosponsors that lifts the ban 
that makes it illegal for Medicare to negotiate prices for prescription 
drugs for 41 million seniors. I think 41 million seniors are pretty 
good at getting bargains and deals, and they deserve to have someone 
negotiating on their behalf; that is, the government negotiating for 
Medicare. Except, why don't we negotiate, like we do for the VA, and 
like other countries do? We don't negotiate because there is a 
provision in law that says that the government is not allowed to 
negotiate on behalf of 41 million seniors with the drug companies. They 
are just set. Guess what that means. That is a big part of the reason 
why our drug prices are double the cost of those in Canada--because we 
are just taking it and we are not negotiating.
  Another idea, bringing up Canada, is that Senator McCain and I have a 
bill that would allow less expensive drugs to be sold in the United 
States. To me, that is a way of putting pressure on our own drug 
companies to put out better prices if they know there is going to be 
competition.
  Senator Grassley of Iowa and I have a bill to stop something called 
pay-for-delay. That is when big pharmaceutical companies actually pay 
off generic companies to keep less expensive products off the market. 
This bill would save taxpayers $2.9 billion. Do you know why? Because 
right now there is no competition or very little competition, and they 
are actually paying their competitors to stay off the market. The 
competitors have decided: Well, I get more money to be paid to stay off 
the market than if I actually competed.
  Think about what a rip-off that is for the American people. We are 
allowing this to go on while the consumers are paying the price. How 
much? We know the government alone is going to save $2.9 billion if we 
stop this practice. Consumers would save most likely around that same 
amount because they are paying all the copays. Both the government is 
ripped off and the consumers are ripped off, and the only ones making 
money off of it are the drug companies.
  Another idea is, Senator Lee and I have a bill that would allow 
temporary importation of safe drugs that have been on the market in 
another country for at least 10 years when there isn't healthy 
competition in our own country. Again, if your drug companies that are 
messing around, charging high prices and not allowing competition in--
if you know there might be foreign competition coming in, that is an 
incentive because you want to then make sure that doesn't happen 
because you know that if you keep your prices high and you do things to 
disallow competition, you are going to have some major competition. I 
don't know how else we bring the prices down without allowing more 
competition.
  I also have a bipartisan bill with Senators Grassley, Lee, Feinstein, 
and Leahy, which is called the CREATES Act, to put a stop to other 
pharmaceutical company tactics, such as refusing to provide samples to 
generic companies that are supposed to be allowed to compete with them. 
According to the Congressional Budget Office, this legislation would 
save approximately $3.6 billion.
  As we hear about tax reform and hear about the debt we might be 
seeing expand if something like this goes forward, then we ask 
yourselves: What is not in those bills? Why aren't we saving some money 
for the American people and reducing the debt by allowing for this 
competition, by allowing for the samples, by allowing for more 
generics, by stopping this practice of companies paying each other to 
keep their competitors off the market?
  What this healthcare debate has been about for the last year, where 
repeatedly there have been attempts to repeal the Affordable Care Act--
it has been about that. The American people made it really clear, they 
want to make it about something else. They want to make it about 
improvements to the system we have now to make it easier for them. One 
way is the Alexander-Murray bill, which I strongly support. I am one of 
the cosponsors. It is smart. It works with the States, both Democratic 
and Republican States--blue States, red States. We want to see that 
kind of flexibility. The other way is to take a stand, be willing to 
take on the pharmaceutical industry, and take on some of the cost 
issues when it comes to prescription drugs.
  Let's come together in the Senate, as an initial move, and pass the 
Murray-Alexander bill. We must do that, and we must do it by the end of 
the year. Then we can go on from there to actually do something about 
the cost of prescription drugs.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Michigan.
  Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, there are a number of matters where we 
disagree in the U.S. Senate, and they range from deeply held 
foundational beliefs to the smallest details of legislative language. 
Despite these disagreements, I believe there is a lot we can all agree 
on.
  I hope I speak for every Member of Congress in saying that in this 
great Nation of ours, hard work should always be rewarded. If you play 
by the rules and do the right thing, you should have an opportunity to 
earn a good life for yourself and for your family. Our mothers, 
fathers, and others before us have worked hard to ensure that we have a 
fair shot at the American dream. Unfortunately, it feels like the 
fabric of the American dream has started to fray for far too many 
families. Even more troubling, we are seeing nominees from this 
administration who seem committed to actively unraveling the support 
and the protections that help workers get ahead.
  Today we are considering the nomination of Peter Robb to be general 
counsel of the National Labor Relations Board. Mr. Robb would be 
responsible for ensuring safe working conditions and fair compensation 
for American workers. He would be tasked with protecting the treasured 
right of workers to engage in good-faith negotiations with their 
employers.
  However, a brief look at Mr. Robb's career reveals a clear track 
record of working to undermine our Nation's workers and middle class on 
behalf of corporate executives. To Mr. Robb's credit, he is not trying 
to hide his record or run away from his record. All you have to do is 
visit his firm's website, and you will see the experiences he is proud 
to display. I believe it is a preview of how he will approach his 
position at the National Labor Relations Board. His self-proclaimed 
accomplishments include: advising large corporations on mergers, 
acquisitions, and plant closings; securing labor injunctions; and 
bringing suits against labor organizations.

[[Page S7093]]

  When someone tells you who they are, believe them. While I certainly 
believe that every American and corporation is entitled to vigorous 
representation by their lawyers, I also believe Senators must evaluate 
every nominee's full body of work. Let's be clear about how Mr. Robb 
has chosen to spend his professional life: helping management close 
plants and cut jobs, suing unions, delaying workers' rights to 
collectively bargain, and defending companies that violate workplace 
safety and fair pay laws.
  At a time when corporate profits and executive compensation have 
skyrocketed and worker wages are stagnant, I have no confidence in Mr. 
Robb's ability to be a neutral arbiter between labor and management, 
let alone advocate for the safety and the well-being of America's 
working men and women. Our Nation's workers deserve a nominee who will 
protect their right to negotiate for fair pay and safe working 
conditions, not someone who has spent his entire career litigating 
against workers. I will be voting against Mr. Robb's confirmation, and 
I strongly urge my colleagues to do the same.
  I yield the floor.
  Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, today we are voting on the nomination 
of Peter Robb for general counsel of the National Labor Relations 
Board, NLRB.
  As general counsel, Mr. Robb will have the important job of helping 
workers who feel their right to organize collectively has been violated 
or assisting employers when some of their employees want to form a 
union.
  Mr. Robb will have an opportunity to help restore the Board to the 
role of a neutral umpire in labor disputes.
  While partisanship at the Board did not start under the previous 
administration, it became far worse.
  When the Board is too partisan, it creates instability in our 
Nation's workplaces and creates confusion for employers, employees, and 
unions.
  For example, in 2015, at the previous general counsel's urging, an 
NLRB decision dramatically expanded ``joint employer'' liability, and 
this increased liability makes it much more likely a company will find 
it more practical to own and operate its stores, taking away the 
opportunity for a worker to own and run their own franchise.
  This decision was the biggest attack on the opportunity for small 
business men and women to make their way into the middle class that 
anyone has seen in a long time, threatening to destroy the American 
Dream for owners of the Nation's 780,000 franchise locations.
  Or consider the previous general counsel's aggressive application of 
the National Labor Relations Act to protect certain employees' 
belligerent, threatening, and discriminatory conduct.
  One troubling decision involved an employer that fired a picketing 
employee who engaged in racist and offensive conduct on a picket line.
  The Board found that the employee's remarks were ``racist, offensive 
and reprehensible,'' and violated the company's nondiscrimination 
policies and the union's conduct rules; yet the Board still ruled that 
the employer's discharge of the employee was unlawful.
  This type of Board decision defies common sense and makes it more 
difficult for employers to maintain safe workplaces free of 
discrimination and harassment.
  Mr. Robb is extremely qualified to be general counsel of the NLRB.
  He currently works as the director of labor and employment at the law 
firm Downs Rachlin and Marin.
  He served as chief counsel to NLRB Member Robert Hunter and was a 
regional field attorney for the NLRB in Baltimore.
  Mr. Robb earned his B.A. in economics from Georgetown University and 
his J.D. from the University of Maryland School of Law.
  His experience and prudence will serve him well at the NLRB.
  I urge my colleagues to join me in voting to confirm Peter Robb for 
general counsel of the National Labor Relations Board.
  Mr. PETERS. I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. SCHATZ. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                      Nomination of William Wehrum

  Mr. SCHATZ. Mr. President, the Senate has, actually, already 
considered Bill Wehrum to be the Assistant Administrator for Air and 
Radiation at the Environmental Protection Agency, who is the person in 
charge of the rules to administer the Clean Air Act at the EPA. This 
person has already been considered, and the Senate decided that he was 
not right for the job.
  Over 10 years ago, President Bush nominated Mr. Wehrum to head the 
Office of Air and Radiation at the EPA. He was rejected because his 6-
year record as an employee at the EPA told the Senators all that they 
needed to know. As the ranking member, Jim Jeffords, put it at the 
time: ``Mr. Wehrum's disdain for the Clean Air Act is alarming.'' If 
you disagree with the foundational Federal law that we use to keep our 
air clean, then it is hard to believe that you can competently lead the 
EPA's efforts when it comes to protecting our right to clean air. A 
decade later, nothing has changed. Mr. Wehrum has done nothing that 
should change our minds about his ability to lead the EPA.
  This, of course, is part of a pattern. This administration continues 
to nominate anti-science, pro-pollution, climate-denying people to lead 
the U.S. agencies that are in charge of science and climate.
  Scott Pruitt has denied a century's worth of established science and 
basic facts that say that climate change is real, urgent, and caused by 
humans. He now leads the No. 1 Federal Agency that is charged with 
working on climate change.
  Then there is Jim Bridenstine, who hopes to lead NASA, which is one 
of our Nation's top science agencies. He, too, is still on the fence 
about climate change.
  Meanwhile, 13 Federal agencies, including the EPA and NASA, just 
published a dire report that reads that greenhouse gases released by 
human activity are to blame for rising temperatures and severe weather 
throughout the world.
  This is why Mr. Wehrum should not go any further. It is really very 
simple. Our own government scientists say that climate change is real, 
urgent, and caused by humans.
  If you do not want to take their word for it, here in the United 
States in this year alone, a record number of category 4 hurricanes 
killed dozens of people and destroyed or damaged entire communities in 
the southern United States and Puerto Rico. Wildfires killed dozens of 
people and burned more than 8.4 million acres in the Northwest. 
Droughts lasting for months wiped out farmers' crops and forced 
ranchers to sell livestock in the Midwest. The city of Seattle had soot 
on cars from the wildfires. For a period, the State of Montana, 
depending on where you were, looked like it was literally on fire.
  The U.S. Forest Service's budget is soon to be more than 50 percent 
firefighting. This is supposed to be the Forest Service for the 
conservation and management of our forests, and now it is the Federal 
firefighting of our forests. There have been 15 severe weather events 
this year that have resulted in losses exceeding $1 billion. That is 
what insurance companies and reinsurance companies consider to be the 
threshold. They consider a big event--a catastrophic event--from an 
insurance standpoint to be a $1 billion event. We had 15 of them this 
year in the United States. In the past 10 years, the U.S. Government 
has spent more than $350 billion in helping communities recover from 
severe weather, and that is before our getting through with the various 
and necessary disaster supplemental budget requests that are coming 
down for Florida, Houston, and Puerto Rico.
  Look, severe weather is a reality or whatever you want to call it. If 
you feel uncomfortable politically calling it ``climate change,'' fine, 
but severe weather is actually already happening. It is now a moral 
issue, and it is a fiscal issue. It has taken a huge toll on our 
economy, on the American taxpayer, and on local communities. For the 
most part, we do not budget for

[[Page S7094]]

these costs because we have decided that these are one-time events, but 
they just happen to be one-time events that are occurring more and more 
frequently and that are costing more and more.
  Because of the leadership vacuum that Scott Pruitt and Donald Trump 
have created, States and cities and the private sector have been 
stepping up so that the United States can stay on track to cut carbon 
emissions and fight climate change. Yet the Federal Government still 
has a responsibility here, not just a moral responsibility but a legal 
one, for the climate will keep changing, the costs will keep rising, 
and more and more people will feel the effects. Instead of stepping up 
so that our Federal debt does not balloon and our coastlines do not 
erode and our security is not threatened, this administration keeps 
nominating people like Mr. Wehrum to deny that climate is an issue and 
that the government ought to act.
  Throughout his career, Mr. Wehrum has demonstrated antipathy for the 
very laws that he is now going to be tasked with upholding. When he 
held this position in an acting capacity in the 2000s--in other words, 
he was filling in until he was confirmed but was never confirmed--he 
was sued dozens of times for not doing his job. Time and again, the 
courts found that, in fact, he was putting special interests over 
science and over the public good. This is not just a rhetorical 
statement. These are 27 times that Mr. Wehrum lost in court for 
exceeding his authorities under the law.
  Here is where he kept getting specifically into trouble. Mr. Wehrum 
is a former lawyer for the very industries that the EPA regulates--
chemical companies, utility companies, the auto industry. This is the 
experience that he relied on while he worked at the EPA, which is fair 
enough so far, but when the Agency started working on a rule that 
regulated pollution from powerplants, Mr. Wehrum took language from his 
former law firm--again, which represented powerplants--and gave it to 
the EPA to put into the rule. In other words, the EPA did not look to 
experts and scientists to decide how best to regulate powerplants; it 
looked to the powerplants' lawyers.
  Mr. Wehrum's job was to protect clean air and public health, and he 
failed at that job by siding with special interests over that mission. 
The courts actually stepped in 27 times, and he lost 27 times. One case 
went all the way to the Supreme Court under Mr. Wehrum. The EPA said 
that it did not have the authority to regulate carbon dioxide from 
automobiles, but under U.S. law, the EPA must regulate all emissions 
that are damaging to human health and welfare, and the Supreme Court 
has acknowledged that carbon pollution fits that description.
  Just to be clear, under the EPA's responsibility to administer the 
Clean Air Act, the EPA does not just have the authority to regulate 
carbon emissions; it has the obligation to regulate carbon emissions. 
In other words, anything that is airborne that causes harm to people, 
to public health, must be regulated. The EPA does not simply decide 
which of these airborne pollutants must be regulated; it has to 
regulate all of those pollutants that cause damage to public health. 
Clearly, carbon fits that category on a commonsense level, but the 
Supreme Court also decided that. There have been more intense storms, 
as we have seen from Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, Maria, and others, that 
are certainly bad for human health and well-being, and the Supreme 
Court has agreed. The EPA has the authority and the obligation to 
regulate these greenhouse gases.
  We do not need to go through this again. Mr. Wehrum has already shown 
that he is not the right leader for the EPA. He will not commit to 
taking the necessary steps to address severe weather. He will not fight 
for clean air. He will fight for his former clients. This is not an 
accusation. It is based on exactly what he did when he was in the same 
position. It is the reason the Senate rejected him 10 years ago.
  With this kind of information in front of us, there is no way we can 
put Mr. Wehrum back in charge of the office that is tasked with 
regulating carbon pollution, not when we are facing a planetary 
emergency, not when the fiscal and human costs of inaction are so 
clear. The EPA needs leadership that understands the crisis we are 
facing and that understands and is willing to do everything in its 
power to address it. Mr. Wehrum has clearly demonstrated that he is not 
the right person for this job. I will vote no on this nominee, and I 
urge my colleagues to do the same.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  There will now be 30 minutes of debate, equally divided between the 
leaders or their designees.
  The Senator from Colorado.


                               Tax Reform

  Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, I rise today to talk about a historic 
opportunity that will soon be before this body. It is an opportunity to 
bring real relief to the American people. It is an opportunity to jolt 
our economy into a higher gear and bring real, tangible benefits to 
America's hard-working families.
  It has been over 30 years since this country last reformed its Tax 
Code. Over those 30 years, we have seen a lot of change. We have seen 
the country move from Ataris to smartphones and Wi-Fi. This photo shows 
a Ford LTD station wagon, which rolled off the assembly line 30 years 
ago. It is a car that any of us would have been excited to drive 30 
years ago. Today we have cars that drive themselves. Unfortunately, we 
still have a tax code that is made for this LTD.
  So while the world has changed around us and other countries have 
learned to craft tax codes to entice businesses to grow, our code has 
gotten more and more out of date and more and more laden with special-
interest giveaways. Our Tax Code has turned Main Street into a dead end 
and our overseas growth into a one-way street.
  Reforming the code is not only a way to give us an opportunity to end 
those giveaways, but it can also boost our economy. I applaud our 
colleagues in the House, who last week introduced and are working on a 
proposal to overhaul the tax system. In the coming days the Senate 
Finance Committee will introduce their own legislation.
  While I will mostly focus my comments today on one aspect of tax 
reform, I will note that on Friday the Tax Foundation released its 
analysis of the House tax proposal. This analysis concluded that the 
House proposal would create 975,000 full-time-equivalent jobs and push 
GDP 3.9 percent higher than it would otherwise be. Taking into account 
the economic feedback from the proposed reforms, this means taxpayers 
would end up with 4.4 percent higher income. In other words, they will 
make greater, higher income as a result of the bill that the House is 
working on today. Indeed, the Tax Foundation concluded that the total 
after-tax gain in income for a middle-class family would be nearly 
$2,600.
  Importantly, for my constituents in my home State of Colorado, the 
gain would be over $3,000. These are serious gains that will bring 
real, meaningful benefits to hard-working Americans. This is just the 
starting point for our reform. This number is over $3,000 of impact to 
the people of Colorado of additional income and tax relief. When a 
significant segment of Americans don't even have access within 24 hours 
to just a few hundred dollars, a $3,000 a year gain is a significant 
amount of money.
  Today I would like to focus on one part of the tax reform package, 
and that is the lowering of taxes on America's job creators. Because we 
have this clunky Atari-era Tax Code--this Ford LTD station wagon Tax 
Code, our tax rates are no longer competitive. They encourage companies 
to invest abroad rather than right here at home in the United States. 
Back in 1986, when this car rolled off the assembly line, our corporate 
rate was competitive. It didn't discourage companies from investing in 
the United States.
  Things have significantly changed since 1986. Foreign countries have 
figured it out. They lowered their tax rates, and now the United States 
has the highest corporate tax rate in the

[[Page S7095]]

developed world--indeed, one of the highest tax rates in the world, 
period. Consequently, businesses have moved abroad more and more. They 
invested more abroad, and in the United States they have invested less 
and less.
  It is not in the Republicans' view alone. I would draw your attention 
to this quote right here. President Obama noted this gradual 
deterioration of the corporate tax code in his 2011 State of the Union 
Address, saying:

       [O]ver the years, a parade of lobbyists has rigged the tax 
     code to benefit particular companies and industries. Those 
     with accountants or lawyers to work the system can end up 
     paying no taxes at all. But all the rest are hit with one 
     of the highest corporate tax rates in the world. It makes 
     no sense, and it has to change.

  Those are the words that President Barack Obama spoke to a joint 
session of Congress in 2011 in his State of the Union Address.
  The Council of Economic Advisers estimates that just moving the tax 
rates on corporations from the uncompetitive 35 percent to the middle-
of-the-pack 20 percent and adding permanent full expensing of capital 
investments would increase GDP from 3 percent to 5 percent above what 
is currently forecasted. That increase would not just happen in a 
decade or two, it would be front-loaded, meaning that we would see a 
fast response from this economy, with 2.4 percent to 3.2 percent higher 
GDP in the first 3 to 5 years under this proposal. That boost will not 
just be to the corporate bottom line. It will increase the average 
American household income by $4,000.
  Let me say that again. It will increase average household income in 
America by $4,000.
  Since these estimates were released, since those numbers, statistics, 
and analysis have been done, opponents of pro-growth tax reform have 
thrown everything they can at the proposals and estimates to see what 
will stick to try to bring it down. They said these numbers are too 
rosy. They said that we can't possibly get a $4,000 increase in average 
household income because that would mean more money would end up in 
bank accounts of American households than is raised in revenue by the 
corporate income tax.
  They said that corporations have been ``rolling in money'' for a long 
time. So if they wanted to invest in America they already would have. 
Some opponents say we should tax corporations more--take the profit 
that is sitting overseas and spend it as the government wishes. When 
opponents of tax relief see a company with money, their reaction is to 
take it--to take it like it is the Government's money. But we know that 
doesn't work. Even our European friends, whose residents tend to be far 
more open to socialist experiments, have rejected this notion. They 
know that tax reform is about creating the environment that will cause 
companies to invest in America, not attempting to seize profits from 
companies that can easily move elsewhere. That is why France, Germany, 
Spain, Italy, and Greece--not exactly bastions of open economic 
innovation--have lower corporate tax rates than we do.
  The chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, Kevin Hassett, told 
the Joint Economic Committee recently:

       This is not about right wing parties throwing money at rich 
     corporations. It is about economically literate governments 
     understanding that if we want wages to be higher, than we 
     have to give workers capital to work with.

  Let me say that again. This effort for tax relief is about 
``economically literate governments understanding that if we want wages 
to be higher, then we have to give workers capital to work with.''
  Let's go back to the first response we heard from opponents of tax 
relief: It is ``absurd'' to think the average American household will 
get $4,000 more in income because that is more than the country raises 
in tax revenue.
  In other words, if we took every dollar raised from corporate tax and 
handed it over to American families, they wouldn't get $4,000. That is 
the argument opponents of tax reform are saying, but this response 
simply doesn't get it.
  What is the economically literate perspective?
  Recall that a lot has changed over the last 30 years, but one thing 
hasn't changed, and that is the U.S. corporate tax rate. As you can see 
on this chart, the average OECD tax rates have dropped over time. You 
see the blue OECD line, and the orange line on the chart is straight 
across. The average OECD tax rates have dropped over time, but the U.S. 
rate stayed right where it is. The U.S. advantages that made it the 
place to invest in 1986 have slowly faded away. Other countries have 
used their tax rates to become more competitive, and companies have 
responded.
  Business investment now is unfortunately low. Indeed, Chairman 
Hassett warned that there is a crisis in our country because of the 
lack of what is called capital deepening, which is just an economist's 
term for the impact of capital stock--things such as equipment, 
structures, and intellectual property--on worker productivity.
  Worker productivity is, in turn, what drives up wages. That is what 
makes wages increase. The more productive a worker is, the more the 
employer is willing to pay that worker to keep him or her in the job 
with rising wages.
  Going to another chart, we can see the effects of that. Prior to 
1990, when corporate profits were going up by 1 percent, workers' wages 
went up by more than 1 percent. Since that time in the 1990s, we have 
seen change. From 2008 to 2016, a 1-percent increase in business 
profits corresponded with only a 0.3 percent increase in workers' 
wages. One of the biggest culprits in this is the corporate tax rate. 
It is what causes that disconnect between corporate profits and 
workers' wages.
  When a company decides whether and where to invest in new buildings, 
equipment, and research, they look at the tax rate to know what return 
is needed to make that investment profitable. The higher the tax, the 
higher the needed return. So companies facing higher taxes either don't 
invest at all or they invest in another country. That is why experts 
say that workers bear 45 percent to 75 percent of the burden of 
corporate taxes, because businesses invest in them less and less, the 
higher the tax. It is as if the corporate tax rate casts a shadow on 
the entire economy.
  We can see that shadow here. This is the way economists model the 
market for capital--factories, equipment, buildings, IP. The higher the 
price, the less the companies demand. The lower the price, the more the 
companies demand. This is a simple concept.
  Suppliers of those things are the reverse. If they have to sell at a 
low price, they don't make very much, but if they can sell at a high 
price, they make more. These two should meet in the middle, but they 
don't meet in the middle today because the government has come in and 
imposed a corporate tax. So each unit of capital costs more than it 
should because of this tax system. That means businesses only want this 
much. The producers only get this much. The government takes the rest.
  What is left? We can see right here what the government is taking. We 
can see the effect that taxes have on the economy. What is left is this 
dark-shaded triangle. This is what economists call deadweight loss. 
That is the stuff that doesn't happen because of the tax. This is the 
tax shadow--the deadweight loss. It is deadweight in our economy. In 
that shadow, business activity just doesn't happen, and workers just 
don't get the capital they need to be more productive.
  Remember, businesses are deciding whether and where to invest that 
next dollar. If the cost is too high--reflected here--they won't 
invest, at least not here in the United States. They will decide not to 
expand at all, or they will expand in a country that has a lower tax 
rate, or they will simply shut down entirely.
  I don't think the American people would be surprised by this. This is 
not news to them. They lived this for a long time. They know it well. 
They know businesses are not expanding here. They have seen businesses 
close. They have seen a slowdown in the startup of new businesses. They 
know wages haven't gone up in many years.
  They understand this shadow. Businesses don't expand. Workers are 
laid off. Money moves abroad. It is because of this high tax that 
doesn't leave us with decreases in costs, creating a deadweight loss on 
our economy. They understand it, and they know that corporations pass 
that tax on to them in the form of lower wages.

[[Page S7096]]

  But here is the good news. Help is on the way. Lowering the corporate 
tax rate lowers the rate of return needed to make investments work. It 
removes the shadow that blocks the economic sunlight. Suddenly 
businesses are operating here in the green.
  More investment in factories, buildings, equipment, and IP means more 
Americans are more productive, and that makes total sense. You get more 
done when you have a new computer than when you have an old clunky one. 
You produce more when you have a new machine on the line. Workers 
become more productive, and the companies pay them more both because 
they are bringing in more and because they want to keep those workers 
to do more. That is what happens when you lift that economic shadow 
that we talked about that corporate taxes impose and cast on our 
economy. You create more jobs, and wage competition grows income.
  This isn't just economic theory. As you can see here on this chart, 
wage increases are significantly higher in countries with lower 
corporate tax rates. We don't need just simple economic theory; we need 
economic results, and that is what this chart shows us. High-tax 
countries like the United States have weak wage growth. The United 
States is down here on this chart representing the highest statutory 
corporate rate countries. High-tax countries like the United States 
have weak wage growth--less than 1 percent, even close to zero percent. 
You can see that here. Low-tax countries--these are the lowest 
statutory corporate rate countries. These are the bottom 10 lowest 
rates. Low-tax-rate countries see a wage growth of 1 percent, 1.5 
percent, 3.5 percent, even 4 percent, and that is because they don't 
live under that economic dead weight, that tax shadow, that deadweight 
loss zone of high corporate taxes.
  It also matches my experience in talking with companies in Colorado. 
U.S. multinational corporations doing business in Colorado have told me 
that they want to expand here, but they just can't justify it when they 
look at the tax rates we have here versus around the world, especially 
in Europe. I have even heard from some foreign-based companies that do 
business in Colorado that this sort of reform--I ask unanimous consent 
to complete my remarks.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
  Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, it would entice them to invest more in 
the United States. This is real, and the American people need it.
  It is good television to say that it is absurd to think that American 
families will get more money from lowering the corporate rate than the 
tax raised in revenue, but it is wrong. It is tempting to look at a 
stash of corporate profits and think that corporations just must not 
want to invest here or ``let's just take that money,'' but that is 
wrong too. The right move is to create the tax environment that tells 
businesses that they should invest here because they can make more 
money. That is why President Obama called for corporate tax reform. 
That is why former Treasury Secretary--and one of President Obama's 
economic advisers--Larry Summers said that reducing the corporate tax 
rate and lowering the competitive disadvantage faced by American 
multinationals is ``about as close to a free lunch as tax reformers 
will ever get.'' That is what we do by lowering the tax rate. That is 
how American families end up with $4,000 more in their pockets--and not 
just one time; once this fully takes effect, that increase is 
permanent.
  Mr. President, we have a historic opportunity. The American people 
need and deserve a new and better Tax Code, a modern one designed for 
today's world, not an Atari world or a Ford LTD world.
  I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to join with us as we 
modernize our Tax Code and deliver real results for the American 
people.
  Mr. President, I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Oregon.
  Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, a few moments from now, we are going to 
come to this Chamber to vote on the nomination of Peter Robb to serve 
as general counsel for the National Labor Relations Board.
  Quite frankly, if we allow this individual to be confirmed, it will 
be a severe slap in the face to American workers. This is an individual 
who has made a career out of attacking the ability of American workers 
to get a fair share of the wealth they create. Yet here is a proposal 
to put him in a leadership position at an agency whose purpose is to 
fight to make sure workers get fair treatment. How does it make sense 
to take someone who has fought to undermine the ability of workers his 
entire life and put that person in charge of making sure American 
workers are treated fairly? Certainly, it is exactly the opposite of 
the argument Candidate Trump made when he said he was going to stand up 
for American workers. When push comes to shove, the President wants to 
shove workers down into the ditch.
  It boils down to this: The National Labor Relations Board was 
established 82 years ago in the middle of the Great Depression to 
protect workers by encouraging and promoting their right to collective 
bargaining. Think of the power of association so that workers can have 
the opportunity to have a fair share, to have a basic foundation for 
their families to thrive. That ability of workers to organize has been 
behind every advancement we have made as a middle class in America. Be 
it the 40-hour workweek, safe working conditions, standard benefits, 
each and every advance was led by workers' ability to organize. Yet 
here the President wants to put in place an individual who has done 
everything possible to take away that right, that ability to weigh in 
for basic fundamental fairness for workers.
  The responsibility of the National Labor Relations Board is more 
important today than ever. We have seen the impact of policies on 
behalf of the privileged and the powerful--incomes stagnating while the 
wealthiest Americans see their riches grow right up to the skyline. We 
have seen that anti-worker forces throughout our country have led an 
assault in State after State after State against the right of workers 
to organize and to secure safe working conditions and fair wages.
  Here we are at a time when America's workers have seen four decades 
in which their wages have been flat or declining while the rich and 
powerful have stripped off the growing wealth of this Nation for 
themselves. Income inequality has soared, wealth inequality is massive, 
and here is one more person being nominated to accentuate that 
inequality in wealth and in income.
  Back in 1981, Mr. Robb was lead attorney on the case to decertify the 
Professional Air Traffic Controllers Organization. The union was 
striking, and Mr. Robb helped President Reagan break that strike, which 
resulted in the firing of 11,000 striking workers and, as a commentator 
at the time said, forever ``undermined the bargaining of American 
workers and their labor unions.''
  When he last worked on the team at NLRB, this nominee was present for 
decisions that--and this is recounted in a book called ``Right Turn''--
``[a]ltered long-standing policy . . . narrowing the scope of 
activities subject to traditional National Labor Relations Board 
protections; broadening the permissible range of employer conduct in 
union representation campaigns; lowering the costs to employers of 
unlawful activity; and otherwise narrowing or excusing the employer to 
make changes subject to bargaining without informing unions before the 
change was made, or by permitting employers wider latitude to end the 
bargaining process by declaring impasse.''
  More recently, Mr. Robb represented Dominion Energy and successfully 
defeated a union organizing drive at the Millstone Power Station, 
bragging on his firm's website that he was able to delay the election 
for ``more than two years after the day the petition was filed.''
  As many of you know, he does not want workers to have a fair chance 
to vote on organizing a union or to work to press for a first contract 
or to seek fair wages. He has spent his career fighting against workers 
having that fair shot and defending companies against allegations from 
union members regarding unfair labor practices--all kinds of unfair 
labor practices, including age and sex discrimination. Never once in 
this long career has he been on the side of the American worker--not 
once; therefore, he has no place

[[Page S7097]]

at the head of an organization intended to support the ability of 
workers to organize and to press for a fair share.
  It is unthinkable that this nominee would ever even come to this 
Chamber. It is certainly part of an endless stream of attacks by the 
rich and powerful on working Americans that have kept their wages flat 
and declining for four decades. When are we going to see an end to this 
sort of oppression by the powerful class against the workers of the 
United States of America?
  There is one act after another by this administration--President 
Trump and his team--undermining fair wages for workers in this Nation. 
It is outrageous. This nomination is outrageous, and I encourage my 
colleagues to vote no.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Wyoming.


                      Nomination of William Wehrum

  Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, President Trump has been in office now 
for more than 9 months. He has laid out his agenda to cut punishing 
regulations, to grow the economy, and to help hard-working Americans.
  President Trump's administration has already taken important steps to 
roll back the regulatory rampage of the last 8 years. During the last 
administration, the Environmental Protection Agency issued harmful and 
punishing, overreaching regulations that hurt workers in my home State 
of Wyoming.
  According to the chamber of commerce, from 2008 to 2016, the EPA 
issued regulations that cost our economy over $60 billion each year--
significantly more than any other Federal agency. These rules had real-
life impacts. The Obama administration's so-called Clean Power Plan 
would have closed powerplants and cost America jobs. We can have both 
clean air and a growing economy. We have proven it.
  My goal is to make American energy as clean as we can, as fast as we 
can, without raising costs on American families. President Trump shares 
that goal. That is why EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt has led the 
charge in cutting redtape. The EPA has taken important steps to roll 
back the Clean Power Plan and other punishing EPA regulations.
  It is interesting. The annual cost of high-impact rules by agencies 
from 2008 to 2016--there were 13 rules by the EPA--in the red right 
here, billions and billions and billions--over $60 billion.
  Administrator Pruitt needs his full leadership team in place at the 
Agency to complete the task, so today the Senate is going to vote on 
cloture so we can consider the nomination of Bill Wehrum. He has been 
nominated to serve as EPA's Assistant Administrator for the Office of 
Air and Radiation. Mr. Wehrum has more than three decades of experience 
in environmental policy. He has worked as an environmental engineer, a 
public servant at the EPA, and is an environmental lawyer. His time at 
the EPA includes 2 years of service as the Acting Administrator of the 
Office of Air and Radiation--the same office he has now been nominated 
to lead.
  EPA's Office of Air and Radiation is critically important in terms of 
a division within the Agency. It develops national programs, policies, 
and regulations for limiting air pollution and radiation exposure. One 
of the responsibilities of this office is implementing the Clean Air 
Act, and it is a big job.
  Here is a chart. Most EPA regulatory burdens come from EPA air 
regulations; 94.5 percent from the Office of Air and Radiation 
regulatory burden in 2014; only 5.5 percent from all other EPA offices' 
regulatory burden of that same year. So under the Obama administration, 
the air office was one of the biggest regulatory abusers. According to 
the Office of Management and Budget, the EPA's air regulations were 
responsible for 95 percent of the cost of the Agency's regulations. Now 
Mr. Wehrum is going to play a key role in undoing this redtape.
  The American people need a qualified leader in the EPA air office. 
Bill Wehrum is the right man for the job. Don't take my word for it; 
former environmental Obama Justice official John Cruden said this of 
Mr. Wehrum: ``I believe he is committed to achieving clean air for all 
citizens and carefully following sound and current science.'' Marcus 
Peacock, an EPA Deputy Administrator during the Bush administration, 
praised Mr. Wehrum, saying that his ``understanding of the Clean Air 
Act may be second to none. His desire to pull up his sleeves and 
actually make the Clean Air Act work as a practical matter is second to 
none.''
  Mr. Wehrum's expertise and experience will be tremendously helpful as 
he pursues policies that will protect America's air, undo regulatory 
overreach, and allow our economy to grow. I urge all Senators to vote 
for cloture on Mr. Wehrum's nomination.
  Thank you.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Gardner). The Senator from Washington.
  Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, as President Trump continues to undermine 
worker protections and prioritize corporate profits, it is very 
critical that the NLRB is independent and is committed to promoting 
collective bargaining.
  When corporations try to take advantage of their employees, workers 
should be able to turn to the NLRB to intervene. Unfortunately, Mr. 
Robb's career as a corporate lawyer fighting against workers gives me 
great concern he will not have workers' best interest at heart in this 
role. So I will be voting no on this nomination, and I urge my 
colleagues to stand up for workers and do the same.
  I yield back our time.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. All time is yielded back.
  The question is, Will the Senate advise and consent to the Robb 
nomination?
  Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a sufficient second?
  There appears to be a sufficient second.
  The clerk will call the roll.
  The bill clerk called the roll.
  Mr. CORNYN. The following Senators are necessarily absent: the 
Senator from Texas (Mr. Cruz), the Senator from Kentucky (Mr. Paul), 
and the Senator from Kansas (Mr. Roberts).
  Further, if present and voting, the Senator from Kansas (Mr. Roberts) 
would have voted ``yea.''
  Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. 
Menendez) and the Senator from Montana (Mr. Tester) are necessarily 
absent.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there any other Senators in the Chamber 
desiring to vote?
  The result was announced--yeas 49, nays 46, as follows:

                      [Rollcall Vote No. 266 Ex.]

                                YEAS--49

     Alexander
     Barrasso
     Blunt
     Boozman
     Burr
     Capito
     Cassidy
     Cochran
     Collins
     Corker
     Cornyn
     Cotton
     Crapo
     Daines
     Enzi
     Ernst
     Fischer
     Flake
     Gardner
     Graham
     Grassley
     Hatch
     Heller
     Hoeven
     Inhofe
     Isakson
     Johnson
     Kennedy
     Lankford
     Lee
     McCain
     McConnell
     Moran
     Murkowski
     Perdue
     Portman
     Risch
     Rounds
     Rubio
     Sasse
     Scott
     Shelby
     Strange
     Sullivan
     Thune
     Tillis
     Toomey
     Wicker
     Young

                                NAYS--46

     Baldwin
     Bennet
     Blumenthal
     Booker
     Brown
     Cantwell
     Cardin
     Carper
     Casey
     Coons
     Cortez Masto
     Donnelly
     Duckworth
     Durbin
     Feinstein
     Franken
     Gillibrand
     Harris
     Hassan
     Heinrich
     Heitkamp
     Hirono
     Kaine
     King
     Klobuchar
     Leahy
     Manchin
     Markey
     McCaskill
     Merkley
     Murphy
     Murray
     Nelson
     Peters
     Reed
     Sanders
     Schatz
     Schumer
     Shaheen
     Stabenow
     Udall
     Van Hollen
     Warner
     Warren
     Whitehouse
     Wyden

                             NOT VOTING--5

     Cruz
     Menendez
     Paul
     Roberts
     Tester
  The nomination was confirmed.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, the motion to 
reconsider is considered made and laid upon the table and the President 
will be immediately notified of the Senate's action.

                          ____________________



