

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 168 (Wednesday, October 18, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 168 (Wednesday, October 18, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6536-S6537]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 194

  At the request of Mr. Whitehouse, the name of the Senator from 
Illinois (Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 194, a bill to 
amend the Public Health Service Act to establish a public health 
insurance option, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 200

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Mr. Schatz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 200, a bill to prohibit the 
conduct of a first-use nuclear strike absent a declaration of war by 
Congress.


                                 S. 236

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Inhofe) was added as a cosponsor of S. 236, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to reform taxation of alcoholic 
beverages.


                                 S. 569

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 569, a bill to amend 
title 54, United States Code, to provide consistent and reliable 
authority for, and for the funding of, the Land and Water Conservation 
Fund to maximize the effectiveness of the Fund for future generations, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 843

  At the request of Mr. Bennet, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 843, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for the issuance of exempt 
facility bonds for qualified carbon dioxide capture facilities.


                                 S. 980

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the names of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) and the Senator from Indiana (Mr. Donnelly) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 980, a bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
Security Act to provide for payments for certain rural health clinic 
and Federally qualified health center services furnished to hospice 
patients under the Medicare program.


                                S. 1016

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the names of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) and the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Coons) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1016, a bill to amend title XVIII of the 
Social Security Act to expand access to telehealth services, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1050

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from New 
Mexico (Mr. Heinrich) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1050, a bill to 
award a Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the Chinese-American 
Veterans of World War II, in recognition of their dedicated service 
during World War II.
  At the request of Mr. Cochran, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1050, supra.


                                S. 1334

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the names of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) and the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Carper) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1334, a bill to amend title XVIII of the 
Social Security Act to provide for advanced illness care coordination 
services for Medicare beneficiaries, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1361

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the names of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) and the Senator from Indiana (Mr. Donnelly) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1361, a bill to amend title XVIII of the 
Social Security Act to allow physician assistants, nurse practitioners, 
and clinical nurse specialists to supervise cardiac, intensive cardiac, 
and pulmonary rehabilitation programs.


                                S. 1505

  At the request of Mr. Lee, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cruz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1505, a bill to provide that 
silencers be treated the same as firearms accessories.


                                S. 1568

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the names of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) and the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Merkley) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 1568, a bill to require the Secretary of 
the Treasury to mint coins in commemoration of President John F. 
Kennedy.


                                S. 1595

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1595, a bill 
to amend the Hizballah International Financing Prevention Act of 2015 
to impose additional sanctions with respect to Hizballah, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1690

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from 
Maryland (Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1690, a bill to 
amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 to provide greater support to 
students with dependents, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1697

  At the request of Mr. Graham, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Inhofe) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1697, a bill to condition 
assistance to the West Bank and Gaza on steps by the Palestinian 
Authority to end violence and terrorism against Israeli citizens and 
United States Citizens.


                                S. 1829

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the names of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Mr. Franken) and the Senator from Michigan (Mr. Peters) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1829, a bill to amend title V of the Social 
Security Act to extend the Maternal, Infant, and Early Childhood Home 
Visiting Program.


                                S. 1839

  At the request of Mr. King, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1839, a bill to amend 
the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 to extend and expand the market 
access program and

[[Page S6537]]

the foreign market development cooperator program.


                                S. 1842

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1842, a bill to provide for 
wildfire suppression operations, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1859

  At the request of Mr. Gardner, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1859, a bill to 
extend the moratorium on the annual fee on health insurance providers.


                                S. 1960

  At the request of Mrs. McCaskill, the names of the Senator from New 
York (Mrs. Gillibrand) and the Senator from Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 1960, a bill to repeal the amendments 
made to the Controlled Substances Act by the Ensuring Patient Access 
and Effective Drug Enforcement Act of 2016.


                                S. 1970

  At the request of Mr. Bennet, the names of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Cardin) and the Senator from Vermont (Mr. Leahy) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1970, a bill to establish a public health plan.


                              S. RES. 168

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Leahy) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 168, a resolution 
supporting respect for human rights and encouraging inclusive 
governance in Ethiopia.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1119

  At the request of Mr. Sanders, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren), the Senator from Colorado (Mr. Bennet) and 
the Senator from Washington (Ms. Cantwell) were added as cosponsors of 
amendment No. 1119 proposed to H. Con. Res. 71, a concurrent resolution 
establishing the congressional budget for the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2019 through 2027.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1120

  At the request of Mr. Sanders, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 1120 proposed 
to H. Con. Res. 71, a concurrent resolution establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1133

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Leahy) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 1133 intended to 
be proposed to H. Con. Res. 71, a concurrent resolution establishing 
the congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal 
year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1135

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the names of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) were 
added as cosponsors of amendment No. 1135 intended to be proposed to H. 
Con. Res. 71, a concurrent resolution establishing the congressional 
budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 2018 and 
setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 
through 2027.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1138

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 1138 intended to 
be proposed to H. Con. Res. 71, a concurrent resolution establishing 
the congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal 
year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1141

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the names of the Senator from 
Maryland (Mr. Cardin) and the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Menendez) 
were added as cosponsors of amendment No. 1141 intended to be proposed 
to H. Con. Res. 71, a concurrent resolution establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027.

                          ____________________



