

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 149 (Thursday, September 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 149 (Thursday, September 14, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S5770]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I have 7 requests for committees to 
meet during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of 
the Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


           committee on agriculture, nutrition, and forestry

  The Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, September 14, 
2017 at 9:30 a.m., in 216 Hart Senate Office Building, in order to 
conduct a hearing entitled ``Nutrition Programs: Perspectives for the 
2018 Farm Bill.''


            committee on banking, housing, and urban affairs

  The Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, September 14, 2017 
at 10 a.m. to conduct a hearing entitled, ``Examining the Committee on 
Foreign Investment in the United States.''


                          committee on finance

  The Committee on Finance is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Thursday, September 14, 2017, at 10 a.m., in 215 Dirksen 
Senate Office Building, to conduct a hearing entitled ``Individual Tax 
Reform.''


          committee on health, education, labor, and pensions

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is authorized 
to meet, during the session of the Senate, in order to conduct a 
hearing entitled ``Stabilizing Premiums and Helping Individuals in the 
Individual Insurance Market for 2018: Health Care Stakeholders'' on 
Thursday, September 14, 2017, at 10 a.m., in room 430 of the Dirksen 
Senate Office Building.


                       committee on the judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate, on September 14, 2017, at 10 a.m., in SD-226 of 
the Dirksen Senate Office Building, to conduct an executive business 
meeting.


        committee on homeland security and governmental affairs

  The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, 
September 14, 2017, at 10 a.m. in order to conduct a hearing titled 
``FCC's Lifeline Program: A Case Study of Government Waste and 
Mismanagement.''


                       committee on intelligence

  The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet 
during the session of the 115th Congress of the U.S. Senate on 
Thursday, September 14, 2017 from 9:30 a.m., in an offsite secure 
location to hold a closed Member briefing.

                          ____________________



