

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 132 (Thursday, August 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 132 (Thursday, August 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4825-S4826]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




   RECOGNIZING THE NORTHWEST MONTANA CHAPTER OF VIETNAM VETERANS OF 
                                AMERICA

 Mr. TESTER. Mr. President, today I wish to honor the Vietnam 
Veterans of America and the work Mr. John Burgess and the local 
Flathead Valley chapter has done on behalf of his fellow veterans of 
the Vietnam war.
  During that war, more than 2.5 million Americans fought bravely in 
service to their country. While more than 58,000 of those men and women 
gave the ultimate sacrifice, many more endured and are still here with 
us today. However, it has not been an easy road for these veterans. For 
far too long, veterans of the Vietnam war have received neither the 
recognition nor the benefits that they truly deserved.
  As ranking member of the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee, it has 
been my honor to fight for legislation that rectifies this oversight 
like the Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Act that would allow veterans 
who served in the waters offshore during the Vietnam war to also be 
eligible for service-connected disability benefits as a result of agent 
orange exposure. I have also proudly sponsored the Toxic Exposure 
Research Act which increases research into the health conditions of 
descendants of veterans who were exposed to toxins during their 
military service, particularly those exposed to the herbicide agent 
orange during the Vietnam war.
  Honoring these veterans takes more than just legislation; it takes 
dedicated

[[Page S4826]]

people who are committed to telling their stories and honoring those 
who have served. The local northwest Montana chapter of the Vietnam 
Veterans of America in the Flathead Valley, which now has more than 100 
members, has been an important partner working to ensure veterans who 
fought in the Vietnam war are receiving the care, honor, and 
distinction they have earned.
  The Vietnam Veterans of America has become an invaluable part of the 
community, hosting bingo events at the Montana veterans home, providing 
residents and staff with an annual picnic, helping with many 
ceremonies, and working with the Flathead Valley Community College 
Veterans with a scholarship for veteran students.
  John Burgess and the northwest Montana chapter of the Vietnam 
Veterans of America are carrying on this legacy of service September 7 
to 10 with the arrival of the traveling Vietnam veterans memorial wall 
in Kalispell. Through ``Bringing the Wall that Heals,'' countless 
Vietnam veterans and their families with be presented with an 
opportunity to find peace and closure while honoring those we have lost 
in service. This special event helps mark the 35th anniversary of the 
Vietnam Veterans Memorial.
  On Veterans Day of 1996, the Vietnam Veterans Memorial Fund unveiled 
a half-scale replica of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial in Washington, 
DC, designed to travel to communities throughout the United States. 
Since its dedication, the ``Wall That Heals'' has visited more than 400 
cities and towns throughout the Nation, spreading the memorial's 
healing legacy to millions.
  To John, the northwest Montana chapter of the Vietnam Veterans of 
America and all those who dedicated their lives to this country in 
service, on behalf of myself, Montana, and our Nation, I extend my 
greatest thanks for your enduring bravery, service, and self-
sacrifice.

                          ____________________



