

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 194 (Wednesday, November 29, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 194 (Wednesday, November 29, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7489]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. TILIS. Mr. President, I have 7 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


                      Committee on Armed Services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, November 29, 2017, to conduct a 
hearing on nominations.


           Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, November 29, 
2017, at 10:30 a.m. to conduct a hearing on the nominations of Barry 
Lee Myers, of Pennsylvania, to be Under Secretary of Commerce for 
Oceans and Atmosphere.


               Committee on Environment and Public Works

  The Committee on Environment and Public Works is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, November 29, 2017, at 10 
a.m. in room SD-406 to conduct a hearing on 19 General Services 
Administration resolutions and the following nominations: Kathleen 
Hartnett White, of Texas, to be a Member of the Council on 
Environmental Quality and Andrew Wheeler, of Virginia, to be Deputy 
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.


          Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, November 29, 
2017, at 9:30 a.m. in room SD-430 to conduct a hearing on the 
nominations of Alex Michael Azar II, of Indiana, to be Secretary of 
Health and Human Services.


                       Committee on the Judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, November 29, 2017, at 10 a.m., in 
room SD-226, to conduct a hearing on the following nominations: Stuart 
Kyle Duncan, of Louisiana, to be United States Circuit Judge for the 
Fifth Circuit, David Ryan Stras, of Minnesota, to be United States 
Circuit Judge for the Eighth Circuit, Fernando Rodriguez, Jr., to be 
United States District Judge for the Southern District of Texas, and 
Andrei Iancu, of California, to be Under Secretary of Commerce for 
Intellectual Property and Director of the United States Patent and 
Trademark Office.


                     Committee on Veterans' Affairs

  The Committee on Veterans' Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, November 29, 2017, at 2:30 p.m., in 
room SR-418 to conduct a hearing on the bill entitled ``Caring for Our 
Veterans Act of 2017''.


                    Select Committee on Intelligence

  The Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, November 29, 2017, at 3 p.m., in 
room S-127 to hold a closed hearing.

                          ____________________



