

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 199 (Wednesday, December 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 199 (Wednesday, December 6, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9668]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           HONORING TIM McVAY

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Georgia (Mr. David Scott) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise this morning to pay 
honor to an extraordinary, great American.
  Mr. Tim McVay, vice president and general manager of WSB Television, 
is retiring after 39 years as a top executive with Cox Media Group 
television stations across this Nation, from Dayton, Ohio, to 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; to San Francisco, California; and to Atlanta, 
Georgia, earning Tim McVay the highest awards in television, including 
the Edward R. Murrow Award, the Peabody Award, the Emmy Award, the 
Alfred I. duPont Award, and induction into the prestigious Silver 
Circle of the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences.
  Tim McVay is a great American, deeply rooted in his love of country 
and his love of family: his loving wife, Cindy, and his sons, Sean and 
Ryan.
  His son, Sean, Mr. Speaker, is head coach of the Los Angeles Rams. He 
is the youngest head coach in the history of the NFL.
  His father, the legendary John McVay, was the head of football 
operations for the San Francisco 49ers and won five Super Bowls.
  What a great all-American story. But there is more, Mr. Speaker, that 
I must tell you about Tim McVay. Tim McVay's life has been like that 
shining light on the hill, reaching out, helping other people, loving 
his neighbor as himself, that most sacred of commandments, whether it 
is helping the hundreds of television journalists, young people in 
their careers who are now leading in the television industry, or 
helping me and hundreds of our companies and employers, corporations in 
Georgia with our annual jobs fair where we have gotten over 12,000 jobs 
for Georgians; or our health fair that we have every year where we give 
breast cancer exams and prostate exams to those individuals who, for 
reasons of income, don't have insurance, saving lives; and our 
veterans, the work that Tim McVay has helped us with our veterans.
  Mr. Speaker, let me tell you, it was Tim McVay, under his leadership 
at WSB Television in Atlanta, Georgia, and his WSB reporter Aaron 
Diamant who exposed to this Nation the tragically high suicide rates of 
our veterans and then got behind me and my Republican fellow Member of 
Congress, Larry Bucshon of Indiana, and helped us pass legislation to 
get more psychiatrists into the VA.
  God bless Tim McVay, and God bless the United States of America, land 
of the free and the home of the brave.

                          ____________________



