

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 173 (Thursday, October 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 173 (Thursday, October 26, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6846]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                 RECOGNIZING ALLEN CHORMAN & SON, INC.

 Mr. COONS. Madam President, it is with great pleasure that I 
rise, along with Senator Tom Carper of Delaware and Representative Lisa 
Blunt Rochester of Delaware, to recognize Allen Chorman & Son, Inc., a 
longstanding Delaware business that has provided exemplary service to 
the State and its surrounding areas for 30 years.
  Since 1987, Allen Chorman & Son, Inc., has played a vital role in the 
success of one of Delaware's key economic resources: farming. With the 
largest aerial spraying business in the State, Allen Chorman & Son, 
Inc., has assisted farmers in increasing crop efficiency via pesticide 
spraying and fertilizer spraying--sometimes in instances when ground 
conditions are not conducive to tractor services. Allen Chorman & Son, 
Inc., also provides critical mosquito spraying for both rural and urban 
areas. We are honored to extend our sincere thanks for their commitment 
and unyielding efforts to support one of our Nation's most valuable 
industries: agriculture.
  In addition to aiding farmers within Delaware and the surrounding 
areas with critical crop services, Allen Chorman & Son, Inc., has 
assisted in environmental preservation efforts, monitoring artificial 
reefs off of the Delaware and Maryland coasts, as well as spraying 
invasive plants that, if uncontrolled, can choke area wetlands. We are 
truly honored to extend our appreciation for everything the business 
has accomplished.
  We wholeheartedly congratulate the many staff members past and 
present of Allen Chorman & Son, Inc., on 30 years of service to the 
State of Delaware and surrounding areas. Your quality of service and 
continued care for our farms and environment set an exemplary standard 
of service for many others to follow. We wish you continued growth and 
success.

                          ____________________



