

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 186 (Tuesday, November 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 186 (Tuesday, November 14, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H9188-H9189]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               WELCOMING REVEREND DR. ANTHONY K.R. GIBSON

  The SPEAKER. Without objection, the gentleman from Indiana (Mr. 
Carson) is recognized for 1 minute.
  There was no objection.
  Mr. CARSON of Indiana. Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to welcome my 
constituent as our guest chaplain today,

[[Page H9189]]

Reverend Dr. Anthony Gibson. He is a lifelong Hoosier and a bright 
young leader from Indiana's faith community.
  Reverend Gibson is the presiding elder of the Indiana Conference of 
the African Methodist Episcopal Zion Church and the former pastor of 
the Saint Mark Temple AME Zion Church in Indianapolis, Indiana. The AME 
Zion Church is a 221-year-old denomination founded in New York City in 
1796 that spread across the country, including the Indiana church that 
was established in 1907.
  Dr. Gibson was born in Gary, Indiana. He later attended Indiana 
University in Bloomington, where he completed a double major in 
journalism and African-American Studies. He furthered his education at 
the Presbyterian Theological Seminary in Louisville, Kentucky, with a 
master's of divinity degree, and he earned his doctorate of philosophy 
in theology from Trinity Bible College and Seminary. He most recently 
graduated from Strayer University with a master's degree in human 
resource management, with a specialization in organizational 
development.
  Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank Reverend Dr. Gibson for his 
willingness to travel to Washington, D.C., to share his spiritual love 
and guidance with the House today.
  I pray, Mr. Speaker, that his words warm the hearts of my colleagues 
as we work together to carry out the people's business with compassion 
and courage.

                          ____________________



