

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 177 (Wednesday, November 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 177 (Wednesday, November 1, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6966]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               RECOGNIZING COLLEGE WOOD ELEMENTARY SCHOOL

  Mr. DONNELLY. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize College Wood 
Elementary School of Carmel, IN, for being named a 2017 National Blue 
Ribbon School by the U.S. Department of Education.
  Established in 1982, the National Blue Ribbon Schools Program 
recognizes schools that have demonstrated a vision of educational 
excellence for all students, regardless of their social or economic 
background. Since its inception, this program has allowed schools in 
every State to gain recognition for educational accomplishments, 
particularly in closing the achievement gaps among students.
  College Wood's mission is to provide opportunities for all students 
to realize their potential. College Wood students have consistently 
ranked among the top 10 percent in annual standardized testing. By 
encouraging every student to strive for excellence, explore 
opportunities, and realize their full potential, College Wood students 
are equipped to succeed and graduate.
  College Wood strives to provide a quality, well-rounded education and 
teach students the traits of successful leaders and communicators. To 
that end, the school includes social and emotional learning in its 
curriculum. Social Thinking and Superflex lessons instill social 
awareness, emotional management skills, and perspective-enhancing 
experiences.
  The school also seeks to help teach students about the importance of 
service and helping others. Through several philanthropic endeavors, 
College Wood students, parents, and staff work closely together to give 
back to the community. Several donation drives throughout the year lead 
up to the school's biggest annual event to benefit the Leukemia and 
Lymphoma Society.
  I am proud to recognize College Wood Elementary School principal 
Kathryn Olssen, the entire staff, the student body, and their families. 
The effort, dedication, and value you put into education has led not 
only to this prestigious recognition, but will benefit you and the 
Carmel community well into the future.
  On behalf of the citizens of Indiana, I congratulate College Wood 
Elementary School, and I wish the students and staff continued success 
in the future.

                          ____________________



