

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 200 (Thursday, December 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 200 (Thursday, December 7, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7910]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       NOMINATION OF STEVE GRASZ

  Mr. SASSE. Mr. President, today the Judiciary Committee had the 
opportunity to advance the nomination of Steve Grasz, one of the 
foremost appellate attorneys in the State of Nebraska, and I would like 
to make one brief comment about that.
  The Judiciary Committee has now heard and soon the full Senate will 
be hearing about the impeccable credentials of Mr. Grasz. Steve has 
served with distinction as Nebraska's chief deputy attorney general for 
nearly a dozen years. During that time, he defended our State's laws 
with integrity, humility, and decency. Whether he was litigating before 
the Eighth Circuit, before the Nebraska Supreme Court, or before the 
U.S. Supreme Court, Steve's character and professionalism earned the 
respect of Republicans and Democrats alike.
  Members of the committee became familiar with Steve and in particular 
his recommendation from President Obama's U.S. attorney for Nebraska, 
Deborah Gilg. She wrote to the committee: ``Steve has always enjoyed a 
reputation for honesty, impeccable integrity, and dedication to the 
rule of law.'' She continued by noting that Steve ``possesses an even 
temperament well-suited for the bench and always acts with respect to 
all that interact with him.''
  Steve has earned the support of Republicans and Democrats back in 
Nebraska, and I hope that when his nomination comes to the floor of the 
Senate, we will take to heart all of the support he has across the 
political spectrum and from well-respected lawyers across our State.
  Thank you for the time, Mr. President.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from New Jersey.

                          ____________________



