

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 143 (Wednesday, September 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 143 (Wednesday, September 6, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S5007-S5016]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           TEXT OF AMENDMENTS

  SA 789. Mr. CORNYN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle B of title I, add the following:

     SEC. ___. UPGRADE OF M113 VEHICLES.

       No amounts authorized to be appropriated by this Act or 
     otherwise made available for the Department of Defense for 
     fiscal year 2018 may be obligated or expended to upgrade Army 
     M113 vehicles until the Secretary of the Army submits to the 
     congressional defense committees a report setting forth the 
     strategy of the Army for the upgrade of such vehicles. The 
     report shall include the following:
       (1) A detailed strategy for upgrading and fielding M113 
     vehicles.
       (2) An analysis of the manner in which the Army plans to 
     address M113 vehicle survivability and maneuverability 
     concerns.
       (3) An analysis of the historical costs associated with 
     upgrading M113 vehicles, and a validation of current cost 
     estimates for upgrading such vehicles.
       (4) A comparison of total procurement and life cycle costs 
     of adding an echelon above brigade (EAB) requirement to the 
     Army Multi-Purpose Vehicle (AMPV) with total procurement and 
     life cycle costs of upgrading legacy M113 vehicles.
       (5) An analysis of the possibility of further accelerating 
     Army Multi-Purpose Vehicle production or modifying the 
     current fielding strategy for the Army Multi-Purpose Vehicle 
     to meet near-term echelon above brigade requirements.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 790. Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself, Mrs. Ernst, Mr. Durbin, and Mr. 
Grassley) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by her to the 
bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for 
military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

     SEC. ___. STEM(MM) JOBS ACTION PLAN.

       (a) Assessments and Plan of Action.--The Secretary of 
     Defense, in conjunction with the Secretary of each military 
     department, shall --
       (1) perform an assessment of the STEM(MM) workforce for 
     organizations within the Department of Defense, including the 
     numbers and types of positions and the expectations for 
     losses due to retirements and voluntary departures;
       (2) identify the types and quantities of STEM(MM) jobs 
     needed to support future mission work;
       (3) determine the shortfall between lost STEM(MM) personnel 
     and future requirements;
       (4) analyze and explain the appropriateness and impact of 
     using reimbursable and working capital fund dollars for new 
     STEM(MM) hires;
       (5) identify a plan of action to address the STEM(MM) jobs 
     gap, including hiring strategies and timelines for 
     replacement of STEM(MM) employees; and
       (6) submit to Congress, not later than December 31, 2018, a 
     report specifying such plan of action.
       (b) STEM(MM) Defined.--In this section, the term 
     ``STEM(MM)'' refers to science, technology, engineering, 
     mathematics, maintenance, and manufacturing.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 791. Ms. DUCKWORTH submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
by her to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal 
year 2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for 
military construction, and for defense activities of the Department of 
Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, 
and for other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of subtitle B of title VIII, add the following:

     SEC. ___. GOVERNMENT MICRO-PURCHASE THRESHOLD MATTERS.

       (a) Increase in Threshold.--Section 1902(a)(1) of title 41, 
     United States Code, is amended by striking ``$3,000'' and 
     inserting ``$10,000''.
       (b) Convenience Checks.--A convenience check may not be 
     used for an amount in excess of one half of the micro-
     purchase threshold under section 1902(a) of title 41, United 
     States Code, or a lower amount set by the head of the agency. 
     Use of convenience checks shall comply with controls 
     prescribed in Office of Management and Budget Circular A-123, 
     Appendix B.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 792. Mr. JOHNSON (for himself, Mrs. Ernst, Mr. Grassley, and Mr. 
Paul) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him to the bill 
H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for 
military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title X, add the following:

     SEC. ___. REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FULL FINANCIAL 
                   STATEMENTS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

       Not later than six months after the date of the enactment 
     of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
     Congress a report setting forth the following:
       (1) A description of the work undertaken and planned to be 
     undertaken by the Department of Defense, and the military 
     departments, Defense Agencies, and other organizations and 
     elements of the Department, to test and verify transaction 
     data pertinent to obtaining an unqualified audit of their 
     financial statements, including from feeder systems.
       (2) A projected timeline of the Department in connection 
     with the audit of the full financial statements of the 
     Department, to be submitted to Congress annually not later 
     than six months after the submittal to Congress of the budget 
     of the President for a fiscal year, including the following:
       (A) The date on which the Department projects the beginning 
     of an audit of the full financial statements of the 
     Department, and the military departments, Defense Agencies, 
     and other organizations and elements of the Department, for a 
     fiscal year.
       (B) The date on which the Department projects the 
     completions of audits of the full financial statements of the 
     Department, and the military departments, Defense Agencies, 
     and other organizations and elements of the Department, for a 
     fiscal year.

[[Page S5008]]

       (C) Beginning with fiscal year 2019, the dates on which the 
     Department expects to obtain an unqualified audit opinion on 
     the full financial statements of the Department, the military 
     departments, the Defense Agencies, and other organizations 
     and elements of the Department for a fiscal year.
       (D) The anticipated total cost of future audits as 
     described in subparagraphs (A) through (C).
       (3) The anticipated annual costs of maintaining an 
     unqualified audit opinion on the full financial statements of 
     the Department, the military departments, the Defense 
     Agencies, and other organizations and elements of the 
     Department for a fiscal year after an unqualified audit 
     opinion on such full financial statements for a fiscal year 
     is first obtained.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 793. Mr. YOUNG submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle F of title X, add the following:

     SEC. __. REPORT ON IMPLEMENTATION OF COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF 
                   THE UNITED STATES RECOMMENDATIONS FOR THE 
                   DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE, DEPARTMENT OF STATE, AND 
                   UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL 
                   DEVELOPMENT.

       (a) Report.--
       (1) In general.--Concerned that, by avoiding full 
     implementation of recommendations made by the Comptroller 
     General of the United States, agencies are missing 
     opportunities to operate more efficiently and effectively, 
     not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to the 
     appropriate committees of Congress a report summarizing the 
     assessment of the Comptroller General of each open 
     recommendation made to an agency specified in paragraph (2) 
     that has not been fully implemented.
       (2) Agencies.--The agencies referred to in this paragraph 
     are as follows:
       (A) The Department of Defense.
       (B) The Department of State.
       (C) The United States Agency for International Development.
       (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall 
     include a detailed description of the following:
       (1) The initial response of the agency concerned to each 
     recommendation described in subsection (a)(1) at the time 
     such recommendation was made.
       (2) The actions taken by the agency concerned to implement 
     such recommendation.
       (3) The rationale provided by the agency concerned for not 
     implementing, or partially implementing, such recommendation.
       (c) Form.--Any information included in a report under this 
     section shall, to the extent practicable, be submitted in 
     unclassified form, but may be set forth in a classified 
     annex.
       (d) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' 
     means--
       (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
     Senate; and
       (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
     House of Representatives.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 794. Ms. WARREN (for herself and Mr. Tillis) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by her to the bill H.R. 2810, to 
authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and for 
defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

     SEC. __. REPORT ON SIGNIFICANT SECURITY RISKS OF THE NATIONAL 
                   ELECTRIC GRID.

       (a) Report Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, 
     in coordination with the Director of National Intelligence 
     and the Secretary of Energy, submit to the congressional 
     defense committees a report setting forth the following:
       (1) Identification of significant security risks to defense 
     critical electric infrastructure posed by significant 
     malicious cyber-enabled activities.
       (2) An assessment of the potential effect of the security 
     risks identified pursuant to paragraph (1) on the readiness 
     of the Armed Forces.
       (3) An assessment of the strategic benefits derived from, 
     and the challenges associated with, isolating military 
     infrastructure from the national electric grid and the use of 
     microgrids by the Armed Forces.
       (4) Recommendations on actions to be taken--
       (A) to eliminate or mitigate the security risks identified 
     pursuant to paragraph (1); and
       (B) to address the effect of those security risks on the 
     readiness of the Armed Forces identified pursuant to 
     paragraph (2).
       (b) Form of Report.--The report required by subsection (a) 
     shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
     classified annex.
       (c) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) The term ``defense critical electric infrastructure''--
       (A) has the meaning given such term in section 215A(a) of 
     the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 824o-1(a)); and
       (B) shall include any electric infrastructure located in 
     any of the 48 contiguous States or the District of Columbia 
     that serves a facility--
       (i) designated by the Secretary of Defense as--

       (I) critical to the defense of the United States; and
       (II) vulnerable to a disruption of the supply of electric 
     energy provided to such facility by an external provider; and

       (ii) that is not owned or operated by the owner or operator 
     of such facility.
       (2) The term ``security risk'' shall have such meaning as 
     the Secretary of Defense shall determine, in coordination 
     with the Director of National Intelligence and the Secretary 
     of Energy, for purposes of the report required by subsection 
     (a).
       (3) The term ``significant malicious cyber-enabled 
     activities'' include--
       (A) significant efforts--
       (i) to deny access to or degrade, disrupt, or destroy an 
     information and communications technology system or network; 
     or
       (ii) to exfiltrate, degrade, corrupt, destroy, or release 
     information from such a system or network without 
     authorization for purposes of--

       (I) conducting influence operations; or
       (II) causing a significant misappropriation of funds, 
     economic resources, trade secrets, personal identifications, 
     or financial information for commercial or competitive 
     advantage or private financial gain;

       (B) significant destructive malware attacks; and
       (C) significant denial of service activities.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 795. Mr. CRAPO (for himself and Mr. Risch) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize 
appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the 
Department of Defense, for military construction, and for defense 
activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel 
strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes; which was 
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle C of title XXVIII, add the 
     following:

     SEC. 2826. LAND CONVEYANCE, MOUNTAIN HOME AIR FORCE BASE, 
                   IDAHO.

       (a) Conveyance Authorized.--The Secretary of the Air Force 
     may convey to the City of Mountain Home, Idaho (in this 
     section referred to as the ``City''), all right, title, and 
     interest of the United States in and to a parcel of real 
     property, including improvements thereon, consisting of 
     approximately 4.25 miles of railroad spur located near 
     Mountain Home Air Force Base, Idaho, as further described in 
     subsection (c), for the purpose of economic development.
       (b) Consideration.--
       (1) Consideration required.--As consideration for the land 
     conveyed under subsection (a), the City shall pay to the 
     Secretary an amount equal to the fair market value of the 
     land, as determined by an appraisal approved by the 
     Secretary. The City shall provide an amount that is 
     acceptable to the Secretary, whether by cash payment, in-kind 
     consideration as described under paragraph (2), or a 
     combination thereof.
       (2) In-kind consideration.--In-kind consideration provided 
     by the City under paragraph (1) may include the acquisition, 
     construction, provision, improvement, maintenance, repair, or 
     restoration (including environmental restoration), or 
     combination thereof, of any facility or infrastructure under 
     the jurisdiction of the Secretary.
       (3) Treatment of consideration received.--Consideration in 
     the form of cash payment received by the Secretary under 
     paragraph (1) shall be deposited in the separate fund in the 
     Treasury described in section 572(a)(1) of title 40, United 
     States Code.
       (c) Map and Legal Description.--
       (1) Finalizing legal descriptions.--As soon as practicable 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
     the Air Force shall finalize a map and the legal description 
     of the property to be conveyed under subsection (a).
       (2) Minor errors.--The Secretary of the Air Force may 
     correct any minor errors in the map or the legal description.
       (3) Availability.--The map and legal description shall be 
     on file and available for public inspection.
       (d) Payment of Costs of Conveyance.--
       (1) Payment required.--The Secretary may require the City 
     to cover all costs (except costs for environmental 
     remediation of the property) to be incurred by the Secretary, 
     or to reimburse the Secretary for costs incurred by the 
     Secretary, to carry out the conveyance under this section, 
     including survey costs, costs for environmental 
     documentation, and any other administrative costs related to 
     the conveyance. If amounts are collected from the City in 
     advance of the Secretary incurring the actual costs, and the 
     amount collected exceeds the costs actually

[[Page S5009]]

     incurred by the Secretary to carry out the conveyance, the 
     Secretary shall refund the excess amount to the City.
       (2) Treatment of amounts received.--Amounts received under 
     paragraph (1) as reimbursement for costs incurred by the 
     Secretary to carry out the conveyance under subsection (a) 
     shall be credited to the fund or account that was used to 
     cover the costs incurred by the Secretary in carrying out the 
     conveyance, or to an appropriate fund or account currently 
     available to the Secretary for the purposes for which the 
     costs were paid. Amounts so credited shall be merged with 
     amounts in such fund or account and shall be available for 
     the same purposes, and subject to the same conditions and 
     limitations, as amounts in such fund or account.
       (e) Use Reservation.--The Secretary may reserve a right to 
     temporarily use, for urgent reasons of national defense and 
     at no cost to the United States, all or a portion of the 
     railroad spur conveyed under subsection (a).
       (f) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may 
     require such additional terms and conditions in connection 
     with the conveyance under subsection (a) as the Secretary 
     considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United 
     States.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 796. Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Mr. Blumenthal, and Mr. Warner) 
submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 
2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military 
activities of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and 
for defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe 
military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other 
purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

     SEC. ___. REPORT ON AIRPORTS USED BY MAHAN AIR.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter through 
     2020, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation 
     with the Secretary of Transportation, the Secretary of State, 
     the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Director of National 
     Intelligence, shall submit to Congress a report that 
     includes--
       (1) a list of all airports at which aircraft owned or 
     controlled by Mahan Air have landed during the 2 years 
     preceding the submission of the report; and
       (2) for each such airport--
       (A) an assessment of whether aircraft owned or controlled 
     by Mahan Air continue to conduct operations at that airport;
       (B) an assessment of whether any of the landings of 
     aircraft owned or controlled by Mahan Air were necessitated 
     by an emergency situation;
       (C) a determination regarding whether additional security 
     measures should be imposed on flights to the United States 
     that originate from that airport; and
       (D) an explanation of the rationale for that determination.
       (b) Form of Report.--Each report required by subsection (a) 
     shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
     classified annex.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 797. Mr. PETERS (for himself, Mr. Sullivan, Ms. Cantwell, and Mr. 
Wicker) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him to the 
bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for 
military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle B of title VII, add the following:

     SEC. __. ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS SYSTEM FOR THE COAST 
                   GUARD.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of the department in which 
     the Coast Guard operating is authorized to procure an 
     electronic health records system for the Coast Guard that is 
     the same as the electronic health records system of the 
     Department of Defense.
       (b) Competition in Contracting.--Procurement of an 
     electronic health records system under this section shall be 
     exempt from the competition requirements of section 2304 of 
     title 10, United States Code.
       (c) Authorized Procurement Actions.--The authority of the 
     Secretary to procure an action to procure an electronic 
     health records system under this section includes the 
     following:
       (1) Authority for task orders under the Department of 
     Defense electronic health records contract.
       (2) Authority for a sole source contract award.
       (3) Authority for agreements made pursuant to sections 1535 
     and 1536 of title 31, United States Code (commonly known as 
     the ``Economy Act'').
       (4) Any other procurement authority the Secretary considers 
     appropriate.
       (d) Support Services.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary may procure, in addition to 
     the electronic health records system, such support services 
     for the system as the Secretary considers appropriate to 
     ensure the electronic health records system is fully 
     interoperable and integrated with the electronic health 
     records system of the Department of Defense.
       (2) Support service.--Support services procurable pursuant 
     to this subsection may include services for the following:
       (A) System integration support.
       (B) Hosting support.
       (C) Training, testing, technical, and data migration 
     support.
       (D) Hardware.
       (E) Any other support the Secretary considers appropriate.
       (3) Manner of procurement.--The Secretary may procure 
     support services pursuant to this subsection using the 
     authorities provided in subsection (c).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 798. Ms. HIRONO submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
her to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle E of title XII, add the following:

     SEC. ___. ASSESSMENT OF THE EXPANDING GLOBAL INFLUENCE OF 
                   CHINA AND ITS IMPACT ON THE NATIONAL SECURITY 
                   INTERESTS OF THE UNITED STATES.

       (a) Assessment.--The Secretary of Defense shall enter into 
     a contract or other agreement with an appropriate entity 
     independent of the Department of Defense to conduct an 
     assessment of the foreign military and non-military influence 
     of the People's Republic of China which could affect the 
     regional and global national security and defense interests 
     of the United States.
       (b) Elements.--The assessment required by subsection (a) 
     shall include an evaluation of the following:
       (1) The expansion by China of military and non-military 
     means of influence in the Indo-Asia-Pacific region and 
     globally, including, infrastructure investments, influence 
     campaigns, loans, access to military equipment, military 
     training, tourism, media, and access to foreign ports and 
     military bases, and whether such means of influence could 
     affect United States national security or defense interests, 
     including operational access.
       (2) The implications, if any, of such means of influence 
     for the military force posture, access, training, and 
     logistics of the United States and China.
       (3) The United States policy and strategy for mitigating 
     any harmful effects resulting from such means of influence.
       (4) The resources required to implement the policy and 
     strategy, and the plan to address and mitigate any gaps in 
     capabilities or resources necessary for the implementation of 
     the policy and strategy.
       (5) Measures to bolster the roles of allies, partners, and 
     other countries to implement the policy and strategy.
       (6) Any other matters the Secretary considers appropriate.
       (c) Report.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees a report on the assessment 
     required pursuant to subsection (a).
       (2) Form.--The report required shall be submitted 
     unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 799. Ms. HIRONO submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
her to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle E of title XII, add the following:

     SEC. ___. PLAN TO ENHANCE THE EXTENDED DETERRENCE AND 
                   ASSURANCE CAPABILITIES OF THE UNITED STATES IN 
                   THE ASIA-PACIFIC REGION.

       (a) Finding.--Congress recognizes that North Korea's first 
     successful test of an intercontinental ballistic missile 
     (ICBM) constitutes a grave and imminent threat to United 
     States security and to the security of United States allies 
     and partners in the Asia-Pacific region.
       (b) Plan.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in 
     consultation with the Commander of the United States Pacific 
     Command and the Commander of the United States Strategic 
     Command, shall submit to the congressional defense committees 
     a plan to enhance the extended deterrence and assurance 
     capabilities of the United States in the Asia-Pacific region.
       (c) Matters To Be Included.--The plan shall include 
     consideration of actions that will enhance United States 
     security by strengthening deterrence of North Korean 
     aggression and providing increased assurance to United States 
     allies in the Asia-Pacific region, including the following:

[[Page S5010]]

       (1) Increased visible presence of key United States 
     military assets, such as missile defenses, long-range strike 
     assets, and intermediate-range strike assets, to the region 
     that do not violate existing treaties.
       (2) Increased military cooperation, exercises, and 
     integration of defenses with allies in the region.
       (3) Increased foreign military sales to allies in the 
     region.
       (4) Planning for, exercising, or deploying dual-capable 
     aircraft to the region.
       (5) Any necessary modifications to the United States 
     nuclear force posture.
       (6) Such other actions the Secretary considers appropriate 
     to strengthen extended deterrence and assurance in the 
     region.
       (d) Form.--The plan shall be submitted in unclassified 
     form, but may contain a classified annex.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 800. Mr. BOOZMAN (for himself and Mr. Cotton) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 2810, to 
authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and for 
defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle G of title X, add the following:

     SEC. ___. RECOGNITION OF THE AVIATION CADET MUSEUM IN EUREKA 
                   SPRINGS, ARKANSAS, AS THE NATIONAL AVIATION 
                   CADET MUSEUM OF THE UNITED STATES.

       (a) Findings.--The Senate makes the following findings:
       (1) The Aviation Cadet Museum was founded in 1994 by former 
     aviation cadet and Air Force First Lieutenant Errol Severe.
       (2) From 1917 until 1965, the flying cadet and succeeding 
     aviation cadet programs served as the primary production 
     source for nearly 500,000 joint service pilots, navigators, 
     and bombardiers.
       (3) The bravery, courage, dedication, and heroism of 
     aviators and supporting ground crews from the Army Air Corps 
     and the Army Air Forces were critical factors in defeating 
     the enemies of the United States during World War I and World 
     War II.
       (4) The Aviation Cadet Museum in Eureka Springs, Arkansas, 
     is the only museum in the United States that exists 
     exclusively to preserve and promote an understanding of the 
     role of aviation cadets in the 20th century.
       (5) The Aviation Cadet Museum is dedicated to--
       (A) celebrating the spirit of the United States; and
       (B) recognizing the teamwork, collaboration, patriotism, 
     and courage of the men who trained for and fought in, as well 
     as those individuals on the home front who mobilized and 
     supported, the national aviation effort.
       (b) Recognition.--The Senate recognizes the Aviation Cadet 
     Museum in Eureka Springs, Arkansas, as the national aviation 
     cadet museum of the United States.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 801. Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself, Mrs. Capito, Ms. Baldwin, Ms. 
Klobuchar, Ms. Collins, Mr. King, Mr. Moran, and Mr. Blumenthal) 
submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by her to the bill H.R. 
2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military 
activities of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and 
for defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe 
military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other 
purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle G of title X, add the following:

     SEC. ___. PROGRAM TO DESIGNATE AND SUPPORT MANUFACTURING 
                   COMMUNITIES.

       (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Made 
     in America Manufacturing Communities Act of 2017''.
       (b) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) Manufacturing community support program.--The term 
     ``Manufacturing Community Support Program'' means the program 
     established under section 3(a).
       (2) Participating agency.--The term ``participating 
     agency'' means a Federal agency that elects to participate in 
     the Manufacturing Community Support Program.
       (3) Participating program.--The term ``participating 
     program'' means a program identified by a participating 
     agency under section 3(c)(1)(C).
       (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
     of Commerce.
       (c) Program Authorized.--The Secretary shall establish a 
     program to improve the competitiveness of United States 
     manufacturing--
       (1) by designating consortiums as manufacturing communities 
     under subsection (d); and
       (2) by supporting manufacturing communities, as so 
     designated, under subsection (e).
       (d) Designation of Manufacturing Communities.--
       (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (7), for 
     purposes of the Manufacturing Community Support Program, the 
     Secretary shall designate eligible consortiums as 
     manufacturing communities through a competitive process.
       (2) Eligible consortiums.--
       (A) In general.--An eligible consortium is a consortium 
     that--
       (i) represents a region defined by the consortium in 
     accordance with subparagraph (B);
       (ii) includes at least one--

       (I) institution of higher education;
       (II) private sector entity; or
       (III) government entity;

       (iii) may include one or more--

       (I) private sector partners;
       (II) institutions of higher education;
       (III) government entities;
       (IV) economic development and other community and labor 
     groups;
       (V) financial institutions; or
       (VI) utilities; and

       (iv) has, as a lead applicant--

       (I) a district organization (as defined in section 300.3 of 
     title 13, Code of Federal Regulations, or successor 
     regulation);
       (II) an Indian tribe (as defined in section 4 of the Indian 
     Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 
     450b)) or a consortium of Indian tribes;
       (III) a State or a political subdivision of a State, 
     including a special purpose unit of a State or local 
     government engaged in economic or infrastructure development 
     activities, or a consortium of political subdivisions;
       (IV) an institution of higher education or a consortium of 
     institutions of higher education; or
       (V) a public or private nonprofit organization or 
     association that has an application that is supported by a 
     State, a political subdivision of a State, or a native 
     community.

       (B) Regions.--Subject to approval by the Secretary, a 
     consortium may define the region that it represents if the 
     region--
       (i) is large enough to contain critical elements of the key 
     technologies or supply chain prioritized by the consortium; 
     and
       (ii) is small enough to enable close collaboration among 
     members of the consortium.
       (3) Duration.--Each designation under paragraph (1) shall 
     be for a period of two years.
       (4) Renewal.--
       (A) In general.--Upon receipt of an application submitted 
     under subparagraph (B), the Secretary may renew a designation 
     made under paragraph (1) for up to two additional two-year 
     periods. Any designation as a manufacturing community or 
     renewal of such designation that is in effect before the date 
     of the enactment of this Act shall count toward the limit set 
     forth in this subparagraph.
       (B) Application for renewal.--An eligible consortium 
     seeking a renewal under subparagraph (A) shall submit an 
     application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, 
     and containing such information as the Secretary may require.
       (C) Modifications authorized.--The Secretary may renew a 
     designation under subparagraph (A) for an eligible consortium 
     that--
       (i) has changed its composition, either by adding or 
     removing members; or
       (ii) as part of its application under subparagraph (B), 
     submits a revision to the plan submitted under paragraph 
     (5)(B)(iv) or the strategy submitted under paragraph 
     (5)(B)(v).
       (D) Evaluation for renewal.--In determining whether to 
     renew a designation of an eligible consortium under paragraph 
     (1), the Secretary shall assess the eligible consortium based 
     upon--
       (i) the performance of the consortium against the terms of 
     the consortium's most recent designation under paragraph (1) 
     and any post-designation awards the consortium may have 
     received;
       (ii) the progress the consortium has made with respect to 
     project-specific metrics the consortium proposed in the 
     consortium's application for the most recent designation 
     under paragraph (1), particularly with respect to those 
     metrics that were designed to help communities track their 
     own progress;
       (iii) whether any changes to the composition of the 
     eligible consortium or revisions to the plan or strategy 
     described in subparagraph (C)(ii) would improve the 
     competitiveness of United States manufacturing; and
       (iv) such other criteria as the Secretary considers 
     appropriate.
       (5) Application for designation.--
       (A) In general.--An eligible consortium seeking a 
     designation under paragraph (1) shall submit an application 
     to the Secretary at such time and in such manner as the 
     Secretary may require.
       (B) Contents.--Each application submitted to the Secretary 
     under subparagraph (A) include--
       (i) a description of the regional boundaries of the 
     consortium;
       (ii) a description of the manufacturing concentration of 
     the consortium, including an assessment of how the 
     manufacturing concentration of the consortium competitively 
     ranks nationally according to measures relating to 
     employment, sales, location quotients for an industry's level 
     of concentration, or such other measures as the Secretary 
     considers appropriate;
       (iii) an integrated assessment of the local industrial 
     ecosystem of the region of the consortium, which may include 
     assessment of workforce and training, such as that involving 
     women and underrepresented minorities, supplier network, 
     research and innovation, infrastructure or site development,

[[Page S5011]]

     trade and international investment, operational improvements, 
     and capital access components needed for manufacturing 
     activities in such region;
       (iv) an evidence-based plan for developing components of 
     such ecosystem (selected by the consortium)--

       (I) by making specific investments to address gaps in such 
     ecosystem; and
       (II) by making the manufacturing of the region of the 
     consortium uniquely competitive;

       (v) a description of the investments the consortium 
     proposes and the implementation strategy the consortium 
     intends to use to address gaps in such ecosystem;
       (vi) a description of the outcome-based metrics, 
     benchmarks, and milestones that the consortium will track and 
     the evaluation methods the consortium will use while 
     designated as a manufacturing community to gauge performance 
     of the strategy of the consortium to improve the 
     manufacturing in the region of the consortium; and
       (vii) such other matters as the Secretary considers 
     appropriate.
       (6) Evaluation of applications.--The Secretary shall 
     evaluate each application received under paragraph (5) to 
     determine--
       (A) whether the applicant demonstrates a significant level 
     of regional cooperation in their proposal; and
       (B) how the manufacturing concentration of the applicant 
     competitively ranks nationally according to measures 
     described in paragraph (5)(B)(ii).
       (7) Certain communities previously recognized.--Each 
     consortium that was designated as a manufacturing community 
     by the Secretary in carrying out the Investing in 
     Manufacturing Communities Partnership initiative of the 
     Department of Commerce before the date of the enactment of 
     this Act shall be deemed a manufacturing community designated 
     under this subsection if such consortium is still designated 
     as a manufacturing community by the Secretary as part of such 
     initiative.
       (e) Support for Designated Manufacturing Communities.--
       (1) Preferential consideration.--
       (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph (D), if 
     a member of a consortium designated as a manufacturing 
     community under subsection (d) seeks financial or technical 
     assistance under a participating program of a participating 
     agency, the head of such agency may give preferential 
     consideration to such member with respect to the awarding of 
     such financial or technical assistance if--
       (i) such head considers the award of the financial or 
     technical assistance consistent with the economic development 
     strategy of the consortium; and
       (ii) the member otherwise meets all applicable requirements 
     for the financial or technical assistance.
       (B) Participating agencies.--The Secretary shall invite 
     other Federal agencies to become participating agencies of 
     the Manufacturing Community Support Program.
       (C) Participating programs.--The head of each participating 
     agency shall identify all programs administered by such 
     participating agency that are applicable to the Manufacturing 
     Community Support Program.
       (D) Multiple members of the same consortium seeking the 
     same financial or technical assistance.--
       (i) In general.--If a participating agency receives 
     applications for the same financial or technical assistance 
     from more than one member of the same consortium designated 
     as a manufacturing community under subsection (d), the head 
     of such agency may determine how preference will be given 
     under subparagraph (A), including by requiring the consortium 
     to select which of the members should be given preference.
       (ii) Coordination.--If the head of a participating agency 
     determines that more than one member of a consortium should 
     be given preference for financial or technical assistance 
     under subparagraph (A), he or she may require such members to 
     demonstrate coordination with each other in developing their 
     applications for the financial or technical assistance.
       (E) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the head of each participating agency 
     shall submit a report to the Secretary that specifies how the 
     head will give preferential consideration under subparagraph 
     (A).
       (2) Technical assistance.--The Secretary may make a Federal 
     point of contact available to each consortium designated as a 
     manufacturing community under subsection (d) to help the 
     members of the consortium access Federal funds and technical 
     assistance.
       (3) Financial and technical assistance.--
       (A) In general.--Under the Manufacturing Community Support 
     Program, the head of a participating agency may award 
     financial or technical assistance to a member of a consortium 
     designated as a manufacturing community under subsection (d) 
     as he or she considers appropriate for purposes of such 
     program and consistent with the economic development strategy 
     of the consortium.
       (B) Use of funds.--
       (i) In general.--A recipient of financial or technical 
     assistance under subparagraph (A) may use such financial or 
     technical assistance to support an investment in an ecosystem 
     that will improve the competitiveness of United States 
     manufacturing.
       (ii) Investments supported.--Investments supported under 
     this subparagraph may include--

       (I) infrastructure;
       (II) access to capital;
       (III) promotion of exports and foreign direct investment;
       (IV) equipment or facility upgrades;
       (V) workforce training, retraining, or recruitment and 
     retention, including that of women and underrepresented 
     minorities;
       (VI) energy or process efficiency;
       (VII) business incubators;
       (VIII) site preparation;
       (IX) advanced research;
       (X) supply chain development; and
       (XI) small business assistance.

       (4) Coordination.--
       (A) Coordination by secretary of commerce.--The Secretary 
     shall coordinate with the heads of the participating agencies 
     to identify programs under paragraph (1)(C).
       (B) Inter-agency coordination.--The heads of the 
     participating agencies shall coordinate with each other--
       (i) to leverage complementary activities, including from 
     non-Federal sources, such as philanthropies; and
       (ii) to avoid duplication of efforts.
       (f) Receipt of Transferred Funds.--The Secretary may accept 
     amounts transferred to the Secretary from the head of another 
     participating agency to carry out this section.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 802. Mr. CARDIN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

     SEC. __. CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENT THAT MILITARY ACTIONS ARE 
                   NOT INFLUENCED BY FINANCIAL OR BENEFICIAL 
                   INTERESTS HELD BY THE PRESIDENT.

       The United States Armed Forces may not take any military 
     action in any country in which the President or the 
     President's close relatives (immediate family, including 
     spouse, children, and sons- and-daughters-in-law) have assets 
     or businesses in which they hold an ownership interest, 
     financial interest, or beneficial interest unless the 
     President, the Secretary of Defense, and the Chairman of the 
     Joint Chiefs of Staff jointly certify to Congress that the 
     proposed military action is not influenced in any way by any 
     financial or beneficial interest held by the President.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 803. Mr. CARDIN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

     SEC. __. EMOLUMENT CLAUSE VIOLATIONS.

       (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
       (1) Article I, section 9, clause 8 of the United States 
     Constitution (commonly known as the ``Emoluments Clause'') 
     declares, ``No title of Nobility shall be granted by the 
     United States: And no Person holding any Office of Profit or 
     Trust under them, shall, without the Consent of the Congress, 
     accept of any present, Emolument, Office, or Title, of any 
     kind whatever, from any King, Prince, or foreign State.''.
       (2) According to the remarks of Governor Edmund Randolph at 
     the 1787 Constitutional Convention, the Emoluments Clause 
     ``was thought proper, in order to exclude corruption and 
     foreign influence, to prohibit any one in office from 
     receiving or holding any emoluments from foreign states''.
       (3) The issue of foreign corruption greatly concerned the 
     Founding Fathers of the United States, such that Alexander 
     Hamilton in Federalist No. 22 wrote, ``In republics, persons 
     elevated from the mass of the community, by the suffrages of 
     their fellow-citizens, to stations of great pre-eminence and 
     power, may find compensations for betraying their trust, 
     which, to any but minds animated and guided by superior 
     virtue, may appear to exceed the proportion of interest they 
     have in the common stock, and to overbalance the obligations 
     of duty. Hence it is that history furnishes us with so many 
     mortifying examples of the prevalency of foreign corruption 
     in republican governments.''.
       (4) The President of the United States is the head of the 
     executive branch of the Federal Government and is expected to 
     have undivided loyalty to the United States, and clearly 
     occupies an ``office of profit or trust'' within the meaning 
     of article I, section 9, clause 8 of the Constitution, 
     according to the Office of Legal Counsel of the Department of 
     Justice.
       (5) The Office of Legal Counsel of the Department of 
     Justice opined in 2009 that corporations owned or controlled 
     by a foreign government are presumptively foreign states 
     under the Emoluments Clause.
       (6) President Donald J. Trump has a business network, the 
     Trump Organization, that

[[Page S5012]]

     has financial interests around the world and negotiates and 
     concludes transactions with foreign states and entities that 
     are extensions of foreign states.
       (7) The very nature of a ``blind trust'', as defined by 
     former White House Ethics Counsels Richard Painter and Norm 
     Eisen in an opinion piece in the Washington Post entitled, 
     ``Trump's `blind trust' is neither blind nor trustworthy'', 
     dated November 15, 2016, and the Congressional Research 
     Service report ``The Use of Blind Trusts By Federal 
     Officials'', is such that the official will have no control 
     over, will receive no communications about, and will have no 
     knowledge of the identity of the specific assets held in the 
     trust, and that the manager of the trust is independent of 
     the owner.
       (8) On January 11, 2017, President-elect Donald J. Trump 
     and his lawyers held a press conference to announce that he 
     would be placing his assets in a trust and turning over 
     management of the Trump Organization to his two adult sons, 
     Donald Trump, Jr., and Eric Trump, and executive Allen 
     Weisselberg; that there will be no communication with 
     President Trump and no new overseas business deals; that an 
     ethics advisor will be appointed to the management team to 
     fully vet any new proposed domestic deals; and that the Trump 
     Organization will donate any profits from any foreign 
     governments that use Trump hotels to the Department of the 
     Treasury.
       (9) This arrangement is not sufficient because of its utter 
     lack of independent accountability and transparency, such 
     that the director of the Office of Government Ethics has 
     stated that ``[t]he plan the [President] has announced 
     doesn't meet the standards that the best of his nominees are 
     meeting and that every president in the last four decades 
     have met''.
       (10) The director of the Office of Government Ethics has 
     characterized the promise to limit President Trump's direct 
     communication about the Trump Organization as ``wholly 
     inadequate'' because President Trump would still be well-
     aware of the specific assets held and could receive 
     communications about and take actions to affect the value of 
     those assets, especially when those running the business are 
     his own children, whom Trump will see often.
       (11) The promise that no new overseas business deals will 
     be agreed to by the Trump Organization fails to explain what 
     constitutes a deal, and whether expansions to existing 
     properties, licensing or permitting fee agreements, or loans 
     from foreign banks like Deutsche Bank AG would qualify as 
     ``deals''.
       (12) The promise that the Trump Organization will donate 
     profits from any foreign governments that use Trump hotels 
     does not include Trump golf courses and other properties; 
     does not explain whether the promise covers foreign 
     government officials who register under their own names or 
     third-party vendors hired by foreign governments to do 
     business with the Trump Organization; does not explain 
     whether foreign organizations signing tenant agreements with 
     domestic Trump businesses, such as the Industrial and 
     Commercial Bank of China, which is Trump Tower's biggest 
     tenant, qualifies; does not define what constitutes 
     ``profits''; does not address the fact that revenue received 
     by a failing business still provides value to that business 
     even if there is no net profit; and has no mechanism for the 
     public to verify that the promise is being fulfilled.
       (13) President Trump's lawyer claimed that ``it would be 
     impossible to find an institutional trustee that would be 
     competent to run the Trump Organization'' when there are 
     dozens if not hundreds of highly qualified trustees who 
     handle complicated business situations like the disposition 
     of the Trump Organization.
       (14) At the January 11, 2017, press conference, President-
     elect Trump's lawyer implied that the only reason people have 
     raised the Emoluments Clause is over ``routine business 
     transactions like paying for hotel rooms'' and claimed that 
     ``[p]aying for a hotel room is not a gift or a present, and 
     it has nothing to do with an office. It's not an 
     emolument.''.
       (15) A comprehensive study of the Emoluments Clause written 
     by Richard Painter, Norman Eisen, and Lawrence Tribe, two of 
     whom are former ethics counsels to past Presidents, has 
     concluded that ``since emoluments are properly defined as 
     including `profit' from any employment, as well as `salary,' 
     it is clear that even remuneration fairly earned in commerce 
     can qualify''.
       (16) Numerous legal and constitutional experts, including 
     several former White House ethics counsels, have also made 
     clear that the arrangement announced on January 11, 2017, in 
     which the President fails to exit the ownership of his 
     businesses through use of a blind trust or equivalent, will 
     leave the President with a personal financial interest in 
     businesses that collect foreign government payments and 
     benefits, which raises both constitutional and public 
     interest concerns.
       (17) Presidents Ronald Reagan, George H.W. Bush, William J. 
     Clinton, and George W. Bush have set the precedent of using 
     true blind trusts, in which their holdings were liquidated 
     and placed in new investments unknown to them by an 
     independent trustee who managed them free of familial bias.
       (18) The continued intermingling of the business of the 
     Trump Organization and the work of government has the 
     potential to constitute the foreign corruption so feared by 
     the Founding Fathers and to betray the trust of America's 
     citizens.
       (19) On January 20, 2017, President Trump swore an oath to 
     preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United 
     States, the rights, privileges and limitations of which are 
     defined and guarded by the Federal judiciary of the United 
     States.
       (20) Congress has an institutional, constitutional 
     obligation to ensure that the President of the United States 
     does not violate the Emoluments Clause of the Constitution, 
     Federal law, or fundamental principles of ethics, and is 
     discharging the obligations of office based on the national 
     interest, not based on personal interest.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--Congress--
       (1) finds the promised actions outlined by President Donald 
     J. Trump at his January 11, 2017, press conference wholly 
     inadequate and insufficient to ensure compliance with the 
     Emoluments Clause of the United States Constitution;
       (2) calls upon President Trump to follow the precedent 
     established by prior Presidents and convert his assets to 
     simple, conflict-free holdings, adopt blind trusts managed by 
     an independent trustee with no relationship to Donald J. 
     Trump or his businesses, or take other equivalent measures;
       (3) calls upon President Trump not to use the powers or 
     opportunities of his position as President of the United 
     States for any purpose related to the Trump Organization; and
       (4) regards, in the absence of express affirmative 
     authorization by Congress, dealings that Donald J. Trump, as 
     President of the United States, may have through his 
     companies with foreign governments or entities owned or 
     controlled by foreign governments as potential violations of 
     the Emoluments Clause.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 804. Mrs. FISCHER (for herself and Mr. Donnelly) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by her to the bill H.R. 2810, to 
authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and for 
defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       In section 1651(c), strike paragraph (2).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 805. Mr. CORNYN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 85, between lines 23 and 24, insert the following:
       ``(7)(A) The base commander of a military installation 
     impacted by a proposed wind turbine project shall submit to 
     the Clearinghouse a statement of objection or non-objection 
     regarding the impact of proposed project.
       ``(B) The statement shall include the following elements:
       ``(i) An analysis of the impact on pilot safety, training, 
     military operations, and readiness.
       ``(ii) A detailed description of any potential negative 
     impacts on pilot safety, training, military operations, and 
     readiness.
       ``(iii) Any additional information the base commander 
     determines relevant for consideration in the evaluation 
     process.
       ``(iv) A statement of objection or non-objection.
       ``(C) The base commander's recommendation shall be 
     incorporated into the Clearinghouse analysis and made a 
     matter of permanent record.
       ``(D) Any decision by the Clearinghouse that contradicts 
     the base commander recommendation shall be accompanied by a 
     report addressing all the points made in the base commander's 
     statement, and describe how the impacts on pilot safety, 
     training, military operations, and readiness will be 
     prevented.''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 806. Mr. SCHATZ submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title XXVIII, add the 
     following:

     SEC. 2803. ANNUAL LOCALITY ADJUSTMENT OF DOLLAR THRESHOLDS 
                   APPLICABLE TO UNSPECIFIED MINOR MILITARY 
                   CONSTRUCTION AUTHORITIES.

       Section 2805 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
     adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(f) Adjustment of Dollar Limitations for Location.--Each 
     fiscal year, the Secretary concerned shall adjust the dollar 
     limitations specified in this section applicable to an 
     unspecified minor military construction project inside the 
     United States to reflect

[[Page S5013]]

     the area construction cost index for military construction 
     projects published by the Department of Defense during the 
     prior fiscal year for the location of the project.''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 807. Mr. GARDNER (for Mrs. Shaheen) proposed an amendment to the 
bill S. 920, to establish a National Clinical Care Commission; as 
follows:

       On page 5, line 12, strike ``and''.
       On page 5, line 20, strike the period and insert ``; and''.
       On page 5, between lines 20 and 21, insert the following:
       (5) whether there are opportunities for consolidation of 
     inappropriately overlapping or duplicative Federal programs 
     related to the diseases and complications described in 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 809. Mr. McCONNELL proposed an amendment to amendment SA 808 
proposed by Mr. McConnell to the bill H.R. 601, to enhance the 
transparency and accelerate the impact of assistance provided under the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to promote quality basic education in 
developing countries, to better enable such countries to achieve 
universal access to quality basic education and improved learning 
outcomes, to eliminate duplication and waste, and for other purposes; 
as follows:

       At the end add the following:
       ``This act shall be effective 1 day after enactment.''
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 808. Mr. McCONNELL proposed an amendment to the bill H.R. 601, to 
enhance the transparency and accelerate the impact of assistance 
provided under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to promote quality 
basic education in developing countries, to better enable such 
countries to achieve universal access to quality basic education and 
improved learning outcomes, to eliminate duplication and waste, and for 
other purposes; as follows:

       In lieu of the matter proposed to be inserted by House 
     amendment __, insert the following:
       (C) there is the greatest opportunity to reduce childhood 
     and adolescence exposure to or engagement in violent 
     extremism or extremist ideologies.

      DIVISION B--SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR DISASTER RELIEF 
                              REQUIREMENTS

        The following sums are hereby appropriated, out of any 
     money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, and out of 
     applicable corporate or other revenues, receipts, and funds, 
     for the several departments, agencies, corporations, and 
     other organizational units of Government for fiscal year 
     2017, and for other purposes, namely:

                    DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY

                  Federal Emergency Management Agency

                          disaster relief fund

       For an additional amount for ``Disaster Relief Fund'' for 
     major disasters declared pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford 
     Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 
     et seq.), $7,400,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
      Provided further, That such amount is designated by the 
     Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to 
     section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985:  Provided further, That the 
     amount designated under this heading as an emergency 
     requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 
     shall be available only if the President subsequently so 
     designates such amount and transmits such designation to the 
     Congress.

                     SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION

                     disaster loans program account

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For an additional amount for the ``Disaster Loans Program 
     Account'' for the cost of direct loans authorized by section 
     7(b) of the Small Business Act, $450,000,000, to remain 
     available until expended:  Provided, That up to $225,000,000 
     may be transferred to and merged with ``Salaries and 
     Expenses'' for administrative expenses to carry out the 
     disaster loan program authorized by section 7(b) of the Small 
     Business Act:  Provided further, That none of the funds 
     provided under this heading may be used for indirect 
     administrative expenses:  Provided further, That the amount 
     provided under this heading is designated as an emergency 
     requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985:  
     Provided further, That the amount designated under this 
     heading as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985 shall be available only if the President 
     subsequently so designates such amount and transmits such 
     designation to the Congress.

              DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

                   Community Planning and Development

                       community development fund

                     (including transfers of funds)

       For an additional amount for ``Community Development 
     Fund'', $7,400,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
     for necessary expenses for activities authorized under title 
     I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 
     U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) related to disaster relief, long-term 
     recovery, restoration of infrastructure and housing, and 
     economic revitalization in the most impacted and distressed 
     areas resulting from a major disaster declared in 2017 
     pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
     Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.):  Provided, 
     That funds shall be awarded directly to the State or unit of 
     general local government at the discretion of the Secretary:  
     Provided further, That as a condition of making any grant, 
     the Secretary shall certify in advance that such grantee has 
     in place proficient financial controls and procurement 
     processes and has established adequate procedures to prevent 
     any duplication of benefits as defined by section 312 of the 
     Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance 
     Act (42 U.S.C. 5155), to ensure timely expenditure of funds, 
     to maintain comprehensive websites regarding all disaster 
     recovery activities assisted with these funds, and to detect 
     and prevent waste, fraud, and abuse of funds:  Provided 
     further, That prior to the obligation of funds a grantee 
     shall submit a plan to the Secretary for approval detailing 
     the proposed use of all funds, including criteria for 
     eligibility and how the use of these funds will address long-
     term recovery and restoration of infrastructure and housing 
     and economic revitalization in the most impacted and 
     distressed areas:  Provided further, That such funds may not 
     be used for activities reimbursable by, or for which funds 
     are made available by, the Federal Emergency Management 
     Agency or the Army Corps of Engineers:  Provided further, 
     That funds allocated under this heading shall not be 
     considered relevant to the non-disaster formula allocations 
     made pursuant to section 106 of the Housing and Community 
     Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5306):  Provided further, 
     That a State or subdivision thereof may use up to 5 percent 
     of its allocation for administrative costs:  Provided 
     further, That in administering the funds under this heading, 
     the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may waive, or 
     specify alternative requirements for, any provision of any 
     statute or regulation that the Secretary administers in 
     connection with the obligation by the Secretary or the use by 
     the recipient of these funds (except for requirements related 
     to fair housing, nondiscrimination, labor standards, and the 
     environment), if the Secretary finds that good cause exists 
     for the waiver or alternative requirement and such waiver or 
     alternative requirement would not be inconsistent with the 
     overall purpose of title I of the Housing and Community 
     Development Act of 1974:  Provided further, That, 
     notwithstanding the preceding proviso, recipients of funds 
     provided under this heading that use such funds to supplement 
     Federal assistance provided under section 402, 403, 404, 406, 
     407, or 502 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
     Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) may adopt, 
     without review or public comment, any environmental review, 
     approval, or permit performed by a Federal agency, and such 
     adoption shall satisfy the responsibilities of the recipient 
     with respect to such environmental review, approval or 
     permit:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding section 
     104(g)(2) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 
     1974 (42 U.S.C. 5304(g)(2)), the Secretary may, upon receipt 
     of a request for release of funds and certification, 
     immediately approve the release of funds for an activity or 
     project assisted under this heading if the recipient has 
     adopted an environmental review, approval or permit under the 
     preceding proviso or the activity or project is categorically 
     excluded from review under the National Environmental Policy 
     Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.):  Provided further, That 
     the Secretary shall publish via notice in the Federal 
     Register any waiver, or alternative requirement, to any 
     statute or regulation that the Secretary administers pursuant 
     to title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 
     1974 no later than 5 days before the effective date of such 
     waiver or alternative requirement:  Provided further, That of 
     the amounts made available under this heading, up to 
     $10,000,000 may be transferred, in aggregate, to ``Department 
     of Housing and Urban Development--Program Office Salaries and 
     Expenses--Community Planning and Development'' for necessary 
     costs, including information technology costs, of 
     administering and overseeing the obligation and expenditure 
     of amounts under this heading:  Provided further, That such 
     amount is designated by the Congress as being for an 
     emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of 
     the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
     1985:  Provided further, That the amount designated under 
     this heading as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985 shall be available only if the President 
     subsequently so designates such amount and transmits such 
     designation to the Congress.
       This division may be cited as the ``Supplemental 
     Appropriations for Disaster Relief Requirements, 2017''.

          DIVISION C--TEMPORARY EXTENSION OF PUBLIC DEBT LIMIT

       Sec. 101. (a) In General.--Section 3101(b) of title 31, 
     United States Code, shall not apply for the period beginning 
     on the date of

[[Page S5014]]

     enactment of this Act and ending on December 8, 2017.
       (b) Special Rule Relating to Obligations Issued During 
     Extension Period.--Effective on December 9, 2017, the 
     limitation in effect under section 3101(b) of title 31, 
     United States Code, shall be increased to the extent that--
       (1) the face amount of obligations issued under chapter 31 
     of such title and the face amount of obligations whose 
     principal and interest are guaranteed by the United States 
     Government (except guaranteed obligations held by the 
     Secretary of the Treasury) outstanding on December 9, 2017, 
     exceeds
       (2) the face amount of such obligations outstanding on the 
     date of the enactment of this Act.
       (c) Restoring Congressional Authority Over the National 
     Debt. (1) Extension limited to necessary obligations.--An 
     obligation shall not be taken into account under section 
     101(a) unless the issuance of such obligation was necessary 
     to fund a commitment incurred pursuant to law by the Federal 
     Government that required payment before December 9, 2017.
       (2) Prohibition on creation of cash reserve during 
     extension period.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall not 
     issue obligations during the period specified in section 
     101(a) for the purpose of increasing the cash balance above 
     normal operating balances in anticipation of the expiration 
     of such period.

            DIVISION D--CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2018

        The following sums are hereby appropriated, out of any 
     money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, and out of 
     applicable corporate or other revenues, receipts, and funds, 
     for the several departments, agencies, corporations, and 
     other organizational units of Government for fiscal year 
     2018, and for other purposes, namely:
       Sec. 101. (a) Such amounts as may be necessary, at a rate 
     for operations as provided in the applicable appropriations 
     Acts for fiscal year 2017 and under the authority and 
     conditions provided in such Acts, for continuing projects or 
     activities (including the costs of direct loans and loan 
     guarantees) that are not otherwise specifically provided for 
     in this Act, that were conducted in fiscal year 2017, and for 
     which appropriations, funds, or other authority were made 
     available in the following appropriations Acts:
       (1) The Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
     Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2017 
     (division A of Public Law 115-31) and section 193 of Public 
     Law 114-223, as amended by division A of Public Law 114-254.
       (2) The Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies 
     Appropriations Act, 2017 (division B of Public Law 115-31), 
     except section 540.
       (3) The Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2017 
     (division C of Public Law 115-31).
       (4) The Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies 
     Appropriations Act, 2017 (division D of Public Law 115-31).
       (5) The Financial Services and General Government 
     Appropriations Act, 2017 (division E of Public Law 115-31).
       (6) The Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 
     2017 (division F of Public Law 115-31), except section 310.
       (7) The Department of the Interior, Environment, and 
     Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2017 (division G of 
     Public Law 115-31), except that the language under the 
     heading ``FLAME Wildfire Suppression Reserve Fund'' in the 
     Departments of Agriculture and the Interior shall be applied 
     by adding at the end the following: ``Provided further, That 
     notwithstanding the first proviso under the heading and 
     notwithstanding the FLAME Act of 2009, 43 U.S.C. 1748a(e), 
     such funds shall be available to be transferred to and merged 
     with other appropriations accounts to fully repay amounts 
     previously transferred for wildfire suppression''.
       (8) The Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, 
     and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2017 
     (division H of Public Law 115-31) and sections 171, 194, and 
     195 of Public Law 114-223, as amended by division A of Public 
     Law 114-254.
       (9) The Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2017 
     (division I of Public Law 115-31) and section 175 of Public 
     Law 114-223, as amended by division A of Public Law 114-254.
       (10) The Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and 
     Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2017 (division A of 
     Public Law 114-223), except for appropriations for fiscal 
     year 2017 in the matter preceding the first proviso under the 
     heading ``Medical Community Care'', and division L of Public 
     Law 115-31.
       (11) The Department of State, Foreign Operations, and 
     Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2017 (division J of 
     Public Law 115-31).
       (12) The Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and 
     Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2017 (division K of 
     Public Law 115-31), except sections 420 and 421.
       (13) The Security Assistance Appropriations Act, 2017 
     (division B of Public Law 114-254).
       (b) The rate for operations provided by subsection (a) is 
     hereby reduced by 0.6791 percent.
       Sec. 102. (a) No appropriation or funds made available or 
     authority granted pursuant to section 101 for the Department 
     of Defense shall be used for: (1) the new production of items 
     not funded for production in fiscal year 2017 or prior years; 
     (2) the increase in production rates above those sustained 
     with fiscal year 2017 funds; or (3) the initiation, 
     resumption, or continuation of any project, activity, 
     operation, or organization (defined as any project, 
     subproject, activity, budget activity, program element, and 
     subprogram within a program element, and for any investment 
     items defined as a P-1 line item in a budget activity within 
     an appropriation account and an R-1 line item that includes a 
     program element and subprogram element within an 
     appropriation account) for which appropriations, funds, or 
     other authority were not available during fiscal year 2017.
       (b) No appropriation or funds made available or authority 
     granted pursuant to section 101 for the Department of Defense 
     shall be used to initiate multi-year procurements utilizing 
     advance procurement funding for economic order quantity 
     procurement unless specifically appropriated later.
       Sec. 103.  Appropriations made by section 101 shall be 
     available to the extent and in the manner that would be 
     provided by the pertinent appropriations Act.
       Sec. 104.  Except as otherwise provided in section 102, no 
     appropriation or funds made available or authority granted 
     pursuant to section 101 shall be used to initiate or resume 
     any project or activity for which appropriations, funds, or 
     other authority were not available during fiscal year 2017.
       Sec. 105.  Appropriations made and authority granted 
     pursuant to this Act shall cover all obligations or 
     expenditures incurred for any project or activity during the 
     period for which funds or authority for such project or 
     activity are available under this Act.
       Sec. 106.  Unless otherwise provided for in this Act or in 
     the applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 2018, 
     appropriations and funds made available and authority granted 
     pursuant to this Act shall be available until whichever of 
     the following first occurs:
       (1) the enactment into law of an appropriation for any 
     project or activity provided for in this Act;
       (2) the enactment into law of the applicable appropriations 
     Act for fiscal year 2018 without any provision for such 
     project or activity; or
       (3) December 8, 2017.
       Sec. 107.  Expenditures made pursuant to this Act shall be 
     charged to the applicable appropriation, fund, or 
     authorization whenever a bill in which such applicable 
     appropriation, fund, or authorization is contained is enacted 
     into law.
       Sec. 108.  Appropriations made and funds made available by 
     or authority granted pursuant to this Act may be used without 
     regard to the time limitations for submission and approval of 
     apportionments set forth in section 1513 of title 31, United 
     States Code, but nothing in this Act may be construed to 
     waive any other provision of law governing the apportionment 
     of funds.
       Sec. 109.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, 
     except section 106, for those programs that would otherwise 
     have high initial rates of operation or complete distribution 
     of appropriations at the beginning of fiscal year 2018 
     because of distributions of funding to States, foreign 
     countries, grantees, or others, such high initial rates of 
     operation or complete distribution shall not be made, and no 
     grants shall be awarded for such programs funded by this Act 
     that would impinge on final funding prerogatives.
       Sec. 110.  This Act shall be implemented so that only the 
     most limited funding action of that permitted in the Act 
     shall be taken in order to provide for continuation of 
     projects and activities.
       Sec. 111. (a) For entitlements and other mandatory payments 
     whose budget authority was provided in appropriations Acts 
     for fiscal year 2017, and for activities under the Food and 
     Nutrition Act of 2008, activities shall be continued at the 
     rate to maintain program levels under current law, under the 
     authority and conditions provided in the applicable 
     appropriations Act for fiscal year 2017, to be continued 
     through the date specified in section 106(3).
       (b) Notwithstanding section 106, obligations for mandatory 
     payments due on or about the first day of any month that 
     begins after October 2017 but not later than 30 days after 
     the date specified in section 106(3) may continue to be made, 
     and funds shall be available for such payments.
       Sec. 112.  Amounts made available under section 101 for 
     civilian personnel compensation and benefits in each 
     department and agency may be apportioned up to the rate for 
     operations necessary to avoid furloughs within such 
     department or agency, consistent with the applicable 
     appropriations Act for fiscal year 2017, except that such 
     authority provided under this section shall not be used until 
     after the department or agency has taken all necessary 
     actions to reduce or defer non-personnel-related 
     administrative expenses.
       Sec. 113.  Funds appropriated by this Act may be obligated 
     and expended notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 91-672 
     (22 U.S.C. 2412), section 15 of the State Department Basic 
     Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2680), section 313 of the 
     Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 
     1995 (22 U.S.C. 6212), and section 504(a)(1) of the National 
     Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3094(a)(1)).
       Sec. 114. (a) Each amount incorporated by reference in this 
     Act that was previously designated by the Congress for 
     Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism or as 
     an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
     the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act

[[Page S5015]]

     of 1985 or as being for disaster relief pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(D) of such Act is designated by the Congress for 
     Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism or as 
     an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
     such Act or as being for disaster relief pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(D) of such Act, respectively.
       (b) The reduction in section 101(b) of this Act shall not 
     apply to--
       (1) amounts designated under subsection (a) of this 
     section;
       (2) amounts made available by section 101(a) by reference 
     to the second paragraph under the heading ``Social Security 
     Administration--Limitation on Administrative Expenses'' in 
     division H of Public Law 115-31; or
       (3) amounts made available by section 101(a) by reference 
     to the paragraph under the heading ``Centers for Medicare and 
     Medicaid Services--Health Care Fraud and Abuse Control 
     Account'' in division H of Public Law 115-31.
       (c) Section 6 of Public Law 115-31 shall apply to amounts 
     designated in subsection (a) for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism or as an emergency 
     requirement.
       Sec. 115.  During the period covered by this Act, 
     discretionary amounts appropriated for fiscal year 2018 that 
     were provided in advance by appropriations Acts shall be 
     available in the amounts provided in such Acts, reduced by 
     the percentage in section 101(b).
       Sec. 116.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are 
     provided for ``Department of Agriculture--Domestic Food 
     Programs--Food and Nutrition Service--Commodity Assistance 
     Program'' at a rate for operations of $317,139,000, of which 
     $238,120,000 shall be for the Commodity Supplemental Food 
     Program.
       Sec. 117.  The final proviso in section 715 of division A 
     of Public Law 115-31 shall be applied during the period 
     covered by this Act by adding ``from amounts first made 
     available for fiscal year 2018'' after ``unobligated 
     balances'' and as if the following were struck from such 
     proviso: ``the carryover amounts authorized in the first 
     proviso of this section for section 32 and''.
       Sec. 118.  Amounts made available by section 101 for 
     ``Department of Commerce--Bureau of the Census--Periodic 
     Censuses and Programs'' may be apportioned up to the rate for 
     operations necessary to maintain the schedule and deliver the 
     required data according to statutory deadlines in the 2020 
     Decennial Census Program.
       Sec. 119.  Section 1215(f)(1) of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 10 
     U.S.C. 113 note), as most recently amended by section 1223 of 
     the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
     (Public Law 114-328), shall be applied by substituting 
     ``2018'' for ``2017'' through the earlier of the date 
     specified in section 106(3) of this Act or the date of the 
     enactment of an Act authorizing appropriations for fiscal 
     year 2018 for military activities of the Department of 
     Defense.
       Sec. 120. (a) Funds made available by section 101 for 
     ``Department of Energy--Energy Programs--Uranium Enrichment 
     Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund'' may be apportioned 
     up to the rate for operations necessary to avoid disruption 
     of continuing projects or activities funded in this 
     appropriation.
       (b) The Secretary of Energy shall notify the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
     not later than 3 days after each use of the authority 
     provided in subsection (a).
       Sec. 121.  Section 104(c) of the Reclamation States 
     Emergency Drought Relief Act of 1991 (43 U.S.C. 2214(c)) 
     shall be applied by substituting the date specified in 
     section 106(3) for ``September 30, 2017''.
       Sec. 122. (a) Notwithstanding section 101, the third 
     proviso under the heading ``Power Marketing Administrations--
     Operation and Maintenance, Southeastern Power 
     Administration'' in division D of Public Law 115-31 shall be 
     applied by substituting ``$51,000,000'' for ``$60,760,000''.
       (b) Notwithstanding section 101, the third proviso under 
     the heading ``Power Marketing Administrations--Operation and 
     Maintenance, Southwestern Power Administration'' in division 
     D of Public Law 115-31 shall be applied by substituting 
     ``$10,000,000'' for ``$73,000,000''.
       (c) Notwithstanding section 101, the third proviso under 
     the heading ``Power Marketing Administrations--Construction, 
     Rehabilitation, Operation and Maintenance, Western Area Power 
     Administration'' in division D of Public Law 115-31 shall be 
     applied by substituting ``$179,000,000'' for 
     ``$367,009,000''.
       Sec. 123.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, 
     except section 106, the District of Columbia may expend local 
     funds under the heading ``District of Columbia Funds'' for 
     such programs and activities under the District of Columbia 
     Appropriations Act, 2017 (title IV of division E of Public 
     Law 115-31) at the rate set forth under ``Part A--Summary of 
     Expenses'' as included in the Fiscal Year 2018 Local Budget 
     Act of 2017 (D.C. Act 22-99), as modified as of the date of 
     the enactment of this Act.
       Sec. 124. (a) Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are 
     provided for ``General Services Administration--Allowances 
     and Office Staff for Former Presidents'' to carry out the 
     provisions of the Act of August 25, 1958 (3 U.S.C. 102 note), 
     at a rate for operations of $4,754,000.
       (b) Notwithstanding section 101, no funds are provided by 
     this Act for ``General Services Administration--Expenses, 
     Presidential Transition'' and ``Executive Office of the 
     President and Funds Appropriated to the President--
     Presidential Transition Administrative Support''.
       (c) Notwithstanding section 101, the matter preceding the 
     first proviso under the heading ``District of Columbia--
     Federal Payment for Emergency Planning and Security Costs in 
     the District of Columbia'' in division E of Public Law 115-31 
     shall be applied by substituting ``$14,900,000'' for 
     ``$34,895,000'' and the first proviso under that heading 
     shall not apply during the period covered by this Act.
       (d) Notwithstanding section 101, the matter preceding the 
     first proviso under the heading ``National Archives and 
     Records Administration--Operating Expenses'' in division E of 
     Public Law 115-31 shall be applied by substituting 
     ``$375,784,000'' for ``$380,634,000''.
       (e) Notwithstanding section 101, the matter preceding the 
     first proviso under the heading ``Department of the 
     Interior--National Park Service--Operation of the National 
     Park System'' in division G of Public Law 115-31 shall be 
     applied by substituting ``$2,420,818,000'' for 
     ``$2,425,018,000''.
       Sec. 125.  Amounts made available by section 101 for 
     ``Department of Homeland Security--Office of the Secretary 
     and Executive Management--Operations and Support'', 
     ``Department of Homeland Security--Management Directorate--
     Operations and Support'', and ``Department of Homeland 
     Security--Intelligence, Analysis, and Operations 
     Coordination--Operations and Support'' may be apportioned up 
     to the rate for operations necessary to carry out activities 
     previously funded under ``Department of Homeland Security--
     Working Capital Fund'', consistent with the fiscal year 2018 
     President's Budget.
       Sec. 126.  Amounts made available by section 101 for ``U.S. 
     Customs and Border Protection--Operations and Support'', 
     ``U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement--Operations and 
     Support'', ``Transportation Security Administration--
     Operations and Support'', and ``United States Secret 
     Service--Operations and Support'' accounts of the Department 
     of Homeland Security may be apportioned at a rate for 
     operations necessary to maintain not less than the number of 
     staff achieved on September 30, 2017.
       Sec. 127.  The authority provided by section 831 of the 
     Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 391) shall continue 
     in effect through the date specified in section 106(3) of 
     this Act.
       Sec. 128.  Section 404 of the Coast Guard Authorization Act 
     of 2010 (Public Law 111-281; 124 Stat. 2950), as amended, 
     shall be applied in subsection (b) by substituting the date 
     specified in section 106(3) for ``September 30, 2017''.
       Sec. 129.  Amounts made available by section 101 for 
     ``Department of Homeland Security--Federal Emergency 
     Management Agency--Disaster Relief Fund'' may be apportioned 
     up to the rate for operations necessary to carry out response 
     and recovery activities under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster 
     Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.).
       Sec. 130.  Sections 1309(a) and 1319 of the National Flood 
     Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4016(a) and 4026) shall be 
     applied by substituting the date specified in section 106(3) 
     of this Act for ``September 30, 2017''.
       Sec. 131.  Section 810 of the Federal Lands Recreation 
     Enhancement Act (16 U.S.C. 6809) is amended by striking 
     ``September 30, 2018'' and inserting ``September 30, 2019''.
       Sec. 132.  The authority provided by subsection (m)(3) of 
     section 8162 of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
     2000 (40 U.S.C. 8903 note; Public Law 106-79) shall continue 
     in effect through the date specified in section 106(3) of 
     this Act.
       Sec. 133.  In addition to the amounts otherwise provided by 
     section 101, an additional amount is provided for 
     ``Environmental Protection Agency--Water Infrastructure 
     Finance and Innovation Program Account'' for administrative 
     expenses to carry out the direct and guaranteed loan 
     programs, notwithstanding section 5033 of the Water 
     Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act of 2014, at a rate 
     for operations of $3,000,000.
       Sec. 134. (a) The following sections of the Federal 
     Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act shall continue in 
     effect through the date specified in section 106(3) of this 
     joint resolution--
       (1) subparagraphs (C) through (E) of section 4(i)(1) (7 
     U.S.C. 136a-1(i)(1)(C)-(E));
       (2) section 4(k)(3) (7 U.S.C. 136a-1(k)(3));
       (3) section 4(k)(4) (7 U.S.C. 136a-1(k)(4)); and
       (4) section 33(c)(3)(B) (7 U.S.C. 136w-8(c)(3)(B)).
       (b)(1) Section 4(i)(1)(I) of the Federal Insecticide, 
     Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 136a-1(i)(1)(I)) 
     shall be applied by substituting the date specified in 
     section 106(3) of this joint resolution for ``September 30, 
     2017''.
       (2) Notwithstanding section 33(m)(2) of the Federal 
     Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 136w-
     8(m)(2)), section 33(m)(1) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 136w-
     8(m)(1)) shall be applied by substituting the date specified 
     in section 106(3) of this joint resolution for ``September 
     30, 2017''.
       (c) Section 408(m)(3) of the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 346a(m)(3)) shall be applied by 
     substituting the date specified in section 106(3) of this 
     joint resolution for ``September 30, 2017''.
       Sec. 135.  Section 114(f) of the Higher Education Act of 
     1965 (20 U.S.C. 1011c(f)) shall be applied by substituting 
     the date specified in section 106(3) of this Act for 
     ``September 30, 2017''.

[[Page S5016]]

       Sec. 136.  The second proviso under the heading 
     ``Department of Health and Human Services--Administration for 
     Children and Families--Children and Families Services 
     Programs'' in title II of division H of Public Law 115-31 
     shall be applied during the period covered by this Act as if 
     the following were struck from such proviso: ``, of which 
     $80,000,000 shall be available for a cost of living 
     adjustment notwithstanding section 640(a)(3)(A) of such 
     Act''.
       Sec. 137.  The proviso at the end of paragraph (1) under 
     the heading ``Department of Labor--Employment and Training 
     Administration--State Unemployment Insurance and Employment 
     Service Operations'' in title I of division G of Public Law 
     113-235 shall be applied through the date specified in 
     section 106(3) of this Act by substituting ``seven'' for 
     ``six''.
       Sec. 138.  In making Federal financial assistance, the 
     National Institutes of Health shall continue through the date 
     specified in section 106(3) of this Act to apply the 
     provisions relating to indirect costs in part 75 of title 45, 
     Code of Federal Regulations, including with respect to the 
     approval of deviations from negotiated rates, to the same 
     extent and in the same manner as the National Institutes of 
     Health applied such provisions in the third quarter of fiscal 
     year 2017. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be 
     used to develop or implement a modified approach to such 
     provisions, or to intentionally or substantially expand the 
     fiscal effect of the approval of such deviations from 
     negotiated rates beyond the proportional effect of such 
     approvals in such quarter.
       Sec. 139. (a) Section 529 of division H of Public Law 115-
     31 shall be applied by substituting ``prior to the beginning 
     of fiscal year 2018 under section 2104(n)(2)'' for ``from the 
     appropriation to the Fund for the first semiannual allotment 
     period for fiscal year 2017 under section 
     2104(n)(2)(A)(ii)''; and
       (b) section 532 of division H of Public Law 115-31 shall be 
     applied by substituting ``2,652,000,000'' for 
     ``1,132,000,000''.
       Sec. 140.  Notwithstanding 2 U.S.C. 4577, amounts made 
     available by section 101 for ``Legislative Branch--Senate--
     Salaries, Officers and Employees--Office of the Sergeant at 
     Arms and Doorkeeper'' may be apportioned up to the rate for 
     operations necessary to maintain current Senate cybersecurity 
     capabilities.
       Sec. 141. (a) The remaining unobligated balances of funds 
     made available under the heading ``Department of Veterans 
     Affairs--Departmental Administration--Construction, Major 
     Projects'' in division A of the Disaster Relief 
     Appropriations Act of 2013 and Sandy Recovery Improvement Act 
     of 2013 (Public Law 113-2) are hereby rescinded:  Provided, 
     That the amounts rescinded pursuant to this section that were 
     previously designated by the Congress as an emergency 
     requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 are 
     designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
     pursuant to that section of that Act.
       (b) In addition to the amount otherwise provided by section 
     101 for ``Department of Veterans Affairs--Departmental 
     Administration--Construction, Major Projects'', there is 
     appropriated for an additional amount for fiscal year 2017, 
     to remain available until September 30, 2022, an amount equal 
     to the unobligated balances rescinded pursuant to subsection 
     (a), for renovations and repairs as a consequence of damage 
     caused by Hurricane Sandy:  Provided, That notwithstanding 
     any other provision of law, such funds may be obligated and 
     expended to carry out planning and design and major medical 
     facility construction not otherwise authorized by law:  
     Provided further, That such amount is designated by the 
     Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to 
     section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985.
       (c) Each amount designated in this section by the Congress 
     as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985 shall be available (or rescinded, if 
     applicable) only if the President subsequently so designates 
     all such amounts and transmits such designations to the 
     Congress.
       (d) This section shall become effective immediately upon 
     enactment of this Act.
       Sec. 142.  Sections 579(a)(1) and (b) of the Multifamily 
     Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability Act of 1997 (42 
     U.S.C. 1437f note) shall be applied by substituting the date 
     specified in section 106(3) for ``October 1, 2017''.
       This division may be cited as the ``Continuing 
     Appropriations Act, 2018''.

                          ____________________



