

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 181 (Tuesday, November 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 181 (Tuesday, November 7, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7066]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. STRANGE. Mr. President, I have 6 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


                      Committee on Armed Services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, November 7, 2017, at 10 a.m., to 
conduct a hearing on the following nominations: Robert Behler, of 
Pennsylvania, to be Director of Operational Test and Evaluation, Dean 
L. Winslow, of Delaware, to be an Assistant Secretary, Thomas B. Modly, 
of Maryland, to be Under Secretary of the Navy, and James F. Geurts, of 
Pennsylvania, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Navy, all of the 
Department of Defense.


            Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs

  The Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, November 7, 2017, at 
10 a.m. to conduct an executive hearing on S. 1591 ``The Banking 
Restrictions Involving North Korea (BRINK) Act of 2017.''


        Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs

  The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, 
November 7, 2017, at 9:30 a.m. to conduct a hearing on the following 
nominations: Ernest W. Dubester, of Virginia, Colleen Kiko, of North 
Dakota, and James Thomas Abbott, of Virginia, each to be a Member of 
the Federal Labor Relations Authority.


                    Select Committee on Intelligence

  The Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, November 7, 2017, at 2:30 p.m., in 
room SH-219 to conduct a closed hearing.


    Subcommittee on Communications, Technology, Innovation, and the 
                                Internet

  The Subcommittee on Communications, Technology, Innovation, and the 
Internet of the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, 
November 7, 2017, at 10 a.m., in room SR-253 to conduct a hearing 
entitled ``Advancing the Internet of Things in Rural America.''


Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity 
                                 Policy

  The Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International 
Cybersecurity Policy of the Committee on Foreign Relations is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, 
November 7, 2017, at 2:30 p.m. to conduct a closed hearing.

                          ____________________



