

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 144 (Thursday, September 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 144 (Thursday, September 7, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H7097]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           KEEPING GUAM SAFE

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
Guam (Ms. Bordallo) for 5 minutes.


 =========================== NOTE =========================== 

  
  September 7, 2017, on page H7097, the following appeared: Guam 
(Ms. Bordallo) for minutes.
  
  The online version has been corrected to read: Guam (Ms. 
Bordallo) for 5 minutes.


 ========================= END NOTE ========================= 

  Ms. BORDALLO. Mr. Speaker, yesterday I introduced a resolution with 
21 of our colleagues from both sides of the aisle condemning the 
threats North Korea made against Guam last month--you can imagine the 
fear that we had during this period--but also reaffirming the United 
States' absolute and unshakeable commitment to Guam's security, as well 
as that of the Pacific States, the territories, and our Asia-Pacific 
allies.
  Mr. Speaker, this threat against Guam and, indeed, our entire Nation, 
was inexcusable, and it demands firm condemnation from this House of 
Representatives.
  My resolution sends a clear message that North Korea's continued 
willful disregard for U.N. resolutions, international agreements, 
sanctions, and arms controls in pursuit of its illicit nuclear weapons 
program will not go unanswered by our government.
  I remain fully confident in the defensive capabilities on Guam and in 
our region, but it is vital that we do all that we can to prevent a 
military conflict with North Korea and ensure that its regime does not 
continue down this path of reckless and destabilizing nuclear 
militarization.
  I want to thank my colleagues who have cosponsored this resolution 
with me, and I hope that the House leadership will quickly bring it to 
the floor for consideration, and I urge all the Members to support it.


             Calling for the House to Take Up the Dream Act

  Ms. BORDALLO. On a separate topic, Mr. Speaker, I also want to echo 
my Democratic colleagues in calling for the House to quickly take up a 
permanent legislation solution such as the Dream Act, H.R. 3440, and 
lift the veil of anxiety that has been placed on nearly 800,000 
DREAMers who live in and contribute to our community.

                              {time}  1100

  I know one of those DREAMers on Guam. Her name is Christine. She is a 
registered nurse on our island and works every day to save lives in our 
community. And it is easy, Mr. Speaker, to hear the number 800,000 and 
forget that these DREAMers are real people.
  They are individual children or young adults who study in our 
schools. They work. They pay taxes. So can you imagine how disruptive 
this must be in their homes? They are our neighbors, our coworkers, our 
children's classmates and friends.
  They are first responders, servicemembers, reservists, National 
Guardsmen, active military who serve on the front lines in our 
military. They are nurses, and doctors, businessowners, and 
entrepreneurs, and all DREAMers contribute to the fabric of our great 
country of America.
  So I hope that we will give these DREAMers the security of knowing 
that they will not be deported from the country that they love and have 
called home for most of their lives. They are Americans in all but 
paper, and we should treat them with the same compassion and love that 
they have for our great country.

                          ____________________



