

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 183 (Thursday, November 9, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 183 (Thursday, November 9, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7153]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                            VOTE EXPLANATION

  Mrs. McCASKILL. Mr. President, I was necessarily absent for vote No. 
253 on October 30, 2017, on the confirmation of Trevor N. McFadden to 
be U.S. district judge for the District of Columbia. Had I been 
present, I would have voted yea.
  Mr. President, I was necessarily absent for vote No. 254 on October 
30, 2017, on the motion to invoke cloture on the nomination of Amy 
Coney Barrett to be U.S. circuit judge for the Seventh Circuit. Had I 
been present, I would have voted nay.
  Mr. President, I was necessarily absent for vote No. 255 on October 
31, 2017, on the confirmation of Amy Coney Barrett to be U.S. circuit 
judge for the Seventh Circuit. Had I been present, I would have voted 
nay.
  Mr. President, I was necessarily absent for vote No. 256 on October 
31, 2017, on the motion to invoke cloture on the nomination of Joan 
Louise Larsen to be U.S. circuit judge for the Sixth Circuit. Had I 
been present, I would have voted yea.
  Mr. President, I was necessarily absent for vote No. 257 on November 
1, 2017, on the confirmation of Joan Louise Larsen to be U.S. circuit 
judge for the Sixth Circuit. Had I been present, I would have voted 
yea.
  Mr. President, I was necessarily absent for vote No. 258 on November 
1, 2017, on the motion to invoke cloture on the nomination of Allison 
H. Eid to be U.S. circuit judge for the Tenth Circuit. Had I been 
present, I would have voted yea.
  Mr. President, I was necessarily absent for vote No. 259 on November 
2, 2017, on the confirmation of Allison H. Eid to be U.S. circuit judge 
for the Tenth Circuit. Had I been present, I would have voted yea.
  Mr. President, I was necessarily absent for vote No. 260 on November 
2, 2017, on the motion to invoke cloture on the nomination of Stephanos 
Bibas to be U.S. circuit judge for the Third Circuit. Had I been 
present, I would have voted nay.
  Mr. President, I was necessarily absent for vote No. 261 on November 
2, 2017, on the confirmation of Stephanos Bibas to be U.S. circuit 
judge for the Third Circuit. Had I been present, I would have voted 
nay.
  (At the request of Mr. Schumer, the following statement was ordered 
to be printed in the Record.)

                          ____________________



