

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 186 (Tuesday, November 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 186 (Tuesday, November 14, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7212-S7213]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                 RECOGNIZING KREHBIEL'S SALES & SERVICE

 Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, today I wish to take the opportunity 
to highlight the innovation and the creative spirit that small 
businesses in my home State of Idaho are known for. The small business 
that I am honoring today goes above and beyond when it comes to 
embodying that spirit. As chairman of the Senate Committee on Small 
Business and Entrepreneurship, it is my pleasure to recognize 
Krehbiel's Sales & Service as the Senate Small Business of the Month 
for November 2017. Known for their passion, friendliness, and 
dedication to providing unparalleled service, Krehbiel's is the 
definition of what it means to be a family-owned small business in 
America.
  Clint Krehbiel and his son Terry Krehbiel opened the doors to their 
vehicle dealership in Aberdeen, ID, in 1972 while Terry was still in 
high school. They have been proudly serving southeast Idaho for the 
past 45 years. The Krehbiel family specializes in off-road recreational 
and utility vehicles, along with various brands of lawn care equipment. 
In addition to these products, they have expanded into several other 
businesses, ranging from swimming pools to satellite sales and 
installation.
  Terry and his wife, Valerie, bought Clint's share of the business 
when he retired in 1996 and have made it their life's work to carry out 
the principles of honest and ethical business that Clint passed down 
over the years. For the past four-and-a-half decades, the family's 
commitment to their mission has been unwavering, and their loyalty to 
their customers is second to none. Perhaps the most incredible display 
of their dedication can be seen in the expansion of their business to 
serve customers hundreds of miles away while still maintaining a high 
level of customer service and a close-knit team of employees. At any 
time, you can walk in and see Karalee Krehbiel-Bonzon, Terry and 
Valerie's daughter, providing the exceptional customer service that she 
has been known for ever since she started working at her family's 
business in 2007. You will also see Valerie doing the bookkeeping by 
hand, as she has done every day since 1980. Another long-time employee 
is mechanic Charlie Wiebe. Charlie was hired in 1987 and is still with 
the business to this day. He has been an integral part of building and 
maintaining good relationships with customers and in training other 
mechanics like the team's newest member, Tyler Jones.
  Customer service is not the only thing that Krehbiel's is known for. 
With over 60 years of combined experience, their factory-trained 
technicians have built a reputation for high-quality, dependable 
repairs for all manner of recreational and utility vehicles. The 
company's reputation in this area brings in customers from miles around 
who have never bought a vehicle from the Krehbiels but who have built a 
bond of trust with their well-qualified mechanics.
  Aberdeen is considered to be ``off the beaten path'' by most people. 
Many say you need to have a reason to go there. Terry and Valerie, 
along with their employees, have given many people a reason to do just 
that. A continuous entrepreneurial spirit, quality customer service, 
and strong relationships with long-time employees are all principles 
possessed by the Krehbiels. I would like to extend my sincerest 
congratulations to Terry and Valerie Krehbiel and all of the employees 
of Krehbiel's Sales & Service for being selected as the November 2017 
Small Business of the Month. You make our great State proud, and I look 
forward to watching your continued growth and success.

[[Page S7213]]

  

                          ____________________



