

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 146 (Monday, September 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 146 (Monday, September 11, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S5085]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




      REMEMBERING SEPTEMBER 11 AND HURRICANE IRMA DISASTER RELIEF

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, today we opened the Senate with a 
moment of silence. We remember all those lost 16 years ago on September 
11, 2001, the day that changed our Nation in profound ways.
  It wrenched our hearts with grief. It opened our eyes to cruel 
threats from afar. But it could neither extinguish the basic decency 
that unites us as a people nor the common humanity that defines us as a 
nation.
  It could not stop first responders from rushing toward danger to save 
others. It could not stop Americans from donating to strangers in need 
or volunteering their time to help. It could not stop the people of our 
country from being who they are: kind, caring, compassionate.
  It is the same spirit we see again in response to Hurricane Harvey. 
It is the same spirit that is giving hope to those in the path of 
Hurricane Irma. Although the full extent of Irma's impact will not be 
known for some time, it is clear that this intense storm is causing 
widespread damage, and it is clear that the recovery will require a 
massive undertaking. Our thoughts are with those in the areas affected 
by Irma.
  We are again prepared to play our role in the recovery. Congress 
passed a critical downpayment on disaster relief last week. If more 
assistance is required due to Irma, we are ready to do what is needed.
  What is most important, I think, is the knowledge that the American 
people and our first responders will again be there to reach out to do 
whatever is needed to help. That is especially true on a day like 
today.
  We will never forget the thousands of innocent lives taken from us 16 
years ago. We will never forget the heroism of our first responders and 
the compassion of our neighbors, nor will we forget the thousands of 
men and women who have stood guard to protect us every day since.

                          ____________________



