

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 200 (Thursday, December 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 200 (Thursday, December 7, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7934-S7935]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I have 8 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


                      Committee on Armed Services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, December 7, 2017, at 10 a.m. to 
conduct a hearing.


                          Committee on Finance

  The Committee on Finance is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Thursday, December 7, 2017, at 2 p.m. in SD-215 to 
conduct a hearing on the nomination of Kevin K. McAleenan, of Hawaii, 
to be Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of 
Homeland Security.


           Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pension

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pension is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, December 7, 2017, 
at 10 a.m. in room SD-430 to conduct a hearing entitled 
``Implementation of the 21'' Century Cures Act: Progress and the Path 
Forward for Medical Innovation''.


                         Committee on Judiciary

  The Committee on Judiciary is authorized to meet during the session 
of the Senate on Thursday, December 7, 2017, at 10 a.m. in room SD-226 
to conduct a hearing on the following nominations: Leonard Steven 
Grasz, of Nebraska, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Eighth 
Circuit, James C. Ho, of Texas, to be United States Circuit Judge for 
the Fifth Circuit, Don R. Willett, of Texas, to be a Circuit Judge, 
United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, Terry A. Doughty, 
to be

[[Page S7935]]

United States District Judge for the Western District of Louisiana, 
Terry Fitzgerald Moorer, to be United States District Judge for the 
Southern District of Alabama, Mark Saalfield Norris, Sr., to be United 
States District Judge for the Western District of Tennessee, Claria 
Horn Boom, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern and 
Western Districts of Kentucky, John W. Broomes, to be United States 
District Judge for the District of Kansas, Rebecca Grady Jennings, to 
be United States District Judge for the Western District of Kentucky, 
and Robert Earl Wier, to be United States District Judge for the 
Eastern District of Kentucky.


                    Select Committee on Intelligence

  The Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, December 7, 2017, at 2 p.m. in room 
SH-219 to conduct a closed hearing.

                          ____________________



