

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 163 (Wednesday, October 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 163 (Wednesday, October 11, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H7921-H7922]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     NATIONAL FOREST PRODUCTS WEEK

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Thompson) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, next week is National 
Forest Products Week, which the Nation observes from October 15 through 
October 21. Each year since 1960, our Nation has celebrated the 
achievements of the forest product manufacturers and organizations 
throughout this country.
  The forest products industry is an integral part of U.S. 
manufacturing competitiveness and is among the top 10 manufacturing 
sector employers in 45 States. In the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, 
this industry is home to 265 wood products, paper, and packaging 
manufacturing facilities that make more than $16 million in products, 
annually, and contribute nearly $3 million to State and local economies 
through wages and compensation. More than 53,600 hardworking men and 
women in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania are employed by the forest 
products industry.
  Forest products continue to meet the evolving needs of people across 
the country and around the world. The forest products industry directly 
employs about 900,000 people and supports 2.4 million jobs. It is 4 
percent of the total U.S. manufacturing GDP. The industry meets a 
payroll of approximately $50 billion, annually, and manufactures almost 
$240 billion in products every year.
  One-third of the United States is forested--751 million acres. 
Privately owned forests supply 91 percent of the wood harvested in the 
United States; State and Tribal forests supply approximately 6 percent; 
and Federal forests supply only 2 percent of the wood used by the 
forest products industry. More than 56 percent of U.S. forests are 
privately owned, much of it by family forest owners who manage their 
lands to provide value to future generations.
  The industry has tremendous impact on our environment, too. A single 
tree can absorb more than 10 pounds of CO2 each year. In the 
United States, forests and forest products store enough carbon to 
offset approximately 12 percent of the Nation's CO2 
emissions.
  Forest products play a valuable role in the life of every American 
every day. Two-thirds of the Nation's drinking water comes from 
forests. From paper and packaging to wood products, tissue and other 
personal care items, these products are at the heart of modern life and 
a modern economy.
  Paper products allow us to communicate, teach, and learn. They 
provide safe packaging for goods and consumables, as well as personal 
hygiene and cleanliness. Wood products provide shelter and necessary 
components of daily life.
  Mr. Speaker, because the industry plays such an important role in the 
life of everyday Americans, in 1960, Congress designated the third week 
in October as National Forest Products Week. Next week, the country 
celebrates with events and advocacy campaigns to mark that occasion. 
Mr. Speaker, I wholeheartedly join those across the Nation who applaud 
the forest products industry for its many contributions.

[[Page H7922]]

  

                          ____________________



