

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 199 (Wednesday, December 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 199 (Wednesday, December 6, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7890]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         TRIBUTE TO MARGIE ALT

 Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, Margie Alt belongs on the Mount 
Rushmore of environmental advocates. For more than three decades, first 
at U.S. PRIG and then Environment America, Margie has been one of the 
leading generals in this monumental fight to combat climate change and 
protect our environment.
  It was Margie's vision that transformed U.S. PIRG and Environment 
America into the powerhouse environmental advocacy organization it is 
today, with more than 1 million members across the country. Because of 
her leadership, EA doesn't just stand for Environment America, it also 
stands for everywhere in America, because that is where she planted the 
seeds of grassroots change and political activation.
  As a tireless consumer protection champion, she has ensured that 
America's air and water is clean, our beaches and waterways are 
protected, and the public is safeguarded from toxic threats. She led 
groundbreaking work to organize the majority of State Renewable 
Electricity Standards in America, laying the foundation for the clean 
energy revolution that is now unstoppable. Her voice, passion, and 
strategic brilliance have been indispensable as the environmental 
movement she helped build takes on climate deniers and corporate 
polluters.
  For her entire career, Margie has stood up for the public's health, 
stood against the special interests who would despoil our lands, and 
stood for integrity and progress. She is truly Massachusetts' 
commitment to public service personified. America has been fortunate to 
have had Margie Alt's extraordinary leadership for these many years, 
and I have been fortunate to call her my friend.

                          ____________________



