

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 188 (Thursday, November 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 188 (Thursday, November 16, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7291]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
proceed to the en bloc consideration of the following nominations: 
Executive Calendar Nos. 491, 492, 493, 494, and all nominations placed 
on the Secretary's desk.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The clerk will report the nominations en bloc.
  The legislative clerk read the nominations of Rebecca Eliza Gonzales, 
of Texas, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of 
Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary 
of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Lesotho; Lisa A. 
Johnson, of Washington, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, 
Class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary 
of the United States of America to the Republic of Namibia; Irwin 
Steven Goldstein, of New York, to be Under Secretary of State for 
Public Diplomacy; Sean P. Lawler, of Maryland, to be Chief of Protocol, 
and to have the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service; PN1199 
FOREIGN SERVICE nominations (169) beginning Lisa-Felicia Afi Akorli, 
and ending Stephanie P. Wilson, which nominations were received by the 
Senate and appeared in the Congressional Record of November 1, 2017; 
and PN1200 FOREIGN SERVICE nominations (4) beginning John R. Bass, II, 
and ending Sung Y. Kim, which nominations were received by the Senate 
and appeared in the Congressional Record of November 1, 2017.
  Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to consider the nominations en bloc.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
vote on the nominations en bloc with no intervening action or debate; 
that if confirmed, the motions to reconsider be considered made and 
laid upon the table en bloc; that the President be immediately notified 
of the Senate's action; that no further motions be in order; and that 
any statements relating to the nominations be printed in the Record.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The question is, Will the Senate advise and consent to the Gonzales, 
Johnson, Goldstein, and Lawler nominations and all nominations placed 
on the Secretary's desk in the Foreign Service en bloc?
  The nominations were confirmed en bloc.

                          ____________________



