

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 166 (Monday, October 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 166 (Monday, October 16, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6398]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     TRIBUTE TO RONALD K. LORENTZEN

 Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, today I wish to honor Mr. Ronald K. 
Lorentzen, a dedicated public servant who has spent his career 
advocating for American workers and businesses. Mr. Lorentzen retired 
on June 30, 2017, after more than three decades of government service.
  Born in the blue-collar town of Ashtabula, OH--a great hometown, as 
my wife Connie can attest--Mr. Lorentzen's roots are evident in his 
life's work. Too often, especially in trade policy, representatives and 
policymakers fail to live up to the promises they have made to working 
families, but not Mr. Lorentzen. He never forgot where he came from, 
and he never forgot the workers who are too often left behind by our 
trade policy.
  In his roles at the International Trade Administration, he has been a 
leader in our government's efforts to combat unfair trade practices and 
hold countries that cheat the rules accountable. He served as lead 
negotiator for the U.S. and chairman of the Steel Committee at the 
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, where he worked 
to address steel overcapacity within the U.S. Market. While we know we 
have a lot more work to do to create a truly level playing field for 
our steel industry, his work helped shape a more fair international 
steel market for American companies.
  In addition, Mr. Lorentzen led U.S. delegations before the North 
American Steel Trade Committee, NASTC. He helped ensure the NASTC 
fulfilled its mission as a forum for NAFTA steel countries to build 
consensus and develop united positions on areas of common concern. A 
firm grasp of the facts and diplomatic skill made him a strong and 
effective advocate for U.S. manufacturers.
  Through his many roles in government, Mr. Lorentzen has served this 
country and its working families. He has stood up for workers in my 
State, and his efforts have helped save jobs. When we enforce our trade 
policies and hold accountable those who cheat the international trade 
system, we are ensuring our workers and businesses have access to a 
level playing field. Mr. Lorentzen has been a leader in that fight.
  Mr. Lorentzen will be remembered for his compassion, work ethic, and 
integrity. I ask my Senate colleges to join me in thanking him for his 
service and wishing him all the best on his retirement.

                          ____________________



