

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 193 (Tuesday, November 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 193 (Tuesday, November 28, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7362]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, I have 6 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


            Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs

  The Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban affairs is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, November 28, 2017, at 
9:45 a.m. to conduct a hearing on the following nominations: Brian D. 
Montgomery, of Texas, Robert Hunter Kurtz, of Virginia, and Suzanne 
Israel Tufts, of New York, each to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing 
and Urban Development; to be immediately followed by a hearing to 
examine the nomination of Jerome H. Powell, of Maryland, to be Chairman 
of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.


                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, November 28, 2017, at 10 a.m. to 
conduct a hearing on the following nominations: Christopher Ashley 
Ford, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary (International Security 
and Non-Proliferation), and Yleem D. S. Poblete, of Virginia, to be an 
Assistant Secretary (Verification and Compliance), both of the 
Department of State.


           Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, November 28, 2017, 
at 10 a.m. in room SD-430 to conduct a hearing entitled ``Reauthorizing 
the Higher Education Act: Examining Proposals to Simplify the Free 
Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA)''.


                       Committee on the Judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, November 28, 2017, at 10 a.m., in 
room SD-226, to conduct a hearing entitled ``S. 1241: Modernizing AML 
Laws to Combat Money Laundering and Terrorism Financing''.


                    Select Committee on Intelligence

  The Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, November 28, 2017, at 2:30 p.m., in 
room SH-219 to hold a closed hearing.


              Subcommittee on Clean Air and Nuclear Safety

  The Subcommittee on Clean Air and Nuclear Safety of the Committee on 
Energy and Natural Resources is authorized to meet during the session 
of the Senate on Tuesday, November 28, 2017, at 10 a.m., in room SD-406 
to conduct a hearing on the following nominations: Kenneth E. Allen, of 
Kentucky, A. D. Frazier, of Georgia, Jeffrey Smith, of Tennessee, and 
James R. Thompson III, of Alabama, each to be a Member of the Board of 
Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority.

                          ____________________



