

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 172 (Wednesday, October 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 172 (Wednesday, October 25, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6813]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                 TRIBUTE TO MASTER SERGEANT OWEN LAWLER

 Mrs. ERNST. Mr. President, today I wish to honor a living 
example of an American hero. MSG Owen Lawler has spent a lifetime in 
service, committing nearly three decades to defending U.S. national 
security at home and abroad.
  Owen began his military service as an infantryman with the Iowa 
National Guard in 1990 and attended basic training at Fort Benning in 
Georgia. He entered Active service in 1993 and served in the 2nd 
Infantry Division in Korea, among other roles. In 1999, Owen was 
selected for special forces training, and in 2001 he was assigned 5th 
Special Forces Group at Fort Campbell in Kentucky. Shortly after the 9/
11 attacks, Owen participated in the invasion of Afghanistan and went 
on to serve four more tours in Iraq. In 2009, Owen was assigned to the 
3rd Special Forces Group at Fort Bragg, where he served as a team 
sergeant for a special forces A-team. During his assignment as the 
senior sergeant on a special forces detachment, Owen led his team on 
three tours to Afghanistan until being seriously wounded. In 2013, Owen 
was selected to serve as first sergeant for the headquarters company of 
the advanced skills training battalion at Fort Bragg. After an 
extremely admirable career serving his country, Owen will retire on 
October 30, 2017.
  Owen received multiple awards during his 27 years with the Armed 
Forces, including the Bronze Star Medal, Meritorious Service Medal, 
Purple Heart, Army Commendation Medal, Armed Forces Expeditionary 
Medal, Good Conduct Medal, Afghanistan Campaign Medal, Iraq Campaign 
Medal, Global War on Terrorism Expeditionary Medal, Global War on 
Terrorism Service Medal, and Korea Service Medal.
  I ask my colleagues to join me as I proudly recognize the service and 
the sacrifice of MSG Owen Lawler, a dear friend, patriot, and American 
hero.

                          ____________________



