

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 164 (Thursday, October 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 164 (Thursday, October 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H8014]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         HONORING BRIAN McQUEEN

  (Ms. TENNEY asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend her remarks.)
  Ms. TENNEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Brian McQueen, a 
constituent and a dear friend from the 22nd District who has dedicated 
his life to public service.
  For 34 years, Brian worked in the Whitesboro Central School 
District--as a teacher for 19 years and as a principal thereafter. 
Brian also took his compassion for our community to the Whitesboro 
Volunteer Fire Department, where he served as fire chief from 1999 to 
2002. He currently serves as a lieutenant and safety officer, in 
addition to serving on the board of directors of the Firemen's 
Association of the State of New York.
  In 2013, Brian was diagnosed with B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Brian 
joined members of the Barneveld Fire Department to found the Believe 
271, a foundation to assist volunteer firefighters and EMTs who are 
battling cancer and life-threatening diseases. Since that day, Believe 
271 has provided financial and emotional support to firefighters and 
their families throughout Oneida and Herkimer Counties.
  With increased exposure to smoke and toxins, firefighters are at a 
much higher risk of contracting cancer. Brian's tireless advocacy is a 
testament to his dedication and his compassion for all volunteer 
firefighters who risk their lives to keep our communities safe, and it 
is an honor to recognize my friend and a great community partner, Brian 
McQueen, today.

                          ____________________



