

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 204 (Thursday, December 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 204 (Thursday, December 14, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S8044]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        TRIBUTE TO BOB BURNISON

 Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this week, I have the distinct 
honor of recognizing Bob Burnison of Richland County for many years of 
volunteer service and leadership in his local community. Bob has a long 
history of supporting charitable activities in northeastern Montana. 
His efforts have inspired others to volunteer their time and 
strengthened the spirit of giving. When folks like Bob come together to 
help others, it brightens the holiday season for everyone.
  This Christmas is the 39th year that Bob has been involved with 
collecting donations for the Salvation Army. Over the years, Bob has 
organized scores of volunteers to help make each giving season a 
success. This commitment to helping others is commendable considering 
Bob's professional obligations as the undersheriff of Richland County. 
He has given over four decades of service in law enforcement. The vast 
majority of the donations Bob has helped generate have remained in the 
local community to help offset essential living costs for those in 
need. Neighbors helping neighbors is a cornerstone for sustaining 
healthy communities, and local leaders like Bob are often a catalyst 
for this type of activity.
  With nearly four decades of volunteer service and over four decades 
of public service, Bob has done a good job leading by example. 
Organizations across Richland County have pitched in to make sure the 
spirit of giving remains strong, and the next generation of volunteers 
are finding the joy that comes with helping others. Merry Christmas, 
Bob, and thank you for preserving the charitable traditions in your 
community.

                          ____________________



