

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 160 (Thursday, October 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 160 (Thursday, October 5, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6350]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       CONFIRMATION OF ERIC HARGAN

  Ms. CORTEZ MASTO. Mr. President, I had expected to be able to 
vote on the confirmation of Mr. Eric Hargan, to be Deputy Secretary for 
Health and Human Service, HHS. Instead, I am in Las Vegas to grieve 
with and assist my fellow Nevadans in the aftermath of the worst mass 
shooting in modern American history.
   On the question of Mr. Hargan's nomination, I want to make my 
opposition to his confirmation clear. I do not believe Mr. Hargan to be 
qualified to be a leading member of HHS. This decision is based on his 
prior experience, his work and statements opposing the Affordable Care 
Act, as well as his statements regarding the extension of the State 
Children's Health Insurance Program. Deputy Secretary Eric Hargan would 
be the highest ranking appointee at HHS, making him responsible for 
implementing and enforcing the Affordable Care Act, ACA, going forward. 
Considering the fact that the administration has repeatedly and 
consistently sought to undermine the ACA, I fear that someone with Mr. 
Hargan's views will only aid and abet this reckless game the 
administration is playing with Americans' healthcare.
   I hope that Mr. Hargan will surpass my expectations and serve this 
country well as Deputy Secretary at HHS. The role of HHS Deputy 
Secretary in implementing and administering the efforts of 
strengthening our healthcare system is too important for any other 
result. I believe strongly that Americans deserve affordable and 
accessible healthcare coverage, and I hope Mr. Hargan's actions as 
Deputy Director show that he agrees. However, I could not in good 
conscience vote to confirm someone about whom I have so many concerns. 
Thank you.

                          ____________________



