

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 194 (Wednesday, November 29, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 194 (Wednesday, November 29, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7402-S7403]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                            MORNING BUSINESS

                                 ______
                                 

                        NATIONAL ADOPTION MONTH

  Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I rise to commemorate November as 
National Adoption Month. During this month, we are reminded of the 
importance of adoption to so many families and children in Iowa and all 
across the country. As Americans are celebrating the season of 
Thanksgiving with family and friends, adoptive families are celebrating 
with their new families, giving thanks for the joy of somebody they 
adopted.
  Since the first recognition of National Adoption Day 16, 17 years 
ago, nearly 65,000 kids have been adopted on National Adoption Day, 
which is always celebrated on the Saturday before Thanksgiving each 
year. In 2016 alone, over 4,700 adoptions were finalized on National 
Adoption Day.
  National Adoption Month is certainly a time to celebrate the joys of 
a new family; however, it is also a reminder of the obstacles that so 
many children may face. Nationally, there are over 425,000 children in 
foster care. Over 100,000 of these children are hoping to be adopted. 
In Iowa, there are about 1,000 kids in foster care who are eligible for 
adoption.
  This year, the special focus of National Adoption Month is older 
youth waiting to be adopted. Teenagers, unfortunately, face more 
difficulty in being adopted than do younger children.
  As cofounder and cochair of the Senate Caucus on Foster Youth, I have 
had the chance to hear directly from teenagers in foster care. In fact, 
our Senate Caucus on Foster Youth has a couple, three seminars every 
year just to listen to older youth in the foster care system, 
particularly those who are about ready to age out. These young people 
tell me that, more than anything else, they want a loving family. They 
tell me that they need families and that nobody is too old to be 
adopted. The support that parents provide to teens is critical to 
navigating the transition to adulthood--from making decisions about 
higher education to finding a job or buying a car. A loving family 
continually provides the support teens need to succeed.

[[Page S7403]]

  Congress must continue to work toward policies that help make 
adoption a reality for our foster youth. We must work to ensure that 
all children, no matter their circumstances, have permanent, loving 
homes and consistent, caring adults in their lives. I am glad that the 
Senate preserved the adoption tax credit in the tax reform legislation, 
and I am hopeful that Congress will continue to work on policy that 
promotes adoption and improves the lives of those in foster care.
  As National Adoption Month comes to an end tomorrow, I thank all of 
those who work to improve the lives of children. I thank advocates for 
children who tirelessly work to make adoption possible, and I thank 
adoptive parents and families for opening their hearts and homes.

                          ____________________



