

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 209 (Thursday, December 21, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 209 (Thursday, December 21, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S8251-S8252]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

              100TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE HYDRAULIC INSTITUTE

 Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize the 
100th anniversary of the Hydraulic Institute and pay tribute to the 
exceptional role that pump manufacturers have played in improving the 
delivery of water to American homes, American industry, and American 
agriculture over the past century. Today pump systems touch the lives 
of every American, and the Hydraulic Institute plays a central role in 
developing the policies and standards needed for safe, reliable, and 
efficient pump operations.
  On April 18, 1917, the Nation's leading pump manufacturers met in the 
La Salle Hotel in Chicago for the purpose of forming a trade 
association that would ``promote friendship and cooperation among 
manufacturers in improving overall pump performance.'' Since this 
auspicious gathering of pump manufacturers, government agencies have 
relied on the Hydraulic Institute to provide the technical expertise 
required to set pump standards that reflect the evolving priorities of 
society.
  In recent years, energy efficiency has emerged as a national 
priority, and the Hydraulic Institute has worked closely with the U.S. 
Department of Energy to improve the efficiency of pumping systems. 
These systems now account for over 20 percent of domestic electrical 
energy use and the standards, laboratory testing, and labeling advanced 
by the Hydraulic Institute will ultimately save consumers and 
businesses billions of dollars.
  Pumping systems protect our communities from flooding and fires, 
deliver drinking water to our homes, irrigate our farms, and bring 
water and fuel to American manufacturers. The Hydraulic Institute works 
closely with Congress to ensure that the laws governing energy, water, 
and infrastructure reflect the prominence of pumping systems in the 
management of these essential resources. I would like to specifically 
applaud the Hydraulic Institute for bringing an important perspective 
to congressional deliberations on how to thoughtfully increase 
investment in our Nation's critical water infrastructure.

[[Page S8252]]

  It is with sincere admiration that I stand today to acknowledge the 
100th anniversary of the Hydraulic Institute and to wish this 
exceptional organization continued success in developing policies and 
advancing standards that improve the lives of every American.

                          ____________________



