

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 176 (Tuesday, October 31, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 176 (Tuesday, October 31, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H8280]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  MADE IN SOUTH CAROLINA CREATES JOBS

  (Mr. WILSON of South Carolina asked and was given permission to 
address the House for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I am grateful to recognize 
the statewide consortium of ten institutions of higher education in 
South Carolina for receiving a 5-year Research Infrastructure 
Improvement Track-1 grant from the National Science Foundation's 
Established Program to Stimulate Competitive Research. This grant led 
to the creation of the Materials, Assembly, and Design Excellence in 
South Carolina initiative--or MADE in South Carolina--to create jobs.
  This grant encourages small businesses to grow by providing seed 
money through the Small Business Innovation Research and Small Business 
Technology Transfer awards to businesses and materials-related 
projects. This consortium will further foster research and development 
in the State by focusing on advanced materials discovery and 
optimization efforts that are in high demand. MADE in South Carolina 
will boost the manufacturing and materials science workforce by adding 
new undergraduate degree programs and expanding current coursework, 
which will provide and increase the skilled-labor workforce.
  As a proponent of creating jobs and encouraging manufacturing across 
South Carolina, I look forward to seeing these higher education 
institutions utilizing the grant to stimulate small business growth, 
jobs, and valuable research.
  In conclusion, God bless our troops, and we will never forget 
September the 11th in the global war on terrorism.

                          ____________________



