

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 196 (Friday, December 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 196 (Friday, December 1, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7717-S7719]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 264

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of S. 264, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow charitable organizations to make 
statements relating to political campaigns if such statements are made 
in ordinary course of carrying out its tax exempt purpose.


                                 S. 654

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the names of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Warner) and the Senator from Michigan (Ms. Stabenow) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 654, a bill to revise section 48 of title 18, United 
States Code, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 662

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the name of the Senator from 
California (Ms. Harris) was added as a cosponsor of S. 662, a bill to 
provide incentives for hate crime reporting, grants for State-run hate 
crime hotlines, a Federal private right of action for victims of hate 
crimes, and additional penalties for individuals convicted under the 
Matthew Shephard and James Byrd, Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act.


                                 S. 915

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the names of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson), the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. Hirono), the Senator from 
Rhode Island (Mr. Whitehouse), the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. 
Reed), the Senator from Vermont (Mr. Leahy) and the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) were added as cosponsors of S. 915, a bill 
to amend title II of the Social Security Act to repeal the Government 
pension offset and windfall elimination provisions.


                                 S. 946

  At the request of Mr. Flake, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 946, a bill to require the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to hire additional Veterans Justice 
Outreach Specialists to provide treatment court services to justice-
involved veterans, and for other purposes.

[[Page S7718]]

  



                                S. 1425

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1425, a bill 
to reauthorize the Integrated Coastal and Ocean Observation System Act 
of 2009, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1827

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mrs. Fischer) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1827, a bill to extend 
funding for the Children's Health Insurance Program, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1829

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mrs. Fischer) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1829, a bill to amend 
title V of the Social Security Act to extend the Maternal, Infant, and 
Early Childhood Home Visiting Program.


                                S. 1830

  At the request of Mr. Paul, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mrs. 
Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1830, a bill to strengthen 
employee cost savings suggestions programs within the Federal 
Government.


                                S. 1838

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from California 
(Ms. Harris) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1838, a bill to repeal the 
authority under the National Labor Relations Act for States to enact 
laws prohibiting agreements requiring membership in a labor 
organization as a condition of employment, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1871

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1871, a bill to amend 
title 38, United States Code, to clarify the role of podiatrists in the 
Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2070

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the names of the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein) and the Senator from Vermont (Mr. Leahy) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 2070, a bill to amend the Violent Crime 
Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994, to reauthorize the Missing 
Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program, and to promote initiatives 
that will reduce the risk of injury and death relating to the wandering 
characteristics of some children with autism.


                                S. 2088

  At the request of Mrs. Fischer, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Ms. Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2088, a bill to amend title 
10, United States Code, to provide for the issuance of the Gold Star 
Installation Access Card to the surviving spouse, dependent children, 
and other next of kin of a member of the Armed Forces who dies while 
serving on certain active or reserve duty, to ensure that a remarried 
surviving spouse with dependent children of the deceased member remains 
eligible for installation benefits to which the surviving spouse was 
previously eligible, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2147

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2147, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to create a Pension Rehabilitation Trust 
Fund to establish a Pension Rehabilitation Administration within the 
Department of the Treasury to make loans to multiemployer defined 
benefit plans, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2159

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the names of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs. 
Shaheen) were added as cosponsors of S. 2159, a bill to require covered 
harassment and covered discrimination awareness and prevention training 
for Members, officers, employees, interns, fellows, and detailees of 
Congress within 30 days of employment and annually thereafter, to 
require a biennial climate survey of Congress, to amend the enforcement 
process under the Office of Congressional Workplace Rights for covered 
harassment and covered discrimination complaints, and for other 
purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1622

  At the request of Mr. Paul, the names of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Cassidy) and the Senator from Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) were added 
as cosponsors of amendment No. 1622 intended to be proposed to H.R. 1, 
to provide for reconciliation pursuant to titles II and V of the 
concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2018.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1623

  At the request of Mr. Paul, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cruz) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 1623 intended to be 
proposed to H.R. 1, to provide for reconciliation pursuant to titles II 
and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2018.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1640

  At the request of Mr. Gardner, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Isakson) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 1640 intended 
to be proposed to H.R. 1, to provide for reconciliation pursuant to 
titles II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal 
year 2018.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1642

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the names of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mr. Sasse) and the Senator from Louisiana (Mr. Kennedy) were added as 
cosponsors of amendment No. 1642 intended to be proposed to H.R. 1, to 
provide for reconciliation pursuant to titles II and V of the 
concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2018.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1665

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the names of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar), the Senator from Illinois (Mr. Durbin) and 
the Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) were added as cosponsors 
of amendment No. 1665 intended to be proposed to H.R. 1, to provide for 
reconciliation pursuant to titles II and V of the concurrent resolution 
on the budget for fiscal year 2018.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1675

  At the request of Mr. Whitehouse, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 
1675 intended to be proposed to H.R. 1, to provide for reconciliation 
pursuant to titles II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget 
for fiscal year 2018.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1711

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mr. Blunt) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 1711 intended to 
be proposed to H.R. 1, to provide for reconciliation pursuant to titles 
II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 
2018.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1717

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 
1717 proposed to H.R. 1, to provide for reconciliation pursuant to 
titles II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal 
year 2018.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1724

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, her name was added as a cosponsor of 
amendment No. 1724 intended to be proposed to H.R. 1, to provide for 
reconciliation pursuant to titles II and V of the concurrent resolution 
on the budget for fiscal year 2018.
  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Isakson), the Senator from Alabama (Mr. Shelby), the Senator from 
Tennessee (Mr. Alexander), the Senator from South Dakota (Mr. Rounds) 
and the Senator from Colorado (Mr. Gardner) were added as cosponsors of 
amendment No. 1724 intended to be proposed to H.R. 1, supra.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1735

  At the request of Mr. Rounds, the names of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mr. Blunt) and the Senator from Louisiana (Mr. Kennedy) were added as 
cosponsors of amendment No. 1735 intended to be proposed to H.R. 1, to 
provide for reconciliation pursuant to titles II and V of the 
concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2018.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1736

  At the request of Mr. Inhofe, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Lankford) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 1736 intended 
to be proposed to H.R. 1, to provide for reconciliation pursuant to 
titles II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal 
year 2018.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1738

  At the request of Mr. Alexander, the name of the Senator from Texas 
(Mr.

[[Page S7719]]

Cruz) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 1738 intended to be 
proposed to H.R. 1, to provide for reconciliation pursuant to titles II 
and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2018.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1739

  At the request of Mr. Udall, the names of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein) and the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) were 
added as cosponsors of amendment No. 1739 intended to be proposed to 
H.R. 1, to provide for reconciliation pursuant to titles II and V of 
the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2018.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1758

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Idaho 
(Mr. Risch) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 1758 intended to 
be proposed to H.R. 1, to provide for reconciliation pursuant to titles 
II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 
2018.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1760

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 1760 intended 
to be proposed to H.R. 1, to provide for reconciliation pursuant to 
titles II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal 
year 2018.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1765

  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the name of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Burr) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 1765 
intended to be proposed to H.R. 1, to provide for reconciliation 
pursuant to titles II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget 
for fiscal year 2018.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1774

  At the request of Mr. Udall, the name of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Heinrich) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 1774 intended 
to be proposed to H.R. 1, to provide for reconciliation pursuant to 
titles II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal 
year 2018.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1790

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 
1790 intended to be proposed to H.R. 1, to provide for reconciliation 
pursuant to titles II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget 
for fiscal year 2018.

                          ____________________



