

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 200 (Thursday, December 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 200 (Thursday, December 7, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7926-S7927]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      TRIBUTE TO DAVE COURVOISIER

 Mr. HELLER. Mr. President, today I wish to congratulate Mr. 
Dave Courvoisier on his retirement from KLAS news station in Las Vegas. 
I am honored to recognize his dedication to reporting to the citizens 
of southern Nevada for 32 years, as well as his commitment to the 
communities he has served throughout his career.
  A native midwesterner, Dave received both his bachelor's and master's 
degrees from the University of Illinois. He began his career at KCCC 
Radio in Carlsbad, NM, and then carried his talents to Grand Junction, 
CO, where he jumpstarted his television career at KJCT. Dave worked for 
various news outlets in Indiana, Missouri, and North

[[Page S7927]]

Carolina before settling in Las Vegas with his wife in 1985.
  Mr. Courvoisier quickly established himself as a tactful and 
passionate reporter for KVBC in Las Vegas. His numerous reports related 
to the issues of disadvantaged children yielded both national and local 
awards. In particular, Mr. Courvoisier is well-known for his 
involvement with Wednesday's Child, an adoption program, and he 
distinguished himself with his news feature series focused on helping 
foster children find permanent homes. His commitment to this issue is 
also reflected in his personal life; he established a new chapter of 
Big Brothers, Big Sisters.
  While Dave has led an incredibly successful reporting career, he 
believes his most important work to be raising his three daughters with 
his wife. As Nevada's senior Senator, I want to thank Mr. Courvoisier 
for his dedication to keeping the people of southern Nevada informed. I 
offer him the very best in his retirement and my well wishes for many 
successful and fulfilling years to come.

                          ____________________



