

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 209 (Thursday, December 21, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 209 (Thursday, December 21, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H10348]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               HONORING CAPTAIN F.W. ``ROCCO'' MONTESANO

  (Mr. FARENTHOLD asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. FARENTHOLD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor a Navy veteran and 
retiring Executive Director of the USS Lexington Museum on the Bay, 
Captain F.W. ``Rocco'' Montesano.
  Following his graduation from the Naval Academy, Rocco served the 
U.S. Navy in numerous positions over his 30-year career, completing 
more than 5,500 flight hours and 900 carrier landings. From serving as 
commanding officer in aircraft squadrons to manpower director for the 
Chief of Naval Air Training, Captain Montesano has always shown his 
dedication and commitment to our country.
  His bravery and service earned him many awards, including two Legion 
of Merit Medals, two Meritorious Service Medals, a Navy and Marine 
Corps Commendation Medal, and five Sea Service Ribbons, amongst many 
others.
  His service, however, did not stop when he retired from the Navy. In 
1998, Captain Montesano became the Executive Director of the USS 
Lexington Museum on the Bay in Corpus Christi, where he served for 19 
years.
  Throughout his time as Executive Director, Rocco brought innovation 
and creativity to his position and did a phenomenal job maintaining and 
improving the museum that sits on Corpus Christi Bay. Through his 
patriotism, loyalty, and service, he holds true to the values of an 
American citizen and he inspires us all.
  I thank Rocco for his commitment to our Nation. On behalf of everyone 
in the 27th Congressional District of Texas, I wish him a happy 
retirement.

                          ____________________



