

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 150 (Monday, September 18, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 150 (Monday, September 18, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S5800]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

       100TH ANNIVERSARY OF MOUNT AIRY MISSIONARY BAPTIST CHURCH

 Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, today I stand to honor the 100th 
anniversary of the Mount Airy Missionary Baptist Church, located on 
Maffitt Avenue in St. Louis, MO. This impressive 100th anniversary 
milestone speaks volumes about the tremendous impact Mount Airy Church 
has had on its congregation, community, and the broader St. Louis 
community.
  First organized as a prayer band on August 8, 1917, Mount Airy has 
had many homes throughout its 100-year history. Over its history, while 
its base home address might have changed, the Mount Airy membership and 
effect of its faith leadership grew.
  Today Mount Airy is a thriving house of worship led by pastor 
Reverend Charles J. Brown, Sr. Pastor Brown received an honorary 
doctorate degree of divinity from Western Bible College, becoming the 
first pastor in the history of Mount Airy Missionary Baptist Church to 
receive an honorary degree.
  Over the years, the church has expanded its ministries to engage more 
people and positively influence thousands of lives. Mount Airy Church 
has been innovative and compassionate in finding ways to reach their 
congregation and the community. The commitment of Pastor Brown, all of 
Mount Airy Missionary Baptist Church leadership, and its entire 
congregation to studying the word of God and faithfully living it sets 
an incredible example for all Missourians.
  Congratulations again to all connected with Mount Airy Missionary 
Baptist Church on its 100-year anniversary.

                          ____________________



