

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 207 (Tuesday, December 19, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 207 (Tuesday, December 19, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S8146]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      TRIBUTE TO R. ANDREW MURRAY

  Mr. TILLIS. Madam President, I congratulate Andrew Murray on his 
investiture as the U.S. Attorney for the Western District of North 
Carolina.
  Andrew graduated magna cum laude from the University of North 
Carolina at Charlotte with a bachelor of science in political science 
and received his juris doctor from the University of North Carolina 
School of Law.
  Throughout his career, Andrew has dedicated himself to public service 
and leadership. Andrew enlisted in the U.S. Coast Guard in 1980 and 
retired in 2015, serving his country faithfully for 35 years. During 
his service, he earned a number of decorations, including the Coast 
Guard Meritorious Service Medal, three Coast Guard Commendation Medals, 
the Coast Guard Achievement Medal, and the Coast Guard 9/11 Service 
Medal.
  Andrew began his legal career at the Mecklenburg County District 
Attorney's Office as an assistant district attorney. Later, he worked 
in private practice before being elected to serve as the district 
attorney of Mecklenburg County, North Carolina's largest prosecutorial 
district. During his tenure as district attorney, he led the office 
with the utmost distinction and is highly respected for his leadership.
  I am proud that Andrew is willing to continue serving western North 
Carolina in a new role as U.S. Attorney. Western North Carolina is 
lucky to have such an experienced prosecutor and effective leader to 
command this important office. He is a dedicated public servant whose 
extensive prosecutorial experience and relationships with law 
enforcement will bolster the mission of the Department of Justice and 
promote public safety.
  Senator Burr and I proudly recommended Andrew to President Trump, and 
I know that he will lead the U.S. Attorney's Office with honor.

                          ____________________



