

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 193 (Tuesday, November 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 193 (Tuesday, November 28, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H9439-H9440]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




           REMEMBERING THE LIFE OF POLICE OFFICER BRIAN SHAW

  (Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania asked and was given permission 
to address the House for 1 minute and to revise and extend his 
remarks.)
  Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
inform my colleagues of the death of Brian Shaw, a brave, young police 
officer who was recently killed in the line of duty in my district on 
November 17.
  What began as a routine traffic stop turned into a pursuit on foot 
and an exchange of gunfire that left Officer Shaw mortally wounded.
  Brian was just 25 years old when he was murdered doing the job he 
loved. He was a universally loved and respected member of his 
community. He was well liked and respected by his fellow officers. His 
life was brutally cut short, but there is no denying it was a life well 
lived.
  Brian was a graduate of Burrell High School, Slippery Rock 
University, and the Allegheny County Police Training Academy.
  He served as a police officer in Cheswick, Frazer, and Springdale 
Township before joining the New Kensington Police Department this June.

[[Page H9440]]

  Friends have said that Brian always wanted to be a police officer. 
Brian said that he became a police officer because he wanted to make a 
difference. I want my colleagues and the whole Nation to know that he 
did.
  Throughout his service as a police officer, he upheld the law, and he 
served the communities with dedication, compassion, and a warm smile. 
He knew the risks that come with being a law enforcement officer, and 
he accepted them willingly.
  I had the honor of attending the memorial service for Officer Shaw at 
Mount St. Peter Church last week. The turnout was amazing. The church 
was packed to the rafters. Thousands more stood outside, including more 
than 1,000 police officers. I can't think of a more tangible expression 
of respect and appreciation for Officer Shaw's service and his 
sacrifice.
  In closing, I want to express my deepest sympathy to Officer Shaw's 
parents, Lisa and Stephan; his brother, Steffan; his fellow police 
officers; his family; and his friends.

                          ____________________



