

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 200 (Thursday, December 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 200 (Thursday, December 7, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9715]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





                          I WILL NOT BE MOVED

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. Al Green) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. AL GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, once again, I enjoy the 
preeminent privilege of speaking from the well of the House of 
Representatives. I am so honored to have this great opportunity.
  Today, Mr. Speaker, I rise to acknowledge that, yesterday, a historic 
event took place right here in this House. Mr. Speaker, yesterday, 58 
persons voted to impeach Donald John Trump, President of the United 
States of America. Mr. Speaker, that is 57 more than a good many people 
anticipated.
  Mr. Speaker, there are some who would have the event be nothing more 
than a footnote in history. Some would just have it be a nonevent. But, 
Mr. Speaker, it won't happen. It will not be just a footnote. It won't 
be a nonevent.
  Mr. Speaker, this event will be looked upon by scholars as they look 
through time to understand what happened at this time. They will ponder 
it and find that those 58 persons were the first 58 to vote to impeach 
Donald John Trump--the first 58, not the last 58, Mr. Speaker. There 
will be another opportunity for us to remove Donald John Trump from the 
Presidency.
  Mr. Speaker, when I took my vote yesterday, I voted for a lot of 
constituents. I just want to single out a few.
  I voted for the man who stood on a corner under a bridge, cup in his 
hand, asking for help. When he saw me, he had a big smile on his face. 
I voted for him because his words to me, paraphrasing, were: I am so 
proud of what you are doing with that impeachment. This is a man 
standing in the streets of life, who sleeps in the streets of life.
  I voted for the person who was on a serving line at a cafeteria--I 
eat in cafeterias quite regularly--who said: Right on; keep on.
  I voted for the woman who saw me at church and said: Al Green, you 
are a troublemaker, but don't you stop until you impeach Trump.
  Mr. Speaker, I voted for people who would never have this preeminent 
privilege that they have accorded me to stand here in the well of the 
Congress. I am not going to let them down, Mr. Speaker.
  This was round one. I assure you, Mr. Speaker, that I don't give out, 
I don't give up, and I don't give in. I know that I am on the right 
side of righteousness, and I am going to stay there.
  Here is where I stand. I will not be moved.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Members are reminded to refrain from 
engaging in personalities toward the President.

                          ____________________



