

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 169 (Thursday, October 19, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 169 (Thursday, October 19, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6660-S6700]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           TEXT OF AMENDMENTS

  SA 1399. Mr. HELLER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:


[[Page S6661]]


  

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO TAX 
                   SIMPLIFICATION.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     reforming Federal tax laws, which may include simplifying our 
     existing tax laws and providing other job-creating relief, by 
     the amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1400. Mr. UDALL (for himself, Mr. Heinrich, Ms. Baldwin, and Ms. 
Heitkamp) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to amendment 
SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 
71, establishing the congressional budget for the United States 
Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate 
budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered 
to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO THE 
                   DEPLOYMENT OF UNIVERSAL BROADBAND TO EVERY 
                   HOME, COMMUNITY ANCHOR INSTITUTION, AND SMALL 
                   BUSINESS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to the 
     deployment of universal broadband to every home, community 
     anchor institution, and small business by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1401. Ms. CANTWELL submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO EXPANDING 
                   THE BASIC HEALTH PROGRAM AS A PUBLIC OPTION 
                   THAT COVERS MORE AMERICANS AT LOWER COST.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to the 
     basic health program, which may include expanding the basic 
     health program under section 1331 of the Patient Protection 
     and Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 18051) as a public option 
     to lower health care costs for Americans in the individual 
     health insurance market, by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1402. Mr. BENNET submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   ADDRESSING CLIMATE CHANGE.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     strengthening national security and promoting economic growth 
     and public health by addressing human-induced climate change 
     through increased use of clean energy and energy efficiency 
     technologies to stabilize and reduce United States greenhouse 
     gas emissions while providing adequate resources to support 
     existing coal communities by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1403. Mr. BENNET submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO STRATEGIC 
                   PETROLEUM RESERVE DRAWDOWN AND SALE.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     compliance with the reconciliation instructions for the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate under 
     section 2001, which may include the drawdown and sale of 
     crude oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve established 
     under part B of title I of the Energy Policy and Conservation 
     Act (42 U.S.C. 6231 et seq.) during fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027, by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1404. Mr. PAUL proposed an amendment to amendment SA 1116 proposed 
by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing 
the congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal 
year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; as follows:

       On page 47, line 6, strike ``$1,500,000,000,000'' and 
     insert ``$2,500,000,000,000''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1405. Mrs. MURRAY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 4, line 25, increase the amount by $14,873,000,000.
       On page 5, line 1, increase the amount by $17,413,000,000.
       On page 5, line 2, increase the amount by $19,224,000,000.
       On page 5, line 3, increase the amount by $21,137,000,000.
       On page 5, line 4, increase the amount by $24,058,000,000.
       On page 5, line 5, increase the amount by $25,233,000,000.
       On page 5, line 6, increase the amount by $26,481,000,000.
       On page 5, line 7, increase the amount by $27,809,000,000.
       On page 5, line 8, increase the amount by $29,152,000,000.
       On page 5, line 9, increase the amount by $30,588,000,000.
       On page 5, line 13, increase the amount by $5,196,000,000.
       On page 5, line 14, increase the amount by $9,920,000,000.
       On page 5, line 15, increase the amount by $13,596,000,000.
       On page 5, line 16, increase the amount by $16,586,000,000.
       On page 5, line 17, increase the amount by $19,403,000,000.
       On page 5, line 18, increase the amount by $21,654,000,000.
       On page 5, line 19, increase the amount by $23,494,000,000.
       On page 5, line 20, increase the amount by $25,084,000,000.
       On page 5, line 21, increase the amount by $26,581,000,000.
       On page 5, line 22, increase the amount by $28,071,000,000.
       On page 6, line 1, increase the amount by $5,196,000,000.
       On page 6, line 2, increase the amount by $9,920,000,000.
       On page 6, line 3, increase the amount by $13,596,000,000.
       On page 6, line 4, increase the amount by $16,586,000,000.
       On page 6, line 5, increase the amount by $19,403,000,000.
       On page 6, line 6, increase the amount by $21,654,000,000.
       On page 6, line 7, increase the amount by $23,494,000,000.
       On page 6, line 8, increase the amount by $25,084,000,000.
       On page 6, line 9, increase the amount by $26,581,000,000.

[[Page S6662]]

       On page 6, line 10, increase the amount by $28,071,000,000.
       On page 6, line 15, increase the amount by $5,196,000,000.
       On page 6, line 16, increase the amount by $15,116,000,000.
       On page 6, line 17, increase the amount by $28,712,000,000.
       On page 6, line 18, increase the amount by $45,298,000,000.
       On page 6, line 19, increase the amount by $64,701,000,000.
       On page 6, line 20, increase the amount by $86,355,000,000.
       On page 6, line 21, increase the amount by 
     $109,849,000,000.
       On page 6, line 22, increase the amount by 
     $134,933,000,000.
       On page 6, line 23, increase the amount by 
     $161,514,000,000.
       On page 6, line 24, increase the amount by 
     $189,585,000,000.
       On page 7, line 3, increase the amount by $5,196,000,000.
       On page 7, line 4, increase the amount by $15,116,000,000.
       On page 7, line 5, increase the amount by $28,712,000,000.
       On page 7, line 6, increase the amount by $45,298,000,000.
       On page 7, line 7, increase the amount by $64,701,000,000.
       On page 7, line 8, increase the amount by $86,355,000,000.
       On page 7, line 9, increase the amount by $109,849,000,000.
       On page 7, line 10, increase the amount by 
     $134,933,000,000.
       On page 7, line 11, increase the amount by 
     $161,514,000,000.
       On page 7, line 12, increase the amount by 
     $189,585,000,000.
       On page 9, line 12, increase the amount by $14,843,000,000.
       On page 9, line 13, increase the amount by $5,165,000,000.
       On page 9, line 16, increase the amount by $17,206,000,000.
       On page 9, line 17, increase the amount by $9,713,000,000.
       On page 9, line 20, increase the amount by $18,670,000,000.
       On page 9, line 21, increase the amount by $13,042,000,000.
       On page 9, line 24, increase the amount by $20,106,000,000.
       On page 9, line 25, increase the amount by $15,555,000,000.
       On page 10, line 3, increase the amount by $22,449,000,000.
       On page 10, line 4, increase the amount by $17,795,000,000.
       On page 10, line 7, increase the amount by $22,953,000,000.
       On page 10, line 8, increase the amount by $19,373,000,000.
       On page 10, line 11, increase the amount by 
     $23,453,000,000.
       On page 10, line 12, increase the amount by 
     $20,465,000,000.
       On page 10, line 15, increase the amount by 
     $23,982,000,000.
       On page 10, line 16, increase the amount by 
     $21,258,000,000.
       On page 10, line 19, increase the amount by 
     $24,480,000,000.
       On page 10, line 20, increase the amount by 
     $21,909,000,000.
       On page 10, line 23, increase the amount by 
     $25,024,000,000.
       On page 10, line 24, increase the amount by 
     $22,507,000,000.
       On page 36, line 2, increase the amount by $30,000,000.
       On page 36, line 3, increase the amount by $30,000,000.
       On page 36, line 6, increase the amount by $207,000,000.
       On page 36, line 7, increase the amount by $207,000,000.
       On page 36, line 10, increase the amount by $554,000,000.
       On page 36, line 11, increase the amount by $554,000,000.
       On page 36, line 14, increase the amount by $1,031,000,000.
       On page 36, line 15, increase the amount by $1,031,000,000.
       On page 36, line 18, increase the amount by $1,609,000,000.
       On page 36, line 19, increase the amount by $1,609,000,000.
       On page 36, line 22, increase the amount by $2,280,000,000.
       On page 36, line 23, increase the amount by $2,280,000,000.
       On page 37, line 2, increase the amount by $3,028,000,000.
       On page 37, line 3, increase the amount by $3,028,000,000.
       On page 37, line 6, increase the amount by $3,827,000,000.
       On page 37, line 7, increase the amount by $3,827,000,000.
       On page 37, line 10, increase the amount by $4,672,000,000.
       On page 37, line 11, increase the amount by $4,672,000,000.
       On page 37, line 14, increase the amount by $5,564,000,000.
       On page 37, line 15, increase the amount by $5,564,000,000.

                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1406. Mr. COONS submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO PROVIDING 
                   GREATER INCENTIVES FOR DOMESTIC MANUFACTURING.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     providing greater incentives for manufacturers who develop 
     and manufacture their products in the United States, by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1407. Mr. COONS submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO EXPANDING 
                   THE RESEARCH TAX CREDIT.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     expanding the tax credit for increasing research activities, 
     by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1408. Mr. WARNER (for himself and Mr. Young) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO DIRECTING 
                   THE BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS TO CONDUCT THE 
                   WORK SCHEDULES AND WORK AT HOME SUPPLEMENT TO 
                   THE CURRENT POPULATION SURVEY.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     enabling the Bureau of Labor Statistics to conduct the Work 
     Schedules and Work at Home Supplement to the Current 
     Population Survey, which may include funding measures or 
     other measures addressing that Supplement, by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1409. Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself and Mr. Coons) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND TO REBUILD THE 
                   CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE OF PUERTO RICO.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     rebuilding the critical infrastructure of Puerto Rico by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through

[[Page S6663]]

     2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1410. Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself and Mr. Coons) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO ENSURING 
                   CLEAN DRINKING WATER FOR PUERTO RICO.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     ensuring clean drinking water for Puerto Rico by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1411. Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself and Mr. Coons) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   REBUILDING AND RESTORING HOSPITALS IN PUERTO 
                   RICO.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     rebuilding and restoring hospitals in Puerto Rico by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1412. Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself and Mr. Coons) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   REBUILDING AND REPLACING THE ELECTRIC GRID IN 
                   PUERTO RICO.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     rebuilding and replacing the electric grid in Puerto Rico by 
     the amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1413. Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself and Mr. Coons) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   REBUILDING AND RESTORING ROADS AND BRIDGES IN 
                   PUERTO RICO.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     rebuilding and restoring roads and bridges in Puerto Rico by 
     the amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1414. Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself and Mr. Coons) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND TO REBUILD AND 
                   RESTORE TELECOMMUNICATIONS IN PUERTO RICO.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     rebuilding and restoring telecommunications in Puerto Rico by 
     the amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1415. Mr. SULLIVAN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   BOLSTERING UNITED STATES MISSILE DEFENSE.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     activities undertaken to--
       (1) maintain and improve, with the allies of the United 
     States, an effective, robust layered missile defense system 
     capable of defending the citizens of the United States 
     residing in territories and States of the United States, 
     allies of the United States, and deployed Armed Forces of the 
     United States;
       (2) increase the capability, capacity, and reliability of 
     the United States homeland and theater ballistic missile 
     defense systems to defend against the evolving and 
     increasingly complex ballistic missile threats of adversaries 
     of the United States;
       (3) develop a resilient space-based missile defense sensor 
     layer to provide persistent, launch-to-intercept tracking, 
     discrimination, and kill assessment of ballistic missile 
     threats and provide this capability to the Armed Forces as 
     soon as technically feasible; and
       (4) increase funding to homeland missile defense testing to 
     ensure that United States defenses continue to evolve faster 
     than the threats against which they are postured to defend
     by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1416. Mr. SULLIVAN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   BOLSTERING UNITED STATES MISSILE DEFENSE.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     maintaining and improving, with the allies of the United 
     States, an

[[Page S6664]]

     effective, robust layered missile defense system, and to 
     increasing the capability, capacity, and reliability of the 
     United States homeland and theater ballistic missile defense 
     systems by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1417. Mr. FRANKEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   REBUILDING RESILIENT INFRASTRUCTURE IN PUERTO 
                   RICO AND THE UNITED STATES VIRGIN ISLANDS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     rebuilding infrastructure in Puerto Rico and the United 
     States Virgin Islands destroyed or damaged by Hurricanes Irma 
     and Maria in a resilient and sustainable way that reduces the 
     threat from future disasters, including rebuilding the 
     electric grid and investing in distributed clean energy 
     technologies such as solar, wind, energy efficiency, and 
     battery storage as targeted in local clean energy 
     legislation, by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1418. Mr. FRANKEN (for himself and Mr. Udall) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO NATIONAL 
                   RENEWABLE ENERGY AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY TARGETS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     requiring all electric load serving entities to procure 30 
     percent of the electric supply of the entities from new 
     renewable energy resources by 2030, and electric and natural 
     gas distribution companies to invest in all cost-effective 
     energy efficiency measures, by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1419. Ms. COLLINS (for herself and Mr. Nelson) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO IMPROVING 
                   RETIREMENT SECURITY.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     improving retirement security, by making it easier for small 
     businesses to provide retirement plans for their employees, 
     by easing the administrative burden, and by encouraging 
     individuals to increase their savings, by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1420. Mrs. McCASKILL (for herself and Mr. Wyden) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST PROVIDING A TAX CUT TO THE 
                   TOP 1 PERCENT OR CREATING A LOOPHOLE FOR 
                   WEALTHY TAX DODGERS THROUGH LOWERING THE PASS-
                   THROUGH TAX RATE.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report relating 
     to a reconciliation bill that would--
       (1) provide a tax cut on business income to individuals in 
     the top 1 percent of income, or
       (2) increase the incentive for workers to receive 
     compensation from their current employer through a pass-
     through business rather than in the form of higher-taxed 
     wages.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1421. Mr. BROWN (for himself, Ms. Warren, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Reed, 
and Mr. Durbin) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 3, line 12, increase the amount by $470,000,000.
       On page 3, line 13, increase the amount by $1,190,000,000.
       On page 4, line 1, increase the amount by $1,700,000,000.
       On page 4, line 2, increase the amount by $2,020,000,000.
       On page 4, line 3, increase the amount by $2,320,000,000.
       On page 4, line 4, increase the amount by $2,690,000,000.
       On page 4, line 5, increase the amount by $3,015,000,000.
       On page 4, line 6, increase the amount by $3,200,000,000.
       On page 4, line 7, increase the amount by $3,325,000,000.
       On page 4, line 8, increase the amount by $3,450,000,000.
       On page 4, line 12, increase the amount by $470,000,000.
       On page 4, line 13, increase the amount by $1,190,000,000.
       On page 4, line 14, increase the amount by $1,700,000,000.
       On page 4, line 15, increase the amount by $2,020,000,000.
       On page 4, line 16, increase the amount by $2,320,000,000.
       On page 4, line 17, increase the amount by $2,690,000,000.
       On page 4, line 18, increase the amount by $3,015,000,000.
       On page 4, line 19, increase the amount by $3,200,000,000.
       On page 4, line 20, increase the amount by $3,325,000,000.
       On page 4, line 21, increase the amount by $3,450,000,000.
       On page 4, line 25, increase the amount by $470,000,000.
       On page 5, line 1, increase the amount by $1,190,000,000.
       On page 5, line 2, increase the amount by $1,700,000,000.
       On page 5, line 3, increase the amount by $2,020,000,000.
       On page 5, line 4, increase the amount by $2,320,000,000.
       On page 5, line 5, increase the amount by $2,690,000,000.
       On page 5, line 6, increase the amount by $3,015,000,000.
       On page 5, line 7, increase the amount by $3,200,000,000.
       On page 5, line 8, increase the amount by $3,325,000,000.
       On page 5, line 9, increase the amount by $3,450,000,000.
       On page 5, line 13, increase the amount by $470,000,000.
       On page 5, line 14, increase the amount by $1,190,000,000.
       On page 5, line 15, increase the amount by $1,700,000,000.
       On page 5, line 16, increase the amount by $2,020,000,000.
       On page 5, line 17, increase the amount by $2,320,000,000.
       On page 5, line 18, increase the amount by $2,690,000,000.
       On page 5, line 19, increase the amount by $3,015,000,000.
       On page 5, line 20, increase the amount by $3,200,000,000.

[[Page S6665]]

       On page 5, line 21, increase the amount by $3,325,000,000.
       On page 5, line 22, increase the amount by $3,450,000,000.
       On page 22, line 20, increase the amount by $470,000,000.
       On page 22, line 21, increase the amount by $470,000,000.
       On page 22, line 24, increase the amount by $1,190,000,000.
       On page 22, line 25, increase the amount by $1,190,000,000.
       On page 23, line 3, increase the amount by $1,700,000,000.
       On page 23, line 4, increase the amount by $1,700,000,000.
       On page 23, line 7, increase the amount by $2,020,000,000.
       On page 23, line 8, increase the amount by $2,020,000,000.
       On page 23, line 11, increase the amount by $2,320,000,000.
       On page 23, line 12, increase the amount by $2,320,000,000.
       On page 23, line 15, increase the amount by $2,690,000,000.
       On page 23, line 16, increase the amount by $2,690,000,000.
       On page 23, line 19, increase the amount by $3,015,000,000.
       On page 23, line 20, increase the amount by $3,015,000,000.
       On page 23, line 23, increase the amount by $3,200,000,000.
       On page 23, line 24, increase the amount by $3,200,000,000.
       On page 24, line 2, increase the amount by $3,325,000,000.
       On page 24, line 3, increase the amount by $3,325,000,000.
       On page 24, line 6, increase the amount by $3,450,000,000.
       On page 24, line 7, increase the amount by $3,450,000,000.
       On page 47, line 6, decrease the amount by $23,380,000,000.
       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO ENSURING 
                   THAT UNDERGRADUATE FEDERAL DIRECT STAFFORD LOAN 
                   STUDENT BORROWERS WILL NOT PAY INTEREST WHILE 
                   ATTENDING AN INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     ensuring that current Federal policy will continue for 
     undergraduate Federal Direct Stafford Loan student borrowers 
     and such borrowers will not pay interest on their Federal 
     Direct Stafford Loans while enrolled in an institution of 
     higher education, by the amounts provided in such legislation 
     for those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1422. Mr. ENZI (for Mr. Portman) proposed an amendment to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:-

     SEC. 3 ___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO THE 
                   PROVISION OF INCENTIVES FOR BUSINESSES TO 
                   INVEST IN AMERICA AND CREATE JOBS IN AMERICA.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     changes in federal tax laws, which may include international 
     tax provisions that provide or enhance incentives for 
     businesses to invest in America, generate American jobs, 
     retain American jobs, and return jobs to America, by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1423. Mr. DONNELLY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   ELIMINATING TAX BREAKS FOR COMPANIES THAT SHIP 
                   JOBS TO FOREIGN COUNTRIES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     eliminating tax breaks for companies that outsource jobs to 
     foreign countries, by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1424. Mr. DONNELLY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PREVENTING OUTSOURCING.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to the 
     consideration in Federal contracting policy of whether 
     proposed contractors outsource United States jobs, to the 
     clawing back of tax incentives received by, and the 
     prohibition of tax breaks for, companies that outsource jobs 
     and factories instead of investing in the United States 
     economy, and to providing tax incentives for companies to 
     relocate foreign jobs to the United States, by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1425. Mr. NELSON submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

     SEC. ___. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST REPEALING OIL MORATORIUM 
                   THAT PROTECTS MILITARY READINESS.

       It shall not be in order in the Senate to consider any 
     bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, amendment between 
     the Houses, or conference report that would allow for new oil 
     drilling east of the Military Mission Line in the Gulf of 
     Mexico.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1426. Mr. RUBIO submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO THE 
                   COLOMBIAN PEACE AGREEMENT.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     providing additional support to the Government of Colombia 
     for the implementation of a Colombian peace agreement which 
     may include the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, which 
     may include conditions relating to counternarcotics programs 
     aerial eradication or extradition requests, by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1427. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:


[[Page S6666]]


  

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATED TO EXPANDING 
                   THE CHILD TAX CREDIT.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     providing tax relief for working families, which may include 
     an expansion of the child tax credit, by the amounts provided 
     in such legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1428. Mr. ENZI (for Mr. Lee) proposed an amendment to amendment SA 
1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, 
establishing the congressional budget for the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the 
table; as follows:

       On page 57, line 19, insert ``, including rewriting the 
     formula for payments under the program'' after ``program''.

                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1429. Mr. ENZI (for Mr. Lee) proposed an amendment to amendment SA 
1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, 
establishing the congressional budget for the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the 
table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3__. SPENDING-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   CLARIFYING FEDERAL JURISDICTION IN RELATION TO 
                   INTRASTATE SPECIES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     prohibiting Federal regulation of entirely intrastate species 
     under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et 
     seq.) by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not raise new 
     revenue and would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1430. Mr. ENZI (for Mr. Lee) proposed an amendment to amendment SA 
1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, 
establishing the congressional budget for the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the 
table; as follows:

       On page 49, line 5, insert ``, which may include 
     nullification of any regulations promulgated under title I of 
     the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (including any 
     amendment made by such title)'' before ``by the''.

                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1431. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 56, between lines 8 and 9, insert the following:
       (5) assessing nuclear deterrent effectiveness;
       (6) encouraging the submission of an overall national 
     security strategy;
       (7) limiting United States military engagements abroad that 
     are not explicitly authorized by an Act of Congress;
       (8) prohibiting the Armed Forces from participating in a 
     humanitarian operation, or assisting in a civil war, ethnic 
     conflict, tribal or territorial dispute, without an explicit 
     authorization by an Act of Congress; or
       (9) placing limitations on United States military 
     engagements and foreign military sales to either party or 
     side (whether rebel, opposition group, or established 
     government) in an internal, domestic, or civil war or dispute 
     within a country or relating to activities in pursuit of 
     autonomy or independence,
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1432. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3__. SPENDING-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO THE 
                   DISPOSAL OF EXCESS FEDERAL LAND TO REDUCE THE 
                   FEDERAL DEFICIT.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to the 
     disposal of excess Federal land to reduce the Federal deficit 
     by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not raise new 
     revenue and would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1433. Mr. MANCHIN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO STRATEGIC 
                   ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to making 
     any regional large-scale strategic energy infrastructure 
     project with the potential to significantly contribute to the 
     economic resilience of the region in which the project is 
     located eligible for a loan guarantee under section 1703 of 
     the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16513), by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1434. Mr. MANCHIN (for himself, Mr. Casey, and Mr. Warner) 
submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 
proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, 
establishing the congressional budget for the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the 
table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO ECONOMIC 
                   REVITALIZATION FOR COAL COUNTRY.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     providing funds to States and Indian tribes for the purpose 
     of promoting economic revitalization, diversification, and 
     development in economically distressed communities through 
     the reclamation and restoration of land and water resources 
     adversely affected by coal mining carried out before August 
     3, 1977, by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1435. Mr. BENNET (for himself and Mr. Gardner) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO A 
                   LIFETIME BAN ON SENATORS AND MEMBERS OF THE 
                   HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES ENGAGING IN LOBBYING.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this

[[Page S6667]]

     resolution, and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to a lifetime ban on Senators and Members of the 
     House of Representatives engaging in lobbying by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1436. Mr. DURBIN (for himself and Ms. Duckworth) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD CUT 
                   MEDICARE OR MEDICAID BENEFITS FOR WORKING-CLASS 
                   AND MIDDLE-INCOME ILLINOISANS WHILE CUTTING 
                   TAXES FOR THE WEALTHY AND LARGE CORPORATIONS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that 
     shortens the financial stability of Medicare or Medicaid or 
     cuts benefits under Medicare or Medicaid for working-class 
     and middle-income Illinoisans while cutting taxes for the 
     wealthy and large corporations.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1437. Mr. DURBIN (for himself and Ms. Duckworth) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PREVENTING LEGISLATION FROM RAISING TAXES ON 
                   MIDDLE-INCOME ILLINOISANS WHILE CUTTING TAXES 
                   FOR THE WEALTHY AND LARGE CORPORATIONS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     preventing tax increases on middle-income Illinoisans while 
     cutting taxes for the wealthy and large corporations, by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1438. Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr. Reed, Ms. Baldwin, Ms. 
Duckworth, Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. Leahy, and Mr. Franken) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PROHIBITING INVERTED CORPORATIONS FROM AVOIDING 
                   UNITED STATES TAXES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     preventing certain corporation from avoiding paying their 
     fair share of United States taxes, which may include 
     reforming the definition of an inverted corporation under the 
     Internal Revenue Code of 1986 or preventing earnings 
     stripping, by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1439. Mr. DURBIN (for himself and Ms. Duckworth) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO PROVIDING 
                   TAX INCENTIVES TO BUSINESSES TO HIRE YOUTH FROM 
                   ECONOMICALLY DISTRESSED AREAS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to the 
     modification and extension of the work opportunity tax 
     credit, which may include increasing the amount of the credit 
     and expanding the credit to allow for year-round employment 
     of at-risk youth, by the amounts provided in such legislation 
     for those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1440. Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr. Reed, Mr. Van Hollen, and Mr. 
Franken) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 
1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, 
establishing the congressional budget for the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the 
table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PREVENTING CERTAIN CORPORATIONS FROM PROFITING 
                   FROM GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     preventing certain corporations that avoid paying their fair 
     share of United States taxes from profiting from Federal 
     government contracts, which may include revising the 
     definition of an inverted corporation or identifying 
     corporations that were previously located in the United 
     States and are now located in foreign countries such as the 
     United Kingdom, Bermuda, or the Cayman Islands, by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1441. Mr. LEAHY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO TAX 
                   DEDUCTIONS FOR PUNITIVE DAMAGES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to the 
     business deductions under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 
     which may include disallowing such a deduction for punitive 
     damages, by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1442. Mrs. MURRAY (for herself, Mr. Brown, Mr. Booker, Ms. Warren, 
and Mr. Blumenthal) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States

[[Page S6668]]

Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate 
budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered 
to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   ADDRESSING THE GENDER WAGE GAP THROUGH AN 
                   UPDATE OF THE EMPLOYER INFORMATION REPORT.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports, relating to 
     addressing the gender wage gap through an update of the 
     Employer Information Report (EEO-1) that includes gathering 
     data from employers about compensation by race, ethnicity, 
     gender, and job category, by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1443. Mrs. MURRAY (for herself, Mr. Brown, Mr. Booker, Ms. Warren, 
and Mr. Blumenthal) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PROTECTING WORKERS FROM WAGE THEFT.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     protecting workers from wage theft, which may include (1) 
     creating new civil penalties for employers who engage in wage 
     theft; (2) giving workers the right to receive full 
     compensation for all of the work that they perform; (3) 
     giving workers the right to receive their final paychecks in 
     a timely manner; (4) requiring employers to provide regular 
     paystubs to workers; (5) increasing the amount of damages 
     workers receive when they experience wage theft or experience 
     retaliation for filing a complaint about wage theft; (6) 
     increasing the number of years that workers have to bring a 
     wage theft claim in court and suspending that time limit 
     while the Department of Labor is conducting an investigation; 
     or (7) directing the Department of Labor to refer employers 
     responsible for egregious and comprehensive violations to the 
     Department of Justice for criminal prosecution, by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1444. Mrs. MURRAY (for herself, Mr. Brown, Mr. Booker, Ms. Warren, 
and Mr. Blumenthal) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   SIGNIFICANTLY INCREASING OVERTIME PROTECTIONS 
                   FOR MIDDLE-CLASS WORKERS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     protecting workers from working overtime hours without 
     compensation, which may include a substantial increase in 
     overtime protections for middle class workers, by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1445. Mrs. MURRAY (for herself, Mr. Franken, Mr. Brown, Mr. 
Booker, and Ms. Warren) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO ACHIEVING 
                   ECONOMY AND EFFICIENCY IN FEDERAL PROCUREMENT 
                   BY ENSURING CONTRACTOR COMPLIANCE WITH EXISTING 
                   LAW.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     achieving economy and efficiency in Federal procurement by 
     ensuring contractor compliance with existing law, including 
     compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, 
     title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Occupational 
     Safety and Health Act of 1970, the Fair Labor Standards Act 
     of 1938, and the National Labor Relations Act, by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1446. Mr. UDALL (for himself and Mr. Heinrich) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO THE 
                   SHORTFALLS OF THE RADIATION EXPOSURE 
                   COMPENSATION ACT.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     ensuring that compensation be provided to people in the 
     United States who were sickened by radiation exposure by 
     above ground nuclear weapons testing throughout the western 
     United States and Pacific islands, and to those were sickened 
     by radiation while working in the uranium mining industry 
     during the Cold War, by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1447. Mr. UDALL submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO HOUSING 
                   FOR ALL NATIVE AMERICANS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     ensuring that funding under the Native American Housing 
     Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 provides 
     funding to all Native American communities, including Alaska 
     Natives and Native Hawaiians, to address the critical housing 
     needs throughout Indian Country, by the amounts provided in 
     such legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1448. Mr. UDALL submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

[[Page S6669]]

  


     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO TRUST 
                   ACQUISITIONS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to trust 
     acquisitions, which may include prohibiting regulations that 
     revise the Department of the Interior's land into trust 
     acquisition process, whether for on-reservation or off-
     reservation acquisitions, or that could result in a de facto 
     moratorium on trust acquisitions, by the amounts provided in 
     such legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1449. Mr. REED submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO REDUCING 
                   THE GEOGRAPHIC IMBALANCE IN FEDERAL RESEARCH 
                   FUNDING AND IMPROVING RESEARCH INFRASTRUCTURE 
                   AND CAPACITY THROUGHOUT THE STATES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to the 
     Established Program to Stimulate Competitive Research of the 
     National Aeronautics and Space Administration (commonly known 
     as ``ESPCoR''), which may include support for States and 
     jurisdictions that are historically underserved by Federal 
     research and development funding, by the amounts provided in 
     such legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1450. Mr. REED submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   ELIMINATING CORPORATE DEDUCTIONS FOR 
                   COMPENSATION IN EXCESS OF $1,000,000.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     reducing the tax code's subsidization of corporate 
     compensation, which may include eliminating corporate 
     deductions for compensation in excess of $1,000,000, by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1451. Mr. REED (for himself and Mr. Brown) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to 
the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LIMITING ACCESS TO HEALTH 
                   CARE FOR CHILDREN.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     reduce health insurance coverage for children, including cuts 
     to Medicaid, the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP), 
     or the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, such as 
     restricting Federal requirements that private insurance 
     provide coverage for pediatric services.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1452. Mr. REED (for himself, Mr. Blumenthal, and Ms. Warren) 
submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 
proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, 
establishing the congressional budget for the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the 
table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST CUTTING LONG-TERM SERVICES 
                   AND SUPPORTS FOR SENIORS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     cut long term services and supports for seniors, including 
     nursing home care and home and community-based care, under 
     the Medicaid program under title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.) by reducing Federal funding of 
     State Medicaid programs, including by instituting a block 
     grant model for Federal funding of State Medicaid programs or 
     imposing per capita caps on Federal funding of State Medicaid 
     programs.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1453. Mr. REED (for himself and Mr. Coons) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to 
the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO EXPANDING 
                   NATIONAL SERVICE OPPORTUNITIES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     strengthening and expanding national service programs offered 
     through the Corporation for National and Community Service, 
     which may include increasing the value of the education 
     awards earned by national service program volunteers, by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1454. Mr. REED (for himself, Mr. Whitehouse, Ms. Hirono, and Ms. 
Warren) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 
1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, 
establishing the congressional budget for the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the 
table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   INCREASING THE MAXIMUM FEDERAL PELL GRANT AWARD 
                   AND ADJUSTING THE AWARD FOR INFLATION.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     increasing the maximum Federal Pell Grant award and ensuring 
     that the award is adjusted for inflation, by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1455. Mr. REED (for himself and Mr. Brown) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to 
the

[[Page S6670]]

concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional 
budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 2018 and 
setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 
through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO SCHOOL 
                   INFRASTRUCTURE.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     establishing a program to address critical infrastructure 
     needs in the public elementary and secondary schools of the 
     United States, by the amounts provided in such legislation 
     for those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1456. Mr. REED (for himself and Ms. Warren) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to 
the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST INCREASING THE COSTS TO 
                   BORROWERS IN THE FEDERAL STUDENT LOAN PROGRAMS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     increase the cost to borrowers of Federal education loans 
     made to students or on behalf of students, including a switch 
     to fair value accounting rules.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1457. Mr. REED (for himself and Ms. Warren) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to 
the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   ELIMINATING NEGATIVE SUBSIDIES IN THE FEDERAL 
                   STUDENT LOAN PROGRAM AND REDUCING COSTS FOR 
                   BORROWERS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     reforming the Federal student loan programs under title IV of 
     the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq.) to 
     eliminate negative subsidies and reduce costs for borrowers, 
     by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1458. Mr. REED submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO PROVIDING 
                   FOR FIVE YEARS OF FEDERAL FUNDING FOR SHORT-
                   TIME COMPENSATION PROGRAMS, WHICH PREVENT 
                   LAYOFFS AND KEEP AMERICANS EMPLOYED.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     providing for five years of Federal funding for short-time 
     compensation programs, which prevent layoffs and keep 
     Americans employed, by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1459. Mr. REED submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO SECURING 
                   THE LONG-TERM INTEGRITY OF THE AMERICAN 
                   WORKFORCE BY MODERNIZING UNEMPLOYMENT 
                   COMPENSATION TO HELP INSURE AGAINST JOB LOSS 
                   DUE TO AUTOMATION, ECONOMIC DOWNTURNS, AND 
                   DISASTERS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     securing the long-term integrity of the American workforce by 
     modernizing unemployment compensation, including by insuring 
     against job loss due to automation, economic downturns and 
     disasters, by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1460. Mr. REED (for himself, Mr. Durbin, and Ms. Warren) submitted 
an amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by 
Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO REFORMING 
                   STUDENT LOAN PROGRAMS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     student loan reform, which may include establishing a policy 
     of risk sharing to require institutions of higher education 
     to assume some of the risk for student loans, by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1461. Mr. HOEVEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3 ___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO TAX 
                   RELIEF FOR NON-CORPORATE SMALL BUSINESS OWNERS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     changes in Federal tax laws, which may include reducing the 
     roughly 45% top marginal rate applicable to small business 
     owners, in a manner that will prevent re-characterization of 
     personal income as business income, and further reform the 
     pass-through area, including loophole closers by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1462. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr.

[[Page S6671]]

Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3__. SPENDING-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO REPEALING 
                   THE DAVIS-BACON ACT.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     repealing the prevailing wage rate requirements by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not raise new revenue 
     and would not increase the deficit over either the period of 
     the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of 
     the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1463. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. SPENDING-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO THE 
                   INSTITUTIONAL ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS FOR 
                   PARTICIPATION IN POSTSECONDARY STUDENT 
                   FINANCIAL AID PROGRAMS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to the 
     eligibility requirements for institutions of higher education 
     to participate in the student financial assistance programs, 
     by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not raise new 
     revenue and would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1464. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO EXPANDING 
                   HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNTS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     expanding health savings accounts by the amounts provided in 
     such legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1465. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3__. SPENDING-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO WORK 
                   REQUIREMENT MODIFICATIONS TO THE SUPPLEMENTAL 
                   NUTRITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM AND ESTABLISHING A 
                   STATE OPTION TO INSTITUTE MEDICAID WORK 
                   REQUIREMENTS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     modifying work requirements for participation in the 
     supplemental nutrition assistance program established under 
     the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.), 
     and establishing a State option to institute Medicaid work 
     requirements, by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     raise new revenue and would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1466. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 49, line 5, insert ``which may include prohibiting 
     additional States from adopting the Medicaid expansion 
     established by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act 
     or eliminating the enhanced Federal medical assistance 
     percentages applicable to State expenditures for medical 
     assistance provided under such Medicaid expansion,'' before 
     ``by the amounts''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1467. Mr. CASSIDY (for himself and Mr. Carper) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   INCREASING ACCESS TO HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNTS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     increasing access to, and expanding the use of, health 
     savings accounts, by the amounts provided in such legislation 
     for those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1468. Mr. CASSIDY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   INCENTIVIZING PRICE TRANSPARENCY IN OUR HEALTH 
                   CARE SYSTEM.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     allowing States to combine waivers under section 1115 of the 
     Social Security Act and waivers under section 1332 of the 
     Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act to better serve 
     the unique needs of the populations in their States, by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1469. Mr. CASSIDY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   LEGISLATION TO IMPROVE THE QUALITY OF CARE IN 
                   MEDICAID.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments

[[Page S6672]]

     between the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating 
     to legislation that would improve the quality of care in the 
     Medicaid program, which may include streamlining care 
     delivery, rewarding high-quality care, increasing the ability 
     of States to innovate, improving oversight of waste, fraud, 
     and abuse, and improving quality metrics, by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1470. Mr. CASSIDY (for himself and Mr. Carper) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO GIVING 
                   STATES THE ABILITY TO IMPLEMENT ALTERNATIVES TO 
                   THE INDIVIDUAL MANDATE AND USE OTHER MECHANISMS 
                   FOR INCENTIVIZING ENROLLMENT IN HEALTH 
                   INSURANCE COVERAGE.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to giving 
     States the ability to implement alternatives to the 
     individual mandate and use other mechanisms for incentivizing 
     enrollment in health insurance coverage, which may include 
     the option of automatic enrollment in health insurance 
     coverage, by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1471. Mr. CASSIDY (for himself, Mr. Carper, Mr. Bennet, Mr. Young, 
and Mr. Barrasso) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   INCENTIVIZING PRICE TRANSPARENCY IN OUR HEALTH 
                   CARE DELIVERY SYSTEM.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     incentivizing price transparency in our health care delivery 
     system, which may include addressing surprise medical 
     billing, by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1472. Mr. CASSIDY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   INCENTIVIZING PRICE TRANSPARENCY IN OUR HEALTH 
                   CARE SYSTEM.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     increasing the ability of States to apply for and receive, 
     and incentivizing States to apply for, a waiver under section 
     1332 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (42 
     U.S.C. 18052) to act as pass-through entities for funding, by 
     the amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1473. Mr. MANCHIN (for himself, Mrs. Murray, and Mr. Blumenthal) 
submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 
proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, 
establishing the congressional budget for the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the 
table; as follows:

       On page 3, line 12, increase the amount by $7,235,000,000.
       On page 3, line 13, increase the amount by $7,506,000,000.
       On page 4, line 1, increase the amount by $7,666,000,000.
       On page 4, line 2, increase the amount by $7,763,000,000.
       On page 4, line 3, increase the amount by $7,657,000,000.
       On page 4, line 4, increase the amount by $7,748,000,000.
       On page 4, line 5, increase the amount by $7,847,000,000.
       On page 4, line 6, increase the amount by $7,954,000,000.
       On page 4, line 7, increase the amount by $8,071,000,000.
       On page 4, line 8, increase the amount by $8,212,000,000.
       On page 4, line 12, increase the amount by $7,235,000,000.
       On page 4, 1ine 13, increase the amount by $7,506,000,000.
       On page 4, line 14, increase the amount by $7,666,000,000.
       On page 4, line 15, increase the amount by $7,763,000,000.
       On page 4, line 16, increase the amount by $7,657,000,000.
       On page 4, line 17, increase the amount by 7,748,000,000.
       On page 4, line 18, increase the amount by $7,847,000,000.
       On page 4, line 19, increase the amount by $7,954,000,000.
       On page 4, line 20, increase the amount by $8,071,000,000.
       On page 4, line 21, increase the amount by $8,212,000,000.
       On page 4, line 25, increase the amount by $7,469,000,000.
       On page 5, line 1, increase the amount by $7,614,000,000.
       On page 5, line 2, increase the amount by $7,815,000,000.
       On page 5, line 3, increase the amount by $7,630,000,000.
       On page 5, line 4, increase the amount by $7,723,000,000.
       On page 5, line 5, increase the amount by $7,820,000,000.
       On page 5, line 6, increase the amount by $7,925,000,000.
       On page 5, line 7, increase the amount by $8,035,000,000.
       On page 5, line 8, increase the amount by $8,172,000,000.
       On page 5, line 9, increase the amount by $8,323,000,000.
       On page 5, line 13, increase the amount by $7,235,000,000.
       On page 5, line 14, increase the amount by $7,506,000,000.
       On page 5, line 15, increase the amount by $7,666,000,000.
       On page 5, line 16, increase the amount by $7,763,000,000.
       On page 5, line 17, increase the amount by $7,657,000,000.
       On page 5, line 18, increase the amount by $7,748,000,000.
       On page 5, line 19, increase the amount by $7,847,000,000.
       On page 5, line 20, increase the amount by $7,954,000,000.
       On page 5, line 21, increase the amount by $8,071,000,000.
       On page 5, line 22, increase the amount by $8,212,000,000.
       On page 22, line 20, increase the amount by $7,469,000,000.
       On page 22, line 21, increase the amount by $7,235,000,000.
       On page 22, line 24, increase the amount by $7,614,000,000.
       On page 22, line 25, increase the amount by $7,506,000,000.
       On page 23, line 3, increase the amount by $7,815,000,000.
       On page 23, line 4, increase the amount by $7,666,000,000.
       On page 23, line 7, increase the amount by $7,630,000,000.
       On page 23, line 8, increase the amount by $7,763,000,000.
       On page 23, line 11, increase the amount by $7,723,000,000.
       On page 23, line 12, increase the amount by $7,657,000,000.
       On page 23, line 15, increase the amount by $7,820,000,000.
       On page 23, line 16, increase the amount by $7,748,000,000.
       On page 23, line 19, increase the amount by $7,925,000,000.
       On page 23, line 20, increase the amount by $7,847,000,000.
       On page 23, line 23, increase the amount by $8,035,000,000.
       On page 23, line 24, increase the amount by $7,954,000,000.
       On page 24, line 2, increase the amount by $8,172,000,000.
       On page 24, line 3, increase the amount by $8,071,000,000.
       On page 24, line 6, increase the amount by $8,323,000,000.

[[Page S6673]]

       On page 24, line 7, increase the amount by $8,212,000,000.
       On page 47, line 6, reduce the amount by $77,659,000,000.
       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD 
                   REDUCE THE FUNDING FOR FINANCIAL AID MADE 
                   AVAILABLE TO LOW AND MIDDLE INCOME INDIVIDUALS 
                   THROUGH THE FEDERAL PELL GRANT PROGRAM.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     reduce the funding for financial aid made available to low 
     and middle income individuals through the Federal Pell Grant 
     program under subpart 1 of part A of title IV of the Higher 
     Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070a et seq.), including 
     cuts to mandatory funding and budget authority provided for 
     the Federal Pell Grant increase calculated under section 
     401(b)(7) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
     1070a(b)(7)).
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1474. Mr. BLUMENTHAL submitted an amendment intended to be 
proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent 
resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO IMPROVING 
                   DRUG PRICING TRANSPARENCY FOR CONSUMERS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     improving drug pricing transparency for consumers, by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1475. Mr. BLUMENTHAL submitted an amendment intended to be 
proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent 
resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PROTECTING STUDENTS FROM PREDATORY FOR-PROFIT 
                   INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     protecting students, including students who are veterans of 
     the armed forces, from predatory for-profit institutions of 
     higher education by the amounts provided in such legislation 
     for those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1476. Mr. BLUMENTHAL submitted an amendment intended to be 
proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent 
resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST REDUCING FUNDING FOR 
                   FEDERAL STUDENT FINANCIAL AID PROGRAMS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     reduce funding for Federal student financial aid programs.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1477. Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself and Mr. Wyden) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO EXPANDING 
                   ACCESS TO HIGH-QUALITY MENTORING AND OTHER 
                   POLICIES AND HIGH-QUALITY PROGRAMS AND SERVICES 
                   AIMED AT IMPROVING SOCIAL CAPITAL FOR FOSTER 
                   YOUTH.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     expanding access to high-quality mentoring and other policies 
     and high-quality programs and services aimed at improving 
     social capital for foster youth by the amounts provided in 
     such legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1478. Mr. BLUMENTHAL submitted an amendment intended to be 
proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent 
resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST REDUCING FUNDING FOR 
                   DISEASE PREVENTION EFFORTS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that 
     would--
       (1) result in a reduction or elimination of funding under 
     section 4002 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care 
     Act (42 U.S.C. 300u-11);
       (2) reduce the Federal resources provided to communities to 
     invest in effective, proven prevention efforts; or
       (3) increase the prevalence of disease rates amongst 
     children.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1479. Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself, Mr. Heinrich, Mr. Murphy, Mrs. 
Feinstein, and Mrs. Murray) submitted an amendment intended to be 
proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent 
resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 52, line 10, insert ``by expanding access to State-
     run retirement plans for private sector workers'' before the 
     semicolon.

                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1480. Mr. YOUNG submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 52, line 14, strike ``or''.
       On page 52, line 15, strike the comma and insert ``; or''.
       On page 52, insert the following after line 15:
       (8) paying for successful outcomes in social programs,

[[Page S6674]]

  

                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1481. Mr. YOUNG submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 52, between lines 15 and 16, insert the following:
       (8) increasing organ donation and improving the organ 
     donation system,
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1482. Mr. YOUNG submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 52, between lines 15 and 16, insert the following:
       (8) addressing medical errors and patient safety,
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1483. Mr. WICKER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end, add the following:

                TITLE V--VESSEL INCIDENTAL DISCHARGE ACT

     SEC. 5001. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

       (a) Short Title.--This title may be cited as the ``Vessel 
     Incidental Discharge Act''.
       (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this 
     title is as follows:

                TITLE V--VESSEL INCIDENTAL DISCHARGE ACT

Sec. 5001. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 5002. Definitions.
Sec. 5003. Treatment of existing ballast water regulations.
Sec. 5004. Ballast water discharge requirements.
Sec. 5005. Approval of ballast water management systems.
Sec. 5006. Review and raising of ballast water discharge standard.
Sec. 5007. National Ballast Information Clearinghouse.
Sec. 5008. Requirements for discharges incidental to the normal 
              operation of a commercial vessel.
Sec. 5009. Best management practices for Great Lakes vessels.
Sec. 5010. Judicial review.
Sec. 5011. State enforcement.
Sec. 5012. Effect on other laws.
Sec. 5013. Quagga mussel.
Sec. 5014. Coastal aquatic invasive species mitigation grant program 
              and mitigation fund.
Sec. 5015. Rules of construction.

     SEC. 5002. DEFINITIONS.

       In this title:
       (1) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
     Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
       (2) Aquatic nuisance species.--The term ``aquatic nuisance 
     species'' means a nonindigenous species (including a 
     pathogen, microbe, or virus) that threatens the diversity or 
     abundance of native species or the ecological stability of 
     waters of the United States, or commercial, agricultural, 
     aquacultural, or recreational activities dependent on such 
     waters.
       (3) Ballast water.--
       (A) In general.--The term ``ballast water'' means any water 
     and suspended matter taken on board a commercial vessel--
       (i) to control or maintain trim, draught, stability, or 
     stresses of the commercial vessel, regardless of how such 
     water and matter is carried; or
       (ii) during the cleaning, maintenance, or other operation 
     of a ballast tank or ballast water management system of the 
     commercial vessel.
       (B) Exclusions.--The term ``ballast water'' does not 
     include any substance that is added to water described in 
     subparagraph (A) that is directly related to the operation of 
     a properly functioning ballast water management system.
       (4) Ballast water discharge standard.--The term ``ballast 
     water discharge standard'' means--
       (A) the numerical ballast water discharge standard set 
     forth in section 151.2030 of title 33, Code of Federal 
     Regulations, or section 151.1511 of such title (as in effect 
     on the date of the enactment of this Act); or
       (B) if the standard described in subparagraph (A) has been 
     revised under section 5006, such revised standard.
       (5) Ballast water management system.--The term ``ballast 
     water management system'' means any system, including all 
     ballast water treatment equipment and all associated control 
     and monitoring equipment, that processes ballast water--
       (A) to kill, render nonviable, or remove organisms; or
       (B) to avoid the uptake or discharge of organisms.
       (6) Best available technology economically achievable.--The 
     term ``best available technology economically achievable'' 
     has the meaning given that term in sections 301(b)(2)(A) and 
     304(b)(2)(B) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 
     U.S.C. 1311(b)(2)(A) and 1314(b)(2)(B)) as such term applies 
     to a mobile point source.
       (7) Biocide.--The term ``biocide'' means a substance or 
     organism that is introduced into or produced by a ballast 
     water management system to kill or eliminate aquatic nuisance 
     species as part of the process used to comply with a ballast 
     water discharge standard.
       (8) Captain of the port zone.--The term ``Captain of the 
     Port Zone'' means a Captain of the Port Zone established by 
     Secretary pursuant to sections 92, 93, and 633 of title 14, 
     United States Code.
       (9) Commercial vessel.--
       (A) In general.--The term ``commercial vessel'' means a 
     vessel (as defined in section 3 of title 1, United States 
     Code) that is engaged in commercial service (as defined in 
     section 2101(5) of title 46, United States Code).
       (B) Exclusion.--The term ``commercial vessel'' does not 
     include a recreational vessel.
       (10) Discharge incidental to the normal operation of a 
     commercial vessel.--
       (A) In general.--The term ``discharge incidental to the 
     normal operation of a commercial vessel'' means--
       (i) a discharge into navigable waters of the United States 
     from a commercial vessel of--

       (I)(aa) graywater, bilge water, cooling water, oil water 
     separator effluent, anti-fouling hull coating leachate, 
     boiler or economizer blowdown, byproducts from cathodic 
     protection, controllable pitch propeller and thruster 
     hydraulic fluid, distillation and reverse osmosis brine, 
     elevator pit effluent, firemain system effluent, freshwater 
     layup effluent, gas turbine wash water, motor gasoline and 
     compensating effluent, refrigeration and air condensate 
     effluent, seawater piping biofouling prevention substances, 
     boat engine wet exhaust, sonar dome effluent, exhaust gas 
     scrubber washwater, or stern tube packing gland effluent; or
       (bb) any other pollutant associated with the operation of a 
     marine propulsion system, shipboard maneuvering system, 
     habitability system, or installed major equipment, or from a 
     protective, preservative, or absorptive application to the 
     hull of a commercial vessel;
       (II) deck runoff, deck washdown, above the waterline hull 
     cleaning effluent, aqueous film forming foam effluent, chain 
     locker effluent, non-oily machinery wastewater, underwater 
     ship husbandry effluent, welldeck effluent, or fish hold and 
     fish hold cleaning effluent; or
       (III) any effluent from a properly functioning marine 
     engine; or

       (ii) a discharge of a pollutant into navigable waters of 
     the United States in connection with the testing, 
     maintenance, or repair of a system, equipment, or engine 
     described in subclause (I)(bb) or (III) of clause (i) 
     whenever the commercial vessel is waterborne.
       (B) Exclusions.--The term ``discharge incidental to the 
     normal operation of a commercial vessel'' does not include--
       (i) any discharge into navigable waters of the United 
     States from a commercial vessel of--

       (I) ballast water;
       (II) rubbish, trash, garbage, incinerator ash, or other 
     such material discharged overboard;
       (III) oil or a hazardous substance (as such terms are 
     defined in section 311 of the Federal Water Pollution Control 
     Act (33 U.S.C. 1321)); or
       (IV) sewage (as defined in section 312(a)(6) of the Federal 
     Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1322(a)(6))); or

       (ii) any emission of an air pollutant resulting from the 
     operation onboard a commercial vessel of a commercial vessel 
     propulsion system, motor driven equipment, or incinerator;
       (iii) any discharge into navigable waters of the United 
     States from a commercial vessel when the commercial vessel is 
     operating in a capacity other than as a means of 
     transportation on water; or
       (iv) any discharge that results from an activity other than 
     the normal operation of a commercial vessel.
       (11) Empty ballast tank.--The term ``empty ballast tank'' 
     means a tank--
       (A) intended to hold ballast water that has been drained to 
     the limit of the functional or operational capabilities of 
     such tank, such as loss of suction, and otherwise recorded as 
     empty on a vessel log; and
       (B) that contains unpumpable residual ballast water and 
     sediments.
       (12) Exchange.--The term ``exchange'' means, with respect 
     to ballast water, to replace the water in a ballast water 
     tank using one of the following methods:
       (A) Flow-through exchange, in which ballast water is 
     flushed out by pumping in mid-ocean water at the bottom of 
     the tank and continuously overflowing the tank from the top 
     until three full volumes of water has been changed to 
     minimize the number of original organisms remaining in the 
     tank.
       (B) Empty and refill exchange, in which ballast water taken 
     on in ports, estuarine waters, or territorial waters is 
     pumped out until the pump loses suction, after which the

[[Page S6675]]

     ballast tank is refilled with mid-ocean water.
       (13) General permit.--The term ``General Permit'' means the 
     Final National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Vessel 
     General Permit for Discharges Incidental to the Normal 
     Operation of a Vessel noticed in the Federal Register on 
     April 12, 2013 (78 Fed. Reg. 21938).
       (14) Great lakes states.--The term ``Great Lakes States'' 
     means Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, New York, Ohio, 
     Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin.
       (15) Indian tribe.--The term ``Indian tribe'' has the 
     meaning given that term in section 4(e) of the Indian Self-
     Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 
     5304(e)).
       (16) Major conversion.--The term ``major conversion'' has 
     the meaning given that term in section 2101(14a) of title 46, 
     United States Code.
       (17) Marine pollution control device.--The term ``marine 
     pollution control device'' means any equipment for 
     installation or use on board a commercial vessel that is--
       (A) designed to receive, retain, treat, control, or 
     discharge a discharge incidental to the normal operation of a 
     commercial vessel; and
       (B) determined by the Secretary, in consultation with the 
     Administrator, to be the most effective equipment or 
     management practice to reduce the environmental impact of the 
     discharge consistent with the considerations set forth in 
     section 5008(a)(2).
       (18) Mid-ocean water.--The term ``mid-ocean water'' means 
     water greater than 200 nautical miles from any shore.
       (19) Navigable waters of the united states.--The term 
     ``navigable waters of the United States'' has the meaning 
     given that term in section 2101(17a) of title 46, United 
     States Code.
       (20) Organism.--The term ``organism'' means any organism 
     and includes pathogens, microbes, viruses, bacteria, and 
     fungi.
       (21) Owner or operator.--The term ``owner or operator'' 
     means a person owning, operating, or chartering by demise a 
     commercial vessel.
       (22) Pacific coast region.--The term ``Pacific Coast 
     Region'' means Federal and State waters adjacent to Alaska, 
     Washington, Oregon, or California extending from shore and 
     including the entire exclusive economic zone (as defined in 
     section 1001(8) of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (33 U.S.C. 
     2701(8)) adjacent to each such State.
       (23) Pollutant.--The term ``pollutant'' has the meaning 
     given that term in section 502(6) of the Federal Water 
     Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1362(6)).
       (24) Port or place of destination.--The term ``port or 
     place of destination'' means any port or place to which a 
     vessel is bound to anchor or moor.
       (25) Recreational vessel.--The term ``recreational vessel'' 
     has the meaning given that term in section 2101(25) of title 
     46, United States Code.
       (26) Render nonviable.--The term ``render nonviable'' 
     means, with respect to organisms in ballast water, the action 
     of a ballast water management system that leaves such 
     organisms permanently incapable of reproduction following 
     treatment.
       (27) Saltwater flush.--The term ``saltwater flush''--
       (A) means--
       (i) the addition of as much mid-ocean water into each empty 
     ballast tank of a commercial vessel as is safe for such 
     vessel and crew and the mixing of the flushwater with 
     residual water and sediment through the motion of such 
     vessel; and
       (ii) the discharge of the mixed water, such that the 
     resultant residual water remaining in the tank has the 
     highest salinity possible, and is at least 30 parts per 
     thousand; and
       (B) may require more than one fill-mix-empty sequence, 
     particularly if only small amounts of water can be safely 
     taken onboard the commercial vessel at one time.
       (28) Secretary.--Except as otherwise specified, the term 
     ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the department in which 
     the Coast Guard is operating.

     SEC. 5003. TREATMENT OF EXISTING BALLAST WATER REGULATIONS.

       (a) Effect on Existing Regulations.--Any regulation issued 
     pursuant to the Nonindigenous Aquatic Nuisance Prevention and 
     Control Act of 1990 (16 U.S.C. 4701 et seq.) that is in 
     effect on the day before the date of the enactment of this 
     Act, and that relates to a matter subject to regulation under 
     this title, shall remain in full force and effect unless or 
     until superseded by a new regulation issued under this title 
     relating to such matter.
       (b) Application of Other Regulations.--
       (1) In general.--The regulations issued pursuant to the 
     Nonindigenous Aquatic Nuisance Prevention and Control Act of 
     1990 (16 U.S.C. 4701 et seq.) relating to sanctions for 
     violating a regulation under that Act shall apply to 
     violations of a regulation issued under this title.
       (2) Penalties.--The penalties for violations described in 
     paragraph (1) shall increase consistent with inflation.

     SEC. 5004. BALLAST WATER DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS.

       (a) In General.--
       (1) Requirements.--Except as provided in paragraph (7), and 
     subject to sections 151.2035 and 151.2036 of title 33, Code 
     of Federal Regulations (as in effect on the date of the 
     enactment of this Act), an owner or operator may discharge 
     ballast water into navigable waters of the United States from 
     a commercial vessel covered under subsection (b) only if--
       (A) by applying the best available technology economically 
     achievable, the discharge meets the ballast water discharge 
     standard; and
       (B) the owner or operator discharges the ballast water in 
     accordance with other requirements established by the 
     Secretary.
       (2) Commercial vessels entering the great lakes system.--If 
     a commercial vessel enters the Great Lakes through the mouth 
     of the Saint Lawrence River, the owner or operator shall--
       (A) comply with the applicable requirements of--
       (i) paragraph (1);
       (ii) subpart C of part 151 of title 33, Code of Federal 
     Regulations (or similar successor regulations); and
       (iii) section 401.30 of such title (or similar successor 
     regulations); and
       (B) after operating--
       (i) outside the exclusive economic zone of the United 
     States or Canada, conduct a complete ballast water exchange 
     in an area that is 200 nautical miles or more from any shore 
     before the owner or operator may discharge ballast water 
     while operating in the Saint Lawrence River or the Great 
     Lakes, subject to any requirements the Secretary determines 
     necessary with regard to such exchange or any ballast water 
     management system that is to be used in conjunction with such 
     exchange, to ensure that any discharge of ballast water 
     complies with the requirements under paragraph (1); or
       (ii) exclusively within the territorial waters or exclusive 
     economic zone of the United States or Canada, conduct a 
     complete ballast water exchange outside the St. Lawrence 
     River and the Great Lakes in an area that is 50 nautical 
     miles or more from any shore before the owner or operator may 
     discharge ballast water while operating in the Saint Lawrence 
     River or the Great Lakes, subject to any requirements the 
     Secretary determines necessary with regard to such exchange 
     or any ballast water management system that is to be used in 
     conjunction with such exchange, to ensure that any discharge 
     of ballast water complies with the requirements under 
     paragraph (1).
       (3) Commercial vessels operating within the pacific coast 
     region.--
       (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph (C) and 
     paragraph (6), the owner or operator of a commercial vessel 
     described in subparagraph (B) shall conduct a complete 
     ballast water exchange in waters more than 50 nautical miles 
     from shore.
       (B) Commercial vessel described.--A commercial vessel 
     described in this subparagraph is a commercial vessel--
       (i) operating between two ports or places of destination 
     within the Pacific Coast Region; or
       (ii) operating between a port or place of destination 
     within the Pacific Coast Region and a port or place of 
     destination on the Pacific Coast of Canada or Mexico north of 
     20 degrees north latitude, inclusive of the Gulf of 
     California.
       (C) Exemptions.--Subparagraph (A) shall not apply to the 
     following:
       (i) A commercial vessel voyaging between or to a port or 
     place of destination in the State of Washington, if the 
     ballast water to be discharged from such vessel originated 
     solely from waters located between the parallel 43 degrees, 
     32 minutes north latitude, including the internal waters of 
     the Columbia River, and the internal waters of Canada south 
     of parallel 50 degrees north latitude, including the waters 
     of the Strait of Georgia and the Strait of Juan de Fuca.
       (ii) A commercial vessel voyaging between ports or places 
     of destination in the States of Washington and Oregon if the 
     ballast water to be discharged from such vessel originated 
     solely from waters located between the parallel 40 degrees 
     north latitude and the parallel 50 degrees north latitude.
       (iii) A commercial vessel voyaging between ports or places 
     of destination in the State of California within the San 
     Francisco Bay area east of the Golden Gate Bridge, including 
     the Port of Stockton and the Port of Sacramento, if any 
     ballast water to be discharged from such vessel originated 
     solely from ports or places within such area.
       (iv) A commercial vessel voyaging between the Port of Los 
     Angeles, the Port of Long Beach, and the El Segundo offshore 
     marine oil terminal if any ballast water to be discharged 
     from such vessel originated solely from the Port of Los 
     Angeles, the Port of Long Beach, or the El Segundo offshore 
     marine oil terminal.
       (v) A commercial vessel voyaging between a port or place in 
     the State of Alaska within a single Captain of the Port Zone.
       (4) Empty ballast tanks.--
       (A) Requirements.--Except as provided in subparagraph (B) 
     and paragraph (6), the owner or operator of a commercial 
     vessel with empty ballast tanks shall conduct a saltwater 
     flush--
       (i) at least 200 nautical miles from any shore for voyages 
     originating outside the United States or Canadian exclusive 
     economic zone; or
       (ii) at least 50 nautical miles from any shore for voyages 
     within the Pacific Coast Region.
       (B) Exception.--The requirements of subparagraph (A) shall 
     not apply--

[[Page S6676]]

       (i) if a ballast tank's unpumpable residual waters and 
     sediments were subject to a saltwater flush, ballast water 
     exchange, or treatment through a ballast water management 
     system; or
       (ii) unless otherwise required under this title, if the 
     ballast tank's unpumpable residual waters and sediments were 
     sourced within the same port or place of destination, or 
     Captain of the Port Zone.
       (5) Low salinity ballast water.--
       (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph (B) and 
     paragraph (6), owners or operators of commercial vessels that 
     voyage to a Pacific Coast Region port or place of destination 
     that has a measured salinity of less than 18 parts per 
     thousand shall conduct a complete ballast water exchange--
       (i) more than 50 nautical miles from shore if the ballast 
     water was sourced from a Pacific Coast Region port or place 
     of destination; or
       (ii) more than 200 nautical miles from shore if the ballast 
     water was not sourced from a Pacific Coast Region port or 
     place of destination.
       (B) Exception.--The requirements of subparagraph (A) shall 
     not apply to a commercial vessel that has a ballast water 
     management system approved for treating freshwater at 
     concentrations prescribed in section 5006(a)(1)(A) or that 
     retains all of its ballast water.
       (6) Exempted vessels.--The requirements of paragraphs (3), 
     (4), and (5) shall not apply to a commercial vessel if--
       (A) complying with such requirements would compromise the 
     safety of the commercial vessel;
       (B) design limitations of the commercial vessel prevent 
     ballast water exchange or saltwater flush from being 
     conducted;
       (C) the commercial vessel uses a method of ballast water 
     management approved by the Coast Guard under section 5005 of 
     this title or subpart 162.060 of title 46, Code of Federal 
     Regulations (or similar successor regulation);
       (D) the commercial vessel is certified by the Secretary as 
     having no residual ballast water or sediments on board or 
     retains all its ballast water while in waters subject to such 
     requirements; or
       (E) empty ballast tanks on the commercial vessel are sealed 
     and certified by the Secretary so there is no discharge or 
     uptake and subsequent discharge of ballast waters subject to 
     such requirements.
       (7) Safety exemption.--Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) 
     through (6), an owner or operator of a commercial vessel may 
     discharge ballast water into navigable waters of the United 
     States from a commercial vessel if--
       (A) the ballast water is discharged solely to ensure the 
     safety of life at sea;
       (B) the ballast water is discharged accidentally as the 
     result of damage to the commercial vessel or its equipment 
     and--
       (i) all reasonable precautions to prevent or minimize the 
     discharge have been taken; and
       (ii) the owner or operator did not willfully or recklessly 
     cause such damage; or
       (C) the ballast water is discharged solely for the purpose 
     of avoiding or minimizing a discharge from the commercial 
     vessel of a pollutant that would violate a Federal or State 
     law.
       (8) Logbook requirements.--Section 11301(b) of title 46, 
     United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new paragraph:
       ``(13) when the commercial vessel does not carry out 
     ballast water management requirements as applicable and 
     pursuant to regulations promulgated and issued by the 
     Secretary, including when a vessel fails to carry out ballast 
     water management requirements due to an allowed safety 
     exemption, a statement about the failure to comply and the 
     circumstances under which the failure occurred, made 
     immediately after when practicable to do so.''.
       (9) Limitation of requirements.--In establishing 
     requirements under this subsection, the Secretary may not 
     require the installation of a ballast water management system 
     on a commercial vessel that--
       (A) carries all of its ballast water in sealed tanks that--
       (i) are not subject to discharge;
       (ii) have been certified by the Secretary; and
       (iii) have been noted in the commercial vessel logbook; or
       (B) discharges ballast water solely into a reception 
     facility described in subsection (d).
       (b) Applicability.--
       (1) Covered vessels.--Except as provided in paragraphs (2) 
     and (3), subsection (a) shall apply to any commercial vessel 
     that is designed, constructed, or adapted to carry ballast 
     water while such commercial vessel is operating in navigable 
     waters of the United States.
       (2) Exempted vessels.--Subsection (a) shall not apply to a 
     commercial vessel--
       (A) that continuously takes on and discharges ballast water 
     in a flow-through system, if such system does not introduce 
     aquatic nuisance species into navigable waters of the United 
     States, as determined by the Secretary;
       (B) in the National Defense Reserve Fleet that is scheduled 
     for disposal, if the vessel does not have ballast water 
     management systems or the ballast water management systems of 
     the vessel are inoperable;
       (C) that discharges ballast water consisting solely of 
     water taken aboard from a public or commercial source that, 
     at the time the water is taken aboard, meets the applicable 
     regulations or permit requirements for such source under the 
     Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300f et seq.);
       (D) in an alternative compliance program established 
     pursuant to subsection (c);
       (E) that carries all of its permanent ballast water in 
     sealed tanks that are not subject to discharge; or
       (F) uses other liquid or material as ballast and does not 
     discharge ballast overboard.
       (3) Exemption for great lakes and saint lawrence river.--
       (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraphs (B) through (F), 
     subsection (a) shall not apply to a commercial vessel that 
     operates exclusively within the Great Lakes and Saint 
     Lawrence River and is not required to comply with the ballast 
     water discharge standard on the day before the date of the 
     enactment of this Act.
       (B) Termination of exemption.--The Secretary shall 
     terminate the exemption for a class of commercial vessels 
     described in subparagraph (A) if the Secretary--
       (i) based on testing using water from the Great Lakes, 
     approves a ballast water management system for such class of 
     vessels under section 5005 of this title or subpart 162.060 
     of title 46, Code of Federal Regulations (or similar 
     successor regulation);
       (ii) determines that such ballast water management system 
     meets the practicability criteria described in section 
     5006(b)(2) with respect to such class of vessels complying 
     with the ballast water discharge standard;
       (iii) determines that requiring such class of vessels to 
     comply with the ballast water discharge standard is 
     operationally practicable for such class of vessels; and
       (iv) in consultation with the Administrator, determines 
     that the most probable environmental benefits, as described 
     in subparagraph (E), resulting from a requirement that such 
     class of vessels comply with the ballast water discharge 
     standard exceed the most probable economic costs, as 
     described in subparagraph (F), resulting from such 
     compliance.
       (C) Timing of determinations.--
       (i) In general.--Not later than one year after the approval 
     and determinations described in clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) 
     of subparagraph (B) are made, the Secretary, in consultation 
     with the Administrator, shall determine whether the benefits 
     described in clause (iv) of such subparagraph exceed the 
     costs described in such clause (iv).
       (ii) Reconsideration.--If the benefits described in 
     subparagraph (B)(iv) do not exceed the costs described in 
     such subparagraph for a class of commercial vessels described 
     in subparagraph (A), the Secretary, in consultation with the 
     Administrator, shall reconsider the determination of the 
     Secretary under clause (i)--

       (I) if a petition is received from a Governor of a Great 
     Lakes State that--

       (aa) includes new data or science not considered during 
     such determination; and
       (bb) is submitted not less than one year after such 
     determination; or

       (II) not later than five years after such determination.

       (D) Compliance deadline.--A class of commercial vessels for 
     which the exemption under subparagraph (A) has been 
     terminated under subparagraph (B) shall comply with the 
     ballast water discharge standard after completion of the 
     first scheduled dry docking of each such vessel that 
     commences on or after the date that is three years after the 
     date that the Secretary informs the owner or operator of such 
     vessel of such termination.
       (E) Most probable environmental benefits described.--The 
     most probable environmental benefits resulting from a 
     requirement that a class of commercial vessels described in 
     subparagraph (A) comply with the ballast water discharge 
     standard are the net environmental benefits, as determined by 
     the Administrator--
       (i) gained from the most probable reduction in risk of 
     establishment of aquatic nuisance species in navigable waters 
     of the United States within the Great Lakes and Saint 
     Lawrence River resulting from compliance with subsection (a) 
     by such class of vessels; and
       (ii) as reduced by the extent to which such environmental 
     benefits most probably would not be achieved as a result of 
     the most probable risks of such establishment from other 
     vectors.
       (F) Most probable economic costs described.--The most 
     probable economic costs resulting from a requirement that a 
     class of commercial vessels described in subparagraph (A) 
     comply with the ballast water discharge standard are the net 
     costs and foregone revenues resulting from such compliance 
     that most probably will be incurred, as determined by the 
     Secretary, by the--
       (i) owners and operators of such class of vessels, 
     including the costs of installation and maintenance of 
     ballast water management systems not passed on to customers 
     and reductions in business activity due to lifetime reduction 
     in cargo capacity and customer demand for cargo 
     transportation services;
       (ii) customers of such class of vessels, including 
     reductions in business activity, shifts to other 
     transportation modes, and loss of competitiveness as a result 
     of the costs described in clause (i) passed on to such 
     customers; and
       (iii) employees of such owners, operators, and customers, 
     including reductions or foregone increases in jobs, wages, 
     and benefits resulting from costs described in clauses (i) 
     and (ii).

[[Page S6677]]

       (c) Alternative Compliance Program.--The Secretary, in 
     consultation with the Administrator and the Governors of the 
     States, may issue a rule establishing one or more compliance 
     programs that may be used by an owner or operator as an 
     alternative to compliance with the requirements of subsection 
     (a) for a commercial vessel that--
       (1) has a maximum ballast water capacity of less than eight 
     cubic meters; or
       (2) is less than 3 years from the end of the service life 
     of the commercial vessel, as determined by the Secretary.
       (d) Reception Facilities.--
       (1) In general.--Notwithstanding the requirements under 
     subsection (a), an owner or operator may discharge ballast 
     water into an onshore or offshore facility for the reception 
     of ballast water that meets the standards established by the 
     Administrator, in consultation with the Secretary, under 
     paragraph (2).
       (2) Issuance of standards.--Not later than one year after 
     the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator, in 
     consultation with the Secretary, shall publish a rule in the 
     Federal Register that establishes reasonable and practicable 
     standards for reception facilities to receive vessel ballast 
     water to mitigate adverse effects of aquatic nuisance species 
     on navigable waters of the United States.
       (3) Transfer standards.--The Secretary, in coordination 
     with the Administrator, may promulgate standards for the 
     arrangements necessary on a vessel to transfer ballast water 
     to a facility.

     SEC. 5005. APPROVAL OF BALLAST WATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS.

       (a) Ballast Water Management Systems That Render Organisms 
     Nonviable.--Notwithstanding chapter 5 of title 5, United 
     States Code, part 151 of title 33, Code of Federal 
     Regulations (or similar successor regulation), and part 162 
     of title 46, Code of Federal Regulations (or similar 
     successor regulation), a ballast water management system that 
     renders nonviable organisms in ballast water at the 
     concentrations prescribed in the ballast water discharge 
     standard shall be approved by the Secretary, if--
       (1) such system--
       (A) undergoes type approval testing at an independent 
     laboratory designated by the Secretary under such 
     regulations; and
       (B) meets the requirements of subpart 162.060 of title 46, 
     Code of Federal Regulations (or similar successor 
     regulation), other than the requirements related to staining 
     methods or measuring the concentration of living organisms; 
     and
       (2) such laboratory uses a testing method described in a 
     final policy letter published under subsection (c)(3).
       (b) Prohibition on Biocides.--The Secretary shall not 
     approve a ballast water management system under subsection 
     (a) or subpart 162.060 of title 46, Code of Federal 
     Regulations (or similar successor regulations), if such 
     system--
       (1) uses a biocide or generates a biocide that is a 
     pesticide, as defined in section 2 of the Federal 
     Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 136), 
     unless the biocide is registered under that Act or the 
     Administrator has approved the use of the biocide in such 
     ballast water management system; or
       (2) uses or generates a biocide the discharge of which 
     causes or contributes to a violation of a water quality 
     standard under section 303 of the Federal Water Pollution 
     Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1313).
       (c) Approval Testing Methods.--
       (1) Draft policy.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in coordination 
     with the Administrator, shall publish a draft policy letter, 
     based on the best available science, describing type approval 
     testing methods and protocols for ballast water management 
     systems that may be used in addition to the methods 
     established in subpart 162.060 of title 46, Code of Federal 
     Regulations (or similar successor regulation)--
       (A) to measure the concentration of organisms in ballast 
     water that are capable of reproduction;
       (B) to certify the performance of each ballast water 
     management system under this section; and
       (C) to certify laboratories to evaluate such treatment 
     technologies.
       (2) Public comment.--The Secretary shall provide for a 
     period of not more than 60 days for the public to comment on 
     the draft policy letter published under paragraph (1).
       (3) Final policy.--
       (A) In general.--Not later than 150 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in coordination 
     with the Administrator, shall publish a final policy letter 
     describing type approval testing methods for ballast water 
     management systems capable of measuring the concentration of 
     organisms in ballast water that are capable of reproduction 
     based on the best available science that may be used in 
     addition to the methods established in subpart 162.060 of 
     title 46, Code of Federal Regulations (or similar successor 
     regulation).
       (B) Revisions.--The Secretary shall revise the final policy 
     letter published under subparagraph (A) as additional testing 
     methods are determined by the Secretary, in coordination with 
     the Administrator, to be capable of measuring the 
     concentration of organisms in ballast water that are capable 
     of reproduction.
       (C) Considerations.--In developing a policy letter under 
     this paragraph, the Secretary, in coordination with the 
     Administrator--
       (i) shall consider a testing method that uses organism grow 
     out and most probable number statistical analysis to 
     determine the concentration of organisms in ballast water 
     that are capable of reproduction; and
       (ii) shall not consider a testing method that relies on a 
     staining method that measures the concentration of organisms 
     greater than or equal to 10 micrometers and organisms less 
     than or equal to 50 micrometers.

     SEC. 5006. REVIEW AND RAISING OF BALLAST WATER DISCHARGE 
                   STANDARD.

       (a) Effectiveness Reviews.--
       (1) Six-year review.--
       (A) In general.--Not later than January 1, 2024, and 
     subject to petitions for review under paragraph (3), the 
     Administrator, in consultation with the Secretary, shall 
     complete an effectiveness review to determine whether, based 
     on the application of the best available technology 
     economically achievable, the ballast water discharge standard 
     can be revised such that ballast water discharged in the 
     normal operation of a vessel contains--
       (i) less than 1 organism that is living or has not been 
     rendered nonviable per 10 cubic meters that is 50 or more 
     micrometers in minimum dimension;
       (ii) less than 1 organism that is living or has not been 
     rendered nonviable per 10 milliliters that is less than 50 
     micrometers in minimum dimension and more than 10 micrometers 
     in minimum dimension;
       (iii) concentrations of indicator microbes that are less 
     than--

       (I) 1 colony-forming unit of toxicogenic Vibrio cholera 
     (serotypes O1 and O139) per 100 milliliters or less than 1 
     colony-forming unit of that microbe per gram of wet weight of 
     zoological samples;
       (II) 126 colony-forming units of escherichia coli per 100 
     milliliters; and
       (III) 33 colony-forming units of intestinal enterococci per 
     100 milliliters; and

       (iv) concentrations of such additional indicator microbes 
     and of viruses as may be specified in regulations issued by 
     the Secretary, in consultation with the Administrator and 
     such other Federal agencies as the Secretary and the 
     Administrator consider appropriate.
       (B) Alternative revised standard.--If the Administrator 
     finds--
       (i) that the ballast water discharge standard cannot be 
     revised to reflect the level of stringency set forth in 
     subparagraph (A), the Administrator shall determine whether 
     the application of the best available technology economically 
     achievable would result in a reduction of the risk of 
     introduction or establishment of aquatic nuisance species 
     such that the ballast water discharge standard can be revised 
     be more stringent than the standard set forth in section 
     151.2030 or 151.1511 of title 33, Code of Federal 
     Regulations, as in effect on the date of the enactment of 
     this Act; or
       (ii) that the best available technology economically 
     achievable is more stringent than the standard under 
     subparagraph (A) with respect to a class of vessels, the 
     Administrator shall determine whether the ballast water 
     discharge standard can be revised for that class of vessels 
     to incorporate such more stringent standard.
       (2) Ten-year reviews.--Not later than January 1, 2034, not 
     less frequently than every 10 years thereafter, and subject 
     to petitions for review under paragraph (3), the 
     Administrator shall conduct an effectiveness review to 
     determine whether the application of the best available 
     technology economically achievable results in a reduction in 
     the risk of the introduction or establishment of aquatic 
     nuisance species such that the ballast water discharge 
     standard can be revised.
       (3) State petitions for review.--
       (A) In general.--The Governor of a State may submit a 
     petition requesting the Administrator to conduct a review 
     under paragraph (1) or (2) if there is new information that 
     could reasonably indicate the ballast water discharge 
     standard could be made more stringent to reduce the risk of 
     the introduction or establishment of aquatic nuisance 
     species.
       (B) Timing.--A Governor may not submit a petition under 
     subparagraph (A) during the 1-year period following the date 
     of completion of a review under paragraph (1) or (2).
       (C) Required information.--A petition submitted to the 
     Administrator under subparagraph (A) shall include--
       (i) a proposed ballast water discharge standard that would 
     result in a reduction in the risk of the introduction or 
     establishment of aquatic nuisance species;
       (ii) information regarding any ballast water management 
     systems that may achieve the proposed ballast water discharge 
     standard;
       (iii) the scientific and technical information on which the 
     petition is based, including a description of the risk 
     reduction that would result from the proposed ballast water 
     discharge standard included under clause (i); and
       (iv) any additional information the Administrator considers 
     appropriate.
       (D) Public availability.--Upon receiving a petition under 
     subparagraph (A), the Administrator shall make publicly 
     available a copy of the petition, including the information 
     included under subparagraph (C).
       (E) Treatment of more than one petition as a single 
     petition.--The Administrator may treat more than one petition 
     submitted under subparagraph (A) as a single such petition.

[[Page S6678]]

       (F) Authority to review.--After receiving a petition that 
     meets the requirements of this paragraph, the Administrator, 
     in consultation with the Secretary, may conduct a review 
     under paragraph (1) or (2) or such other review as the 
     Administrator, in consultation with the Secretary, determines 
     appropriate.
       (4) Agency action.--In any review under this subsection in 
     which the Administrator determines--
       (A) that the ballast water discharge standard can be made 
     more stringent, the Administrator shall--
       (i) promptly publish such determination in the Federal 
     Register and on a publically available website; and
       (ii) inform the Secretary of such determination; or
       (B) that the ballast water discharge standard cannot be 
     made more stringent, the Administrator shall--
       (i) promptly publish such determination, together with a 
     detailed, written justification, in the Federal Register and 
     on a publically available website; and
       (ii) provide a copy of the documents required under clause 
     (i) to any State that has petitioned the Administrator for 
     the review.
       (b) Practicability Review.--
       (1) In general.--If the Administrator determines under 
     subsection (a) that the ballast water discharge standard can 
     be made more stringent, the Secretary, in consultation with 
     the Administrator, shall conduct a practicability review, 
     considering the findings under such subsection, to determine 
     whether--
       (A) a ballast water management system that is capable of 
     achieving the ballast water discharge standard as proposed to 
     be revised is operationally practicable; and
       (B) testing protocols can be practicably implemented that 
     can assure accurate measurement of compliance with the 
     ballast water discharge standard as proposed to be revised.
       (2) Criteria for practicability review.--In conducting a 
     practicability review under paragraph (1), the Secretary and 
     the Administrator shall consider--
       (A) improvements in ballast water management systems, 
     including--
       (i) the effectiveness and reliability of such systems in 
     the shipboard environment;
       (ii) the compatibility of such systems with the design and 
     operation of a commercial vessel by class, type, and size;
       (iii) the commercial availability of such systems; and
       (iv) the safety of such systems;
       (B) improvements in the capabilities to detect, quantify, 
     and assess whether aquatic nuisance species are capable of 
     reproduction in order to determine compliance with the 
     ballast water discharge standard as proposed to be revised;
       (C) the costs, cost-effectiveness, and effects of--
       (i) a revised ballast water discharge standard; and
       (ii) maintaining the existing ballast water discharge 
     standard; and
       (D) other criteria that the Secretary and the Administrator 
     consider appropriate.
       (3) Information from states.--In conducting a 
     practicability review under paragraph (1), the Secretary 
     shall solicit information from the States concerning matters 
     the Secretary and the Administrator are required to consider 
     under paragraph (2).
       (c) Issuance of Revised Ballast Water Discharge Standard.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary shall issue a rule to revise 
     the ballast water discharge standard if the Secretary, in 
     consultation with the Administrator, determines on the basis 
     of the practicability review under subsection (b) that--
       (A) a ballast water management system that is capable of 
     achieving the ballast water discharge standard as proposed to 
     be revised is the best available technology, economically 
     achievable, and operationally practicable; and
       (B) testing protocols can be practicably implemented that 
     can assure accurate measurement of compliance with the 
     ballast water discharge standard as proposed to be revised.
       (2) Standard not revised.--If the Secretary, in 
     consultation with the Administrator, determines that the 
     requirements of paragraph (1) have not been satisfied, the 
     Secretary shall publish a description of how such 
     determination was made.
       (3) Requirement.--Any modified ballast water discharge 
     standard issued in the rule under paragraph (1) shall be more 
     stringent than the ballast water discharge standard it 
     replaces.
       (d) Revised Ballast Water Discharge Standard Effective Date 
     and Compliance Deadline.--
       (1) In general.--If the Secretary issues a rule to revise 
     the ballast water discharge standard under subsection (c), 
     the Secretary shall include in such rule--
       (A) an effective date for the revised ballast discharge 
     standard that is 3 years after the date on which such rule is 
     published in the Federal Register; and
       (B) for the owner or operator of a commercial vessel that 
     is constructed or completes a major conversion on or after 
     the date that is 3 years after the date on which such rule is 
     published in the Federal Register, a deadline to comply with 
     the revised ballast water discharge standard that is the 
     first day on which such commercial vessel operates in 
     navigable waters of the United States.
       (2) Vessel specific compliance deadlines.--The Secretary 
     may establish a deadline for compliance by a commercial 
     vessel (or a class, type, or size of commercial vessel) with 
     a revised ballast water discharge standard that is different 
     than the general deadline established under paragraph (1).
       (3) Extensions.--The Secretary shall establish a process 
     for an owner or operator to submit an application to the 
     Secretary for an extension of a compliance deadline 
     established under paragraphs (1) and (2).
       (4) Application for extension.--An owner or operator shall 
     submit an application for an extension under paragraph (3) 
     not less than 90 days prior to the applicable compliance 
     deadline established under paragraph (1) or (2).
       (5) Factors.--In reviewing an application under this 
     subsection, the Secretary shall consider, with respect to the 
     ability of an owner or operator to meet a compliance 
     deadline--
       (A) whether the ballast water management system to be 
     installed, if applicable, is available in sufficient 
     quantities to meet the compliance deadline;
       (B) whether there is sufficient shipyard or other 
     installation facility capacity;
       (C) whether there is sufficient availability of engineering 
     and design resources;
       (D) commercial vessel characteristics, such as engine room 
     size, layout, or a lack of installed piping;
       (E) electric power generating capacity aboard the 
     commercial vessel;
       (F) the safety of the commercial vessel and crew; and
       (G) any other factor that the Secretary determines 
     appropriate.
       (6) Consideration of petitions.--
       (A) Determinations.--The Secretary shall approve or deny an 
     application for an extension of a compliance deadline 
     submitted by an owner or operator under this subsection.
       (B) Deadline.--The Secretary shall--
       (i) acknowledge receipt of an application for an extension 
     submitted under paragraph (4) not later than 30 days after 
     the date of receipt of the application; and
       (ii) to the extent practicable, approve or deny such an 
     application not later than 90 days after the date of receipt 
     of the application.
       (C) Failure to review.--If the Secretary does not approve 
     or deny an application described in subparagraph (A) on or 
     before the last day of the 90-day period beginning on the 
     date of submission of the petition, the petition shall be 
     conditionally approved.
       (7) Period of extensions.--An extension granted to an owner 
     or operator under paragraph (3)--
       (A) may be granted for an initial period of not more than 
     18 months;
       (B) may be renewed for additional periods of not more than 
     18 months each; and
       (C) may not be in effect for a total of more than 5 years.
       (8) Period of use of installed ballast water management 
     system.--
       (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), an owner or 
     operator shall be considered to be in compliance with the 
     ballast water discharge standard if--
       (i) the ballast water management system installed on the 
     commercial vessel complies with the ballast water discharge 
     standard in effect at the time of installation, 
     notwithstanding any revisions to the ballast water discharge 
     standard occurring after the installation;
       (ii) the ballast water management system is maintained in 
     proper working condition, as determined by the Secretary;
       (iii) the ballast water management system is maintained and 
     used in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications; 
     and
       (iv) the ballast water management system continues to meet 
     the ballast water discharge standard applicable to the 
     commercial vessel at the time of installation, as determined 
     by the Secretary.
       (B) Limitation.--Subparagraph (A) shall cease to apply with 
     respect to a commercial vessel after--
       (i) the expiration of the service life of the ballast water 
     management system of the commercial vessel, as determined by 
     the Secretary;
       (ii) the expiration of the service life of the commercial 
     vessel, as determined by the Secretary; or
       (iii) the completion of a major conversion of the 
     commercial vessel.

     SEC. 5007. NATIONAL BALLAST INFORMATION CLEARINGHOUSE.

       Subsection (f) of section 1102 of the Nonindigenous Aquatic 
     Nuisance Prevention and Control Act of 1990 (16 U.S.C. 
     4712(f)) is amended to read as follows:
       ``(f) National Ballast Information Clearinghouse.--
       ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall develop and 
     maintain, in consultation and cooperation with the Task Force 
     and the Smithsonian Institution (acting through the 
     Smithsonian Environmental Research Center), a National 
     Ballast Information Clearinghouse of national data 
     concerning--
       ``(A) ballasting practices;
       ``(B) compliance with the guidelines issued pursuant to 
     section 1101(c); and
       ``(C) any other information obtained by the Task Force 
     pursuant to subsection (b).
       ``(2) Ballast water reporting requirements.--
       ``(A) In general.--The owner or operator of a commercial 
     vessel subject to this Act shall submit the current ballast 
     water management report form approved by the Office

[[Page S6679]]

     of Management and Budget (OMB 1625-0069 or subsequent form) 
     to the National Ballast Information Clearinghouse not later 
     than 6 hours after the arrival of such vessel at a United 
     States port or place, unless such vessel is operating 
     exclusively on a voyage between ports or places within a 
     single Captain of the Port Zone (as established by the 
     Secretary pursuant to sections 92, 93, and 633 of title 14, 
     United States Code).
       ``(B) Multiple discharges within a single port.--The owner 
     or operator of a commercial vessel subject to this Act may 
     submit a single report under subparagraph (A) for multiple 
     ballast water discharges within a single port during the same 
     voyage.
       ``(C) Advanced report to states.--A State may require the 
     owner or operator of a commercial vessel subject to this Act 
     to submit directly to the State a ballast water management 
     report form--
       ``(i) not later than 24 hours prior to arrival at a United 
     States' port or place of destination if the voyage of such 
     vessel is anticipated to exceed 24 hours; or
       ``(ii) before departing the port or place of departure if 
     the voyage of such vessel is not anticipated to exceed 24 
     hours.
       ``(3) Commercial vessel reporting data.--
       ``(A) Dissemination to states.--Upon receiving submission 
     of a ballast water management report required under paragraph 
     (2), the National Ballast Information Clearinghouse shall--
       ``(i) in the case of forms submitted electronically, 
     immediately disseminate the report to interested States; or
       ``(ii) in the case of forms submitted by means other than 
     electronically, disseminate the report to interested States 
     as soon as practicable.
       ``(B) Availability to the public.--Not later than 30 days 
     after the date of the receipt of a ballast water management 
     report required under paragraph (2), the National Ballast 
     Information Clearinghouse shall make the data in such report 
     fully and readily available to the public in searchable and 
     fully retrievable electronic formats.
       ``(4) Report.--In consultation and cooperation with the 
     Task Force and the Smithsonian Institution (acting through 
     the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center), the Secretary 
     shall prepare and submit to the Task Force and the 
     appropriate committees of Congress and make available to the 
     public, on a biennial basis not later than 180 days from the 
     end of each odd numbered calendar year, a report that 
     synthesizes and analyzes the data referred to in paragraph 
     (1) for the previous two years to evaluate nationwide status 
     and trends relating to--
       ``(A) ballast water delivery and management; and
       ``(B) invasions of aquatic nuisance species resulting from 
     ballast water.
       ``(5) Working group.--Not later than one year after the 
     date of the enactment of the Vessel Incidental Discharge Act, 
     the Secretary shall establish a working group that includes 
     members from the National Ballast Information Clearinghouse 
     and States with ballast water management programs to 
     establish a process for compiling and readily sharing Federal 
     and State commercial vessel reporting and enforcement data 
     regarding compliance with this Act.
       ``(6) Appropriate committees of congress defined.--In this 
     subsection, the term `appropriate committees of Congress' 
     means the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
     of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure of the House of Representatives.''.

     SEC. 5008. REQUIREMENTS FOR DISCHARGES INCIDENTAL TO THE 
                   NORMAL OPERATION OF A COMMERCIAL VESSEL.

       (a) Management of Incidental Discharge for Commercial 
     Vessels.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than two years after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in concurrence with 
     the Administrator and in consultation with the States, shall 
     publish a final rule in the Federal Register that establishes 
     best management practices for discharges incidental to the 
     normal operation of a commercial vessel for commercial 
     vessels that--
       (A) are greater than or equal to 79 feet in length;
       (B) are not fishing vessels, including fish processing 
     vessels and fish tender vessels (as such terms are defined in 
     section 2101 of title 46, United States Code); and
       (C) are not subject to the best management practices 
     required under section 5009.
       (2) Elements.--The best management practices established 
     under paragraph (1) shall--
       (A) mitigate the adverse impacts on the marine environment 
     from discharges incidental to the normal operation of a 
     commercial vessel and aquatic invasive species;
       (B) use marine pollution control devices when appropriate;
       (C) be economically achievable and operationally 
     practicable; and
       (D) not compromise the safety of a commercial vessel.
       (3) Implementation.--The Secretary shall implement the best 
     management practices established by final rule under 
     paragraph (1) not later than 60 days after the date on which 
     the final rule is published in the Federal Register as 
     required under such paragraph.
       (b) Transition.--
       (1) In general.--Except as provided in section 5009(c) and 
     notwithstanding the expiration date for the General Permit, 
     any practice, limitation, or concentration applicable to any 
     discharge incidental to the normal operation of a commercial 
     vessel that is required by the General Permit on the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, and any reporting requirement 
     required by the General Permit on such date of enactment, 
     shall remain in effect until the implementation date under 
     subsection (a)(3).
       (2) Part 6 conditions.--Except as provided in section 
     5009(c) and notwithstanding paragraph (1) and any other 
     provision of law, the terms and conditions of Part 6 of the 
     General Permit (relating to specific requirements for 
     individual States or Indian country lands) shall expire on 
     the implementation date under subsection (a)(3).
       (c) Application to Certain Vessels.--
       (1) Application of federal water pollution control act.--No 
     permit shall be required under section 402 of the Federal 
     Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1342) or prohibition 
     enforced under any other provision of law for, nor shall any 
     best management practice regarding a discharge incidental to 
     the normal operation of a commercial vessel under this title 
     apply to, a discharge incidental to the normal operation of a 
     commercial vessel if the commercial vessel--
       (A) is less than 79 feet in length; or
       (B) is a fishing vessel, including a fish processing vessel 
     or fish tender vessel (as such terms are defined in section 
     2101 of title 46, United States Code).
       (2) Application of general permit.--The terms and 
     conditions of the General Permit shall cease to apply to 
     vessels described in subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of 
     paragraph (1) on and after the date of the enactment of this 
     Act.
       (d) Review and Revision.--The Secretary, in concurrence 
     with the Administrator and in consultation with the States, 
     shall--
       (1) review the practices and standards established under 
     subsection (a) not less frequently than once every ten years; 
     and
       (2) revise such practices consistent with the elements 
     described in paragraph (2) of such subsection.
       (e) State Petition for Revision of Best Management 
     Practices.--
       (1) In general.--The Governor of a State may submit a 
     petition to the Secretary requesting that the Secretary, in 
     concurrence with the Administrator, revise a best management 
     practice established under subsection (a) if there is new 
     information that could reasonably indicate that--
       (A) revising the best management practice would--
       (i) mitigate the adverse impacts on the marine environment 
     from discharges incidental to the normal operation of a 
     commercial vessel or from aquatic invasive species; and
       (ii) reduce the adverse effects on navigable waters of the 
     United States of discharges incidental to the normal 
     operation of a commercial vessel; and
       (B) the revised best management practice would be 
     economically achievable and operationally practicable.
       (2) Required information.--A petition submitted to the 
     Secretary under paragraph (1) shall include--
       (A) the scientific and technical information on which the 
     petition is based; and
       (B) any additional information the Secretary and 
     Administrator consider appropriate.
       (3) Public availability.--Upon receiving a petition under 
     paragraph (1), the Secretary shall make publicly available a 
     copy of the petition, including the information included 
     under paragraph (2).
       (4) Treatment of more than one petition as a single 
     petition.--The Secretary may treat more than one petition 
     submitted under paragraph (1) as a single petition.
       (5) Revision of best management practices.--If, after 
     reviewing a petition submitted by a Governor under paragraph 
     (1), the Secretary, in concurrence with the Administrator, 
     determines that revising a best management practice would 
     mitigate the adverse impacts on the marine environment from 
     discharges incidental to the normal operation of a commercial 
     vessel or from aquatic invasive species, the Secretary, in 
     concurrence with the Administrator and in consultation with 
     the States, shall revise such practices consistent with the 
     elements described in subsection (a)(2).
       (f) Repeal of No Permit Requirement.--Public Law 110-299 
     (33 U.S.C. 1342 note) is amended by striking section 2.

     SEC. 5009. BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES FOR GREAT LAKES VESSELS.

       (a) In General.--Not later than two years after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in coordination with 
     the Administrator, shall publish a final rule in the Federal 
     Register that establishes best management practices for--
       (1) ballast water for commercial vessels operating in 
     navigable waters of the United States within the Great Lakes 
     and Saint Lawrence River; and
       (2) discharges incidental to the normal operation of a 
     commercial vessel in navigable waters of the United States 
     for commercial vessels operating exclusively in the Great 
     Lakes and Saint Lawrence River that--
       (A) are greater than or equal to 79 feet in length; and
       (B) are not fishing vessels, including fish processing 
     vessels and fish tender vessels (as such terms are defined in 
     section 2101 of title 46, United States Code).
       (b) Elements.--The Secretary, in coordination with the 
     Administrator and the owners or operators of commercial 
     vessels described

[[Page S6680]]

     in subsection (a), shall ensure that the best management 
     practices established under subsection (a)--
       (1) minimize the risk of establishment of aquatic nuisance 
     species from discharges into or upon navigable waters of the 
     United States from such commercial vessels;
       (2) minimize the discharge of pollutants into or upon 
     navigable waters of the United States from such commercial 
     vessels;
       (3) use the best available technology when appropriate;
       (4) are economically achievable and operationally 
     practicable;
       (5) minimize disruption of commerce;
       (6) do not compromise the safety of a commercial vessel; 
     and
       (7) to the extent possible, apply consistently to all 
     navigable waters of the United States within the Great Lakes 
     and Saint Lawrence River.
       (c) Transition.--
       (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), 
     notwithstanding the expiration date for the General Permit 
     and to the extent to which they do not conflict with section 
     5004(b), the following best management practices applicable 
     to commercial vessels described in subsection (a) shall 
     remain in effect until the date on which the best management 
     practices described in such subsection are implemented under 
     subsection (g):
       (A) Best management practices required by Part 2 of the 
     General Permit.
       (B) Such other practices as required by the Secretary.
       (2) Exception.--Notwithstanding the expiration date for the 
     General Permit and to the extent to which they do not 
     conflict with section 5004(b), the best management practices 
     described by the sections in Part 6 of the General Permit 
     applicable to the Great Lakes States that are applicable to 
     commercial vessels described in subsection (a) shall expire 
     on the date on which the best management practices described 
     in subsection (a) are implemented under subsection (g).
       (d) Outreach.--The Secretary shall solicit recommendations 
     and information from the Great Lakes States, Indian Tribes, 
     owners and operators of vessels described in subsection (a), 
     and other persons that the Secretary considers appropriate in 
     developing best management practices under subsection (a).
       (e) Review and Revision of Best Practices.--Not less 
     frequently than once every 5 years, the Secretary, in 
     coordination with the Administrator, shall review the best 
     management practices established under subsection (a) and 
     revise such practices by rule published in the Federal 
     Register consistent with subsections (b) and (d).
       (f) Revised Practices by State Petition.--
       (1) In general.--The Governor of a Great Lakes State may 
     petition the Secretary to revise current, or employ 
     additional, best management practices, consistent with the 
     elements described in subsection (b), to address new and 
     emerging aquatic nuisance species or pollution threats, 
     implement more effective practices, or update guidelines to 
     harmonize requirements on owners and operators of commercial 
     vessels described in subsection (a).
       (2) Determination.--
       (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after receiving a 
     petition under paragraph (1), the Secretary, in coordination 
     with the Administrator, shall determine which, if any, best 
     management practices included in such petition shall be 
     required of commercial vessels described in subsection (a).
       (B) Consultation.--The Secretary shall consult with the 
     Governors of other Great Lakes States and owners or operators 
     of commercial vessels that would be subject to best 
     management practices pursuant to paragraph (1) before making 
     a determination under subparagraph (A).
       (3) Treatment of petition.--The Secretary may treat more 
     than one petition submitted under paragraph (1) as a single 
     petition.
       (4) Public availability.--The Secretary shall make publicly 
     available a petition and any supporting documentation 
     submitted under paragraph (1) for not less than 60 days prior 
     to approving or disapproving such petition.
       (g) Implementation.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary shall implement the best 
     management practices established by final rule under 
     subsection (a) not later than 60 days after the date on which 
     the final rule is published in the Federal Register as 
     required by such subsection.
       (2) Implementation of practices by state petition.--Not 
     later than 90 days after making a determination under 
     subsection (f)(2), the Secretary shall, by rule published in 
     the Federal Register, require commercial vessels that would 
     be subject to the best management practices described in such 
     subsection to implement such practices.
       (h) Public Availability.--The Secretary shall make publicly 
     available any determination made under this section.

     SEC. 5010. JUDICIAL REVIEW.

       (a) In General.--A person may file a petition for review of 
     a final rule or a final agency action issued under this title 
     in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of 
     Columbia Circuit.
       (b) Deadline.--
       (1) In general.--A petition shall be filed under this 
     section not later than 120 days after the date on which the 
     final rule to be reviewed is published in the Federal 
     Register or the final agency action is issued, as the case 
     may be.
       (2) Exception.--Notwithstanding paragraph (1), a petition 
     that is based solely on grounds that arise after the deadline 
     to file a petition under paragraph (1) has passed may be 
     filed not later than 120 days after the date on which such 
     grounds first arise.

     SEC. 5011. STATE ENFORCEMENT.

       (a) State Authorities.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in coordination 
     with the Governors of the States, shall develop and publish 
     Federal and State inspection, data management, and 
     enforcement procedures for the enforcement of standards and 
     requirements under this title by States.
       (2) Procedures.--Procedures developed and published under 
     paragraph (1)--
       (A) may be periodically updated;
       (B) shall describe the conditions and procedures under 
     which the Secretary may suspend the agreement described in 
     paragraph (3); and
       (C) shall have a mechanism for the Secretary to provide to 
     the Governor of a State, if requested by the Governor, access 
     to Automated Identification System arrival data for inbound 
     vessels to specific ports or places of destination in the 
     State.
       (3) State enforcement.--The Secretary shall enter into an 
     agreement with the Governor of a State to authorize the State 
     to inspect vessels to enforce the provisions of this title in 
     accordance with the procedures developed under paragraph (1).
       (b) Fees.--
       (1) In general.--Subject to paragraphs (2), (3), and (4), a 
     State that assesses a permit fee, inspection fee, or other 
     fee related to the regulation of ballast water or a discharge 
     incidental to the normal operation of a commercial vessel 
     before the date of the enactment of this Act may continue to 
     assess such a fee to cover the costs of program 
     administration, inspection, and enforcement activities by the 
     State.
       (2) Maximum fee.--Except as provided in paragraph (3), a 
     State may assess a fee under this subsection of not more than 
     $1,000 per qualifying voyage to the owner or operator of a 
     commercial vessel arriving at a port or place of destination 
     in the State.
       (3) Commercial vessels engaged in coastwise trade.--A State 
     may not assess more than $5,000 in fees per vessel each year 
     to the owner or operator of a commercial vessel registered 
     under the laws of the United States and lawfully engaged in 
     the coastwise trade.
       (4) Adjustment for inflation.--A State may adjust a fee 
     authorized by this subsection every 5 years to reflect the 
     percentage by which the Consumer Price Index for all urban 
     consumers published by the Department of Labor for the month 
     of October immediately preceding the date of adjustment 
     exceeds the Consumer Price Index for all urban consumers 
     published by the Department of Labor for the month of October 
     that immediately precedes the date that is 5 years before the 
     date of adjustment.
       (5) Qualifying voyage.--In this subsection, the term 
     ``qualifying voyage'' means a vessel arrival at a port or 
     place of destination in a State by a commercial vessel that 
     has operated outside of that State and excludes movement 
     entirely within a single port or place of destination.
       (c) Effect on State Authority.--Except as provided in 
     subsection (a) and as necessary to implement an agreement 
     entered into under such subsection, no State or political 
     subdivision thereof may adopt or enforce any statute, 
     regulation, or other requirement of the State or political 
     subdivision with respect to--
       (1) a discharge into navigable waters of the United States 
     from a commercial vessel of ballast water; or
       (2) a discharge into navigable waters of the United States 
     incidental to the normal operation of a commercial vessel.
       (d) Preservation of Authority.--Nothing in this title may 
     be construed as affecting the authority of a State or 
     political subdivision thereof to adopt or enforce any 
     statute, regulation, or other requirement with respect to any 
     water or other substance discharged or emitted from a vessel 
     in preparation for transport of the vessel by land from one 
     body of water to another body of water.

     SEC. 5012. EFFECT ON OTHER LAWS.

       (a) Application of Federal Water Pollution Control Act.--
       (1) In general.--Except as provided in section 5008(b), on 
     or after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Federal 
     Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.) shall 
     not apply to a discharge into navigable waters of the United 
     States of ballast water from a commercial vessel or a 
     discharge incidental to the normal operation of a commercial 
     vessel.
       (2) Oil and hazardous substance liability; marine 
     sanitation devices.--Nothing in this title may be construed 
     as affecting the application to a commercial vessel of 
     section 311 or 312 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act 
     (33 U.S.C. 1321; 1322).
       (b) Established Regimes.--Notwithstanding any other 
     provision of this title, nothing in this title may be 
     construed as affecting the authority of the Federal 
     Government under--
       (1) the Act to Prevent Pollution from Ships (33 U.S.C. 1901 
     et seq.) with respect to the regulation by the Federal 
     Government of any discharge or emission that, on or after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, is covered under the 
     Protocol of 1978 Relating to

[[Page S6681]]

     the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution 
     from Ships, 1973, with annexes and protocols, done at London 
     February 17, 1978; and
       (2) title X of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2010 
     (33 U.S.C. 3801 et seq.) with respect to the regulation by 
     the Federal Government of any anti-fouling system that, on or 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act, is covered under 
     the International Convention on the Control of Harmful Anti-
     fouling Systems on Ships, 2001, done at London October 5, 
     2001.
       (c) International Law.--Any action taken under this title 
     shall be taken in accordance with international law.
       (d) Conforming Amendment.--Section 1205 of the 
     Nonindigenous Aquatic Nuisance Prevention and Control Act of 
     1990 (16 U.S.C. 4725) is amended by adding at the end the 
     following: ``Ballast water and discharges incidental to the 
     normal operation of a commercial vessel, as such terms are 
     defined in the Vessel Incidental Discharge Act, shall be 
     regulated pursuant to such Act.''.

     SEC. 5013. QUAGGA MUSSEL.

       The Secretary of the Interior shall prescribe by regulation 
     that the quagga mussel (Dreissena rostriformis bugensis) is a 
     species that is injurious under section 42 of title 18, 
     United States Code.

     SEC. 5014. COASTAL AQUATIC INVASIVE SPECIES MITIGATION GRANT 
                   PROGRAM AND MITIGATION FUND.

       (a) Coastal Aquatic Invasive Species Mitigation Grant 
     Program.--
       (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
       (A) Coastal zone.--The term ``coastal zone'' has the 
     meaning given the term in section 304 of the Coastal Zone 
     Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1453).
       (B) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity'' means a 
     State government, local government, Indian Tribe, 
     nongovernmental organization, or academic institution.
       (C) Exclusive economic zone.--The term ``Exclusive Economic 
     Zone'' means the Exclusive Economic Zone of the United 
     States, as established by Presidential Proclamation 5030 of 
     March 10, 1983 (16 U.S.C. 1453 note).
       (D) Foundation.--The term ``Foundation'' means the National 
     Fish and Wildlife Foundation established by section 2(a) of 
     the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation Establishment Act 
     (16 U.S.C. 3701(a)).
       (E) Program.--The term ``Program'' means the Coastal 
     Aquatic Invasive Species Mitigation Grant Program established 
     under paragraph (2).
       (2) Establishment.--The Secretary of Commerce and the 
     Foundation shall establish the Coastal Aquatic Invasive 
     Species Mitigation Grant Program to award grants to eligible 
     entities, as described in this subsection.
       (3) Purposes.--The purposes of the Program are--
       (A) to improve the understanding, prevention, and 
     mitigation of, and response to, aquatic invasive species in 
     the coastal zone and the Exclusive Economic Zone of the 
     United States;
       (B) to support the prevention and mitigation of impacts 
     from aquatic invasive species in the coastal zone of the 
     United States; and
       (C) to support the restoration of marine, estuarine, and 
     the Great Lakes environments in the coastal zone and the 
     Exclusive Economic Zone of the United States that are 
     impacted by aquatic invasive species.
       (4) Use of grants.--
       (A) In general.--A grant awarded under the Program shall be 
     used for an activity to carry out the purposes of the 
     Program, including an activity--
       (i) to develop and implement procedures and programs to 
     prevent, control, mitigate, or progressively eradicate 
     aquatic invasive species in the coastal zone or the Exclusive 
     Economic Zone of the United States;
       (ii) to restore habitat impacted by an aquatic invasive 
     species;
       (iii) to develop new shipboard and land-based ballast water 
     treatment system technologies and performance standards to 
     prevent the introduction of aquatic invasive species;
       (iv) to develop mitigation measures to protect natural and 
     cultural living resources, including shellfish, from the 
     impacts of aquatic invasive species; or
       (v) to develop mitigation measures to protect 
     infrastructure, such as hydroelectric infrastructure, from 
     aquatic invasive species.
       (B) Prohibition on funding litigation.--A grant awarded 
     under the Program may not be used to fund litigation in any 
     matter.
       (5) Administration.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
     of enactment of this Act, the Foundation, in consultation 
     with the Secretary of Commerce, shall establish the 
     following:
       (A) Application and review procedures for awarding grants 
     under the Program.
       (B) Approval procedures for awarding grants under the 
     Program. Such procedures shall require consultation with the 
     Secretary of the Interior and the Administrator.
       (C) Performance accountability and monitoring measures for 
     activities funded by a grant awarded under the Program.
       (D) Procedures and methods to ensure accurate accounting 
     and appropriate administration of grants awarded under the 
     Program, including standards of record keeping.
       (6) Matching requirement.--Each eligible entity awarded a 
     grant under the Program to carry out an activity shall 
     provide matching funds to carry out such activity, in cash or 
     through in-kind contributions from sources other than the 
     Federal Government, in an amount equal to 50 percent of the 
     cost of such activity.
       (7) Funding.--The Secretary of Commerce and the Foundation 
     shall use the amounts available in the Coastal Aquatic 
     Invasive Species Mitigation Fund established under subsection 
     (b), to award grants under the Program.
       (b) Coastal Aquatic Invasive Species Mitigation Fund.--
       (1) Creation of fund.--There is established in the Treasury 
     of the United States a trust fund to be known as the 
     ``Coastal Aquatic Invasive Species Mitigation Fund'' 
     (referred to in this section as the ``Fund''), consisting of 
     such amounts as may be appropriated or credited to the Fund 
     as provided in this section or section 9602 of the Internal 
     Revenue Code of 1986.
       (2) Transfers to fund.--
       (A) Appropriation.--There is authorized to be appropriated 
     from the Treasury to the Fund each fiscal year an amount 
     equal to the penalties assessed under section 5003(b) in the 
     prior fiscal year.
       (B) Authorization of further appropriations.--There is 
     authorized to be appropriated to the Fund, in addition to the 
     amounts transferred to the Fund under paragraph (1), 
     $5,000,000 for each fiscal year.
       (3) Expenditures from fund.--Amounts in the Fund shall be 
     available without further appropriation to the Secretary of 
     Commerce and the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation 
     established by section 2(a) of the National Fish and Wildlife 
     Foundation Establishment Act to award grants under the 
     Coastal Aquatic Invasive Species Mitigation Grant Program 
     established under subsection (a)(2).

     SEC. 5015. RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.

       (a) International Standards.--Nothing in this title may be 
     construed to impose any design, equipment, or operation 
     standard on a commercial vessel not documented under the laws 
     of the United States and engaged in innocent passage unless 
     the standard implements a generally accepted international 
     rule, as determined by the Secretary.
       (b) Other Authorities.--Nothing in this title may construed 
     as affecting the authority of the Secretary of Commerce or 
     the Secretary of the Interior to administer lands or waters 
     under the administrative control of the Secretary of Commerce 
     or the Secretary of the Interior.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1484. Mr. WICKER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO BALLAST 
                   WATER AND OTHER VESSEL INCIDENTAL DISCHARGE 
                   REGULATIONS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to the 
     enforcement of a national uniform standard for ballast water 
     and other incidental discharges onboard commercial vessels, 
     by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1485. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3__. SPENDING-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   EMPOWERING STATES TO MANAGE GREATER SAGE-GROUSE 
                   POPULATIONS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     empowering States to manage greater sage-grouse populations 
     by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not raise new 
     revenue and would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1486. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to

[[Page S6682]]

amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3__. SPENDING-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO REPEALING 
                   THE RENEWABLE FUEL STANDARD PROGRAM.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     repealing the renewable fuel standard program by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not raise new revenue and would 
     not increase the deficit over either the period of the total 
     of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total 
     of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1487. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3__. SPENDING-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PROHIBITING THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PARIS 
                   CLIMATE CHANGE AGREEMENT.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     prohibiting the implementation of the agreement of the 21st 
     Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Framework 
     Convention on Climate Change, adopted at Paris on December 
     12, 2015, by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     raise new revenue and would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1488. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3__. SPENDING-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO PROMOTING 
                   CONGRESSIONAL, STATE, AND LOCAL INVOLVEMENT IN 
                   THE ESTABLISHMENT OF NATIONAL MONUMENTS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     enhancing transparency in the process of establishing 
     national monuments by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not raise new revenue and would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1489. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 57, strike lines 19 through 21 and insert the 
     following:
       (4) the payments in lieu of taxes program;
       (5) the secure rural schools and community self-
     determination program; or
       (6) chapter 3203 of title 54, United States Code,
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1490. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3__. SPENDING-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PROHIBITING THE EXPENDITURE OF AMOUNTS FROM THE 
                   LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION FUND FOR THE 
                   ACQUISITION OF LAND UNTIL THE DATE ON WHICH THE 
                   MAINTENANCE BACKLOG OF THE NATIONAL PARK 
                   SERVICE IS REDUCED.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     prohibiting amounts from the Land and Water Conservation Fund 
     established under section 200302 of title 54, United States 
     Code, to be used for land acquisition until the date on which 
     the National Park Service maintenance backlog is less than 
     $5,000,000 by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     raise new revenue and would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1491. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3__. SPENDING-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PROHIBITING THE UNLAWFUL DETENTION OF A CITIZEN 
                   OF THE UNITED STATES THAT VIOLATES CERTAIN 
                   RIGHTS OF THE CITIZEN.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     prohibiting the unlawful detention of a citizen of the United 
     States, regardless of the circumstances of the arrest of the 
     citizen, that may violate the due process rights of the 
     citizen indefinitely, the right of the citizen to counsel, or 
     the right of the citizen to have the identity of the citizen 
     disclosed to the public, by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not raise new revenue and would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1492. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3__. SPENDING-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO ANNUAL 
                   REPORTS ON THE DEFENSE SPENDING OF THE ALLIES 
                   AND PARTNER NATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to annual 
     reports on the defense spending of the allies and partner 
     nations of the United States by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not raise new revenue and would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1493. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027;

[[Page S6683]]

which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3__. SPENDING-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PROHIBITING THE EXTENSION OF THE AUTHORIZATION 
                   FOR THE FLAWED END MODERN SLAVERY INITIATIVE 
                   (EMSI) GRANT PROGRAM.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     prohibiting the extension of the authorization for the flawed 
     End Modern Slavery Initiative (EMSI) grant program by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not raise new revenue 
     and would not increase the deficit over either the period of 
     the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of 
     the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1494. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3__. SPENDING-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   IMMEDIATELY PROHIBITING THE DEPLOYMENT OF THE 
                   ARMED FORCES INTO A FOREIGN COUNTRY FOR 
                   HUMANITARIAN OPERATIONS NOT PREVIOUSLY 
                   AUTHORIZED BY STATUTE.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     immediately prohibiting the deployment of the Armed Forces 
     into a foreign country for humanitarian operations not 
     previously authorized by statute by the amounts provided in 
     such legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not raise new revenue and would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1495. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3__. SPENDING-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PROHIBITING MODIFICATION OF THE APPLICABILITY 
                   OF THE MILITARY SELECTIVE SERVICE ACT BY 
                   EXECUTIVE OR JUDICIAL ACTION.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     prohibiting modification of the applicability of the Military 
     Selective Service Act by Executive or Judicial action by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not raise new revenue 
     and would not increase the deficit over either the period of 
     the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of 
     the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1496. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3__. SPENDING-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PROHIBITING BILATERAL ASSISTANCE TO FOREIGN 
                   COUNTRIES WHO HAVE FAILED TO FULFILL THEIR 
                   OBLIGATIONS IN UNITED NATIONS PEACEKEEPING 
                   MISSIONS OR WHOSE PEACEKEEPERS HAVE BEEN 
                   CONVICTED OF SEXUAL EXPLOITATION AND ABUSE AND 
                   HAVE FAILED TO IMPLEMENT NECESSARY CHANGES AND 
                   ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     prohibiting bilateral assistance to foreign countries who 
     have failed to fulfill their obligations in United Nations 
     peacekeeping missions or whose peacekeepers have been 
     convicted of sexual exploitation and abuse and have failed to 
     implement necessary changes and accountability measures by 
     the amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not raise new revenue 
     and would not increase the deficit over either the period of 
     the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of 
     the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1497. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3__. SPENDING-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PROHIBITING OPERATIONS AND ACTIVITIES OF THE 
                   ARMED FORCES IN YEMEN.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     prohibiting operations and activities of the Armed Forces in 
     Yemen by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not raise new 
     revenue and would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1498. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3__. SPENDING-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO REPORTING 
                   ON THE ACTIVITIES OF THE OFFICE OF TRANSITION 
                   INITIATIVES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     compiling a report on the activities of the Office of 
     Transition Initiatives of the United States Agency for 
     International Development by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not raise new revenue and would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1499. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. SPENDING-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PROTECTING COMMUNITIES FROM DESTRUCTIVE FEDERAL 
                   OVERREACH BY THE FINAL RULE OF THE DEPARTMENT 
                   OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT ENTITLED 
                   ``AFFIRMATIVELY FURTHERING FAIR HOUSING''.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     protecting communities from destructive Federal overreach by 
     the final rule of the Department of Housing and Urban 
     Development entitled ``Affirmatively Furthering Fair 
     Housing'' by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     raise new revenue and would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022 or

[[Page S6684]]

     the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1500. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3__. SPENDING-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO PHASING 
                   OUT THE EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF THE UNITED 
                   STATES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     phasing out the authority of the Export-Import Bank of the 
     United States by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     raise new revenue and would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1501. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO REQUIRING 
                   CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW OF THE IMPOSITION OF 
                   DUTIES AND OTHER TRADE MEASURES BY THE 
                   PRESIDENT.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference, reports relating to 
     congressional review of presidential trade actions by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1502. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3 ___. SPENDING-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   TRANSPARENCY WITHIN THE CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET 
                   OFFICE.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     increasing transparency practices by the Congressional Budget 
     Office by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not raise new 
     revenue and would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1503. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. SPENDING-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PROHIBITING THE RECLASSIFICATION OF BROADBAND 
                   INTERNET ACCESS SERVICE AS AN INFORMATION 
                   SERVICE AND THE IMPLEMENTATION OF NET 
                   NEUTRALITY REGULATIONS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to the 
     openness of the Internet and the prohibition of net 
     neutrality regulations by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not raise new revenue and would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1504. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO DEVOLVING 
                   SURFACE TRANSPORTATION MANAGEMENT FROM THE 
                   FEDERAL GOVERNMENT TO THE STATES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to the 
     devolution of the responsibility for building and maintaining 
     the surface transportation of the United States from the 
     Federal Government to the States by the amounts provided in 
     such legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1505. Mr. BOOKER (for himself and Mrs. Murray) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       On page 53, between lines 22 and 23, insert the following:
       (7) restricting harmful or fraudulent treatments that 
     purport to change the sexual orientation or gender identity 
     of a child, youth, or adult,
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1506. Mr. NELSON submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 3, line 12, increase the amount by $520,000,000.
       On page 3, line 13, increase the amount by $1,850,000,000.
       On page 4, line 1, increase the amount by $3,090,000,000.
       On page 4, line 2, increase the amount by $4,035,000,000.
       On page 4, line 3, increase the amount by $4,955,000,000.
       On page 4, line 4, increase the amount by $5,955,000,000.
       On page 4, line 5, increase the amount by $6,925,000,000.
       On page 4, line 6, increase the amount by $7,770,000,000.
       On page 4, line 7, increase the amount by $8,475,000,000.
       On page 4, line 8, increase the amount by $9,010,000,000.
       On page 4, line 12, increase the amount by $520,000,000.
       On page 4, line 13, increase the amount by $1,850,000,000.
       On page 4, line 14, increase the amount by $3,090,000,000.
       On page 4, line 15, increase the amount by $4,035,000,000.
       On page 4, line 16, increase the amount by $4,955,000,000.
       On page 4, line 17, increase the amount by $5,955,000,000.
       On page 4, line 18, increase the amount by $6,925,000,000.
       On page 4, line 19, increase the amount by $7,770,000,000.
       On page 4, line 20, increase the amount by $8,475,000,000.
       On page 4, line 21, increase the amount by $9,010,000,000.
       On page 4, line 25, increase the amount by $520,000,000.
       On page 5, line 1, increase the amount by $1,850,000,000.
       On page 5, line 2, increase the amount by $3,090,000,000.
       On page 5, line 3, increase the amount by $4,035,000,000.

[[Page S6685]]

       On page 5, line 4, increase the amount by $4,955,000,000.
       On page 5, line 5, increase the amount by $5,955,000,000.
       On page 5, line 6, increase the amount by $6,925,000,000.
       On page 5, line 7, increase the amount by $7,770,000,000.
       On page 5, line 8, increase the amount by $8,475,000,000.
       On page 5, line 9, increase the amount by $9,010,000,000.
       On page 5, line 13, increase the amount by $520,000,000.
       On page 5, line 14, increase the amount by $1,850,000,000.
       On page 5, line 15, increase the amount by $3,090,000,000.
       On page 5, line 16, increase the amount by $4,035,000,000.
       On page 5, line 17, increase the amount by $4,955,000,000.
       On page 5, line 18, increase the amount by $5,955,000,000.
       On page 5, line 19, increase the amount by $6,925,000,000.
       On page 5, line 20, increase the amount by $7,770,000,000.
       On page 5, line 21, increase the amount by $8,475,000,000.
       On page 5, line 22, increase the amount by $9,010,000,000.
       On page 22, line 20, increase the amount by $520,000,000.
       On page 22, line 21, increase the amount by $520,000,000.
       On page 22, line 24, increase the amount by $1,850,000,000.
       On page 22, line 25, increase the amount by $1,850,000,000.
       On page 23, line 3, increase the amount by $3,090,000,000.
       On page 23, line 4, increase the amount by $3,090,000,000.
       On page 23, line 7, increase the amount by $4,035,000,000.
       On page 23, line 8, increase the amount by $4,035,000,000.
       On page 23, line 11, increase the amount by $4,955,000,000.
       On page 23, line 12, increase the amount by $4,955,000,000.
       On page 23, line 15, increase the amount by $5,955,000,000.
       On page 23, line 16, increase the amount by $5,955,000,000.
       On page 23, line 19, increase the amount by $6,925,000,000.
       On page 23, line 20, increase the amount by $6,925,000,000.
       On page 23, line 23, increase the amount by $7,770,000,000.
       On page 23, line 24, increase the amount by $7,770,000,000.
       On page 24, line 2, increase the amount by $8,475,000,000.
       On page 24, line 3, increase the amount by $8,475,000,000.
       On page 24, line 6, increase the amount by $9,010,000,000.
       On page 24, line 7, increase the amount by $9,010,000,000.
       On page 47, line 6, decrease the amount by $52,585,000,000.
       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST AN INCREASE IN PAYMENTS FOR 
                   FEDERAL STUDENT LOAN BORROWERS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider a bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     reduce the benefits available to current or future Federal 
     student loan borrowers using income-driven repayment programs 
     under part B or D of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 
     1965 (20 U.S.C. 1071 et seq.; 1087a et seq.), including 
     proposals that would increase the amount borrowers must pay 
     to 12.5 percent of discretionary income and extend the cap on 
     repayment for graduate students to 30 years.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1507. Mr. BROWN (for himself, Mr. Reed, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Warner, 
and Mr. Van Hollen) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   INCREASING CONSUMER PRIVACY AND TRANSPARENCY IN 
                   THE COLLECTION AND USE OF PERSONAL DATA BY 
                   NATIONWIDE CONSUMER REPORTING AGENCIES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     increasing consumer privacy and transparency in the 
     collection and use of personal data by nationwide consumer 
     reporting agencies by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1508. Ms. HIRONO submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   IMPLEMENTING RECOMMENDATIONS IN THE REGIONAL 
                   BIOSECURITY PLAN FOR MICRONESIA AND HAWAII OF 
                   THE DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     implementing recommendations in the Regional Biosecurity Plan 
     for Micronesia and Hawaii of the Department of the Navy by 
     the amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1509. Ms. HIRONO submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO RELATING 
                   TO SUPPORTING, PROTECTING, AND MAINTAINING 
                   FEDERAL PUBLIC LAND.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     supporting, protecting, and maintaining Federal public land, 
     including national monuments, in the form in which the 
     national monuments are in as of the date of enactment of this 
     Act, for the enjoyment by current and future generations, to 
     honor the national heritage of the United States, and to 
     recognize the Federal public land as national treasures that 
     belong to all people of the United States by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1510. Ms. HIRONO submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PRIORITIZING THE USE OF NATIVE PLANTS BY PUBLIC 
                   LAND MANAGERS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     prioritizing the use of native plants by public land managers 
     by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1511. Ms. HIRONO submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H.

[[Page S6686]]

Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   ESTABLISHING PUBLIC SHELTERS RATED TO WITHSTAND 
                   UP TO CATEGORY 5 HURRICANE WINDS ALONG 
                   COASTLINES AND WITHIN ISLAND COMMUNITIES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     establishing public shelters rated to withstand up to 
     category 5 hurricane winds along coastlines and within island 
     communities by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1512. Ms. HIRONO submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   ADDRESSING INVASIVE SPECIES THAT THREATEN THE 
                   DOMESTIC COFFEE AND MACADAMIA NUT INDUSTRIES 
                   AND NATIVE OHIA TREES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     addressing invasive species that threaten the domestic coffee 
     and macadamia nut industries and native ohia trees by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1513. Ms. HIRONO (for herself and Mr. King) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to 
the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   ADDRESSING DEFERRED MAINTENANCE AT SCHOOLS OF 
                   AGRICULTURE IN THE UNITED STATES AND 
                   AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE RESEARCH 
                   FACILITIES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     addressing deferred maintenance at schools of agriculture in 
     the United States and Agricultural Research Service research 
     facilities by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1514. Ms. HIRONO submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   ADDRESSING THE DEFERRED MAINTENANCE BACKLOG OF 
                   THE NATIONAL PARK SERVICE.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     reducing the deferred maintenance backlog of the National 
     Park Service, supporting the capacity of the National Park 
     Service to meet annual maintenance needs, or ensuring that 
     the repair, stabilization, or reconstruction of 
     infrastructure is compliant with all applicable historic 
     preservation and natural resource standards by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1515. Ms. HIRONO (for herself and Mr. Markey) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   STIMULATING INNOVATION TO ADVANCE THE ABILITY 
                   OF THE UNITED STATES TO UNDERSTAND, RESEARCH, 
                   OR MONITOR CORAL REEF ECOSYSTEMS, OR TO DEVELOP 
                   MANAGEMENT OR ADAPTATION OPTIONS TO PRESERVE, 
                   SUSTAIN, AND RESTORE CORAL REEF ECOSYSTEMS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     stimulating innovation to advance the ability of the United 
     States to understand, research, or monitor coral reef 
     ecosystems, or to develop management or adaptation options to 
     preserve, sustain, and restore coral reef ecosystems, by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1516. Ms. HIRONO submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO INVESTING 
                   IN CLEAN ENERGY AND PRESERVING THE ENVIRONMENT.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to energy 
     conservation and renewable energy development or new or 
     existing approaches to clean energy financing, reducing 
     greenhouse gas emissions levels, or Federal programs for land 
     and water conservation and acquisition or the preservation, 
     restoration, or protection of public land, oceans, coastal 
     areas, or aquatic ecosystems by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1517. Ms. HIRONO (for herself and Mr. Wyden) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

[[Page S6687]]

  


     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO ENHANCING 
                   THE READINESS OF THE ARMED FORCES BY IMPROVING 
                   ENERGY RESILIENCE ON MILITARY INSTALLATIONS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     enhancing the readiness of the Armed Forces, which may 
     include legislation that improves energy resilience on 
     military installations, including the use of cyber-secure 
     microgrids, energy storage, or renewable energy and other 
     projects that provide power directly to a military facility 
     or installation, by the amounts provided in such legislation 
     for those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1518. Ms. HIRONO submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO IMPROVING 
                   THE RELIABILITY AND RESILIENCE OF THE ELECTRIC 
                   GRID IN ISLANDED COMMUNITIES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     improving the reliability and resilience of the electric grid 
     in islanded communities or communities affected by natural 
     disasters, including through the use of microgrids, energy 
     storage, and renewable power sources, by the amounts provided 
     in such legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1519. Ms. HIRONO (for herself, Mrs. Murray, and Ms. Warren) 
submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 
proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, 
establishing the congressional budget for the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the 
table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   STRENGTHENING AND EXPANDING COLLECTIVE 
                   BARGAINING RIGHTS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to--
       (1) strengthening and reaffirming the Federal policy in 
     favor of collective bargaining;
       (2) stiffening penalties for companies that violate 
     workers' rights to unionize and act collectively;
       (3) ending company interference in union organizing 
     campaigns;
       (4) preserving the use of official time;
       (5) prohibiting permanent replacement of striking workers; 
     and
       (6) expanding the benefits of the collective bargaining 
     process to new and emerging employment sectors;

     by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1520. Mr. REED (for himself and Mr. Brown) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to 
the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   INVESTMENTS IN IMPROVING PRE-DISASTER 
                   MITIGATION, FLOOD MAPPING, FLOOD MITIGATION, 
                   AND RESILIENCE.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     investments in improving pre-disaster mitigation, flood 
     mapping, flood mitigation, and resilience by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1521. Mr. REED (for himself, Mr. Whitehouse, and Mr. Brown) 
submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 
proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, 
establishing the congressional budget for the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the 
table; as follows:

       On page 79, line 2, insert ``, including the costs of 
     fraud, waste, abuse, and crime resulting from any 
     deregulation'' after ``variables''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1522. Mr. UDALL (for himself, Mr. Heinrich, Mr. Bennet, Mr. Wyden, 
and Mr. Markey) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO HARDROCK 
                   MINING REFORM.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     Federal land management, which may include provisions 
     relating to budget deficit reduction, establishment of a 
     reclamation fund, imposition of a locatable mineral royalty, 
     revenue sharing with States, and improvements to the 
     permitting process, by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1523. Mr. COONS submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO REQUIRING 
                   THE WHITE HOUSE OFFICE TO MAKE VISITOR LOGS 
                   PUBLICLY AVAILABLE.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     requiring the White House Office to make visitor logs 
     publicly available, including visitors to the White House, 
     Mar-a-Lago, and the Trump National Golf Club in Bedminster, 
     New Jersey, by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1524. Mr. COONS (for himself and Mr. Booker) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       On page 65, strike lines 1 through 17 and insert the 
     following:
       (b) Exceptions.--Advance appropriations may be provided--
       (1) for fiscal years 2019 and 2020 for programs, projects, 
     activities, or accounts identified in the joint explanatory 
     statement of

[[Page S6688]]

     managers accompanying this concurrent resolution under the 
     heading ``Accounts Identified for Advance Appropriations'' in 
     an aggregate amount not to exceed $33,952,000,000 in new 
     budget authority in each fiscal year;
       (2) for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting;
       (3) for the Department of Veterans Affairs for the Medical 
     Services, Medical Support and Compliance, Veterans Medical 
     Community Care, and Medical Facilities accounts of the 
     Veterans Health Administration; and
       (4) for Northeast Corridor Grants and National Network 
     Grants to the National Railroad Passenger Corporation 
     (commonly known as ``Amtrak'').
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1525. Mr. BROWN (for himself, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. 
Bennet, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Booker, Mr. Warner, Mr. Casey, Ms. Heitkamp, 
and Ms. Warren) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO HELPING 
                   STATES, COUNTIES, AND INDIAN TRIBES ADDRESS THE 
                   RECENT INCREASE IN FOSTER CARE ENTRIES DRIVEN 
                   BY THE OPIOID EPIDEMIC.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     helping States, counties, and Indian Tribes address the 
     recent increase in foster care entries driven by the opioid 
     epidemic through means such as allowing Federal child welfare 
     matching funds to be used for substance use treatment and 
     other evidence-based programs to help families stay safely 
     together, providing resources to grandparents and other 
     relatives, and improving the quality and oversight of 
     Federally-funded foster care programs, by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1526. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41__. PROHIBITION ON PROCEEDING TO CONSIDERATION OF 
                   LEGISLATION WITHOUT A SCORE IN THE SENATE.

       (a) Definitions.--In this section--
       (1) the term ``covered estimate'', with respect to covered 
     legislation, means an estimate of the costs which would be 
     incurred in carrying out the covered legislation, as 
     determined by the Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of 
     the Senate under the authority under section 312 of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 643); and
       (2) the term ``covered legislation'' means a bill, joint 
     resolution, amendment between the Houses, or conference 
     report.
       (b) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to proceed to consideration of any covered legislation 
     unless, not later than 28 hours before the time the Senate 
     proceeds to consideration of the covered legislation, a 
     covered estimate with respect to the covered legislation is 
     made publicly available--
       (1) by the Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the 
     Senate; or
       (2) on the website of the Congressional Budget Office.
       (c) Supermajority Waiver and Appeal.--
       (1) Waiver.--Subsection (b) may be waived or suspended in 
     the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-fifths of the 
     Members, duly chosen and sworn.
       (2) Appeal.--An affirmative vote of three-fifths of the 
     Members of the Senate, duly chosen and sworn, shall be 
     required to sustain an appeal of the ruling of the Chair 
     under subsection (b) with respect to a motion to proceed.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1527. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3__. SPENDING-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   COMPREHENSIVE REVIEWS OF THE UNITED STATES 
                   GOVERNMENT'S PARTICIPATION IN AND FUNDING OF 
                   THE UNITED NATIONS AND UNITED NATIONS-
                   AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS AND THE ORGANIZATION 
                   OF AMERICAN STATES, TO THE IMPLEMENTATION OF 
                   THE OAS REVITALIZATION AND REFORM ACT OF 2013, 
                   AND TO COMPILING A REPORT ON FEDERAL SPENDING 
                   IN FOREIGN NATIONS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     comprehensive reviews of the United States Government's 
     participation in and funding of the United Nations and United 
     Nations-affiliated organizations and the United States 
     Government's participation in and funding of the Organization 
     of American States, to the implementation of the OAS 
     Revitalization and Reform Act of 2013, and to compiling a 
     report on Federal spending in foreign nations, by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not raise new revenue and would 
     not increase the deficit over either the period of the total 
     of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total 
     of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1528. Mr. YOUNG submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO THE JOINT 
                   INTEGRATION OF THE MODERNIZATION AND 
                   SUSTAINMENT OF THE UNITED STATES NUCLEAR TRIAD.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to the 
     joint integration of the modernization and sustainment of the 
     United States nuclear triad by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1529. Mr. DAINES submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   DECREASING RATES OF METHAMPHETAMINE USE IN 
                   NATIVE AMERICAN COMMUNITIES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     decreasing rates of methamphetamine use in Native American 
     communities, by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1530. Mr. DAINES submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   ADDRESSING THE DEFERRED MAINTENANCE NEEDS OF 
                   THE NATIONAL PARK SERVICE.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the

[[Page S6689]]

     pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or more bills, joint 
     resolutions, amendments, amendments between the Houses, 
     motions, or conference reports relating to addressing the 
     deferred maintenance needs of the National Park Service by 
     the amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1531. Mr. CASEY (for himself, Ms. Warren, Mrs. Murray, and Mr. 
Blumenthal) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to amendment 
SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 
71, establishing the congressional budget for the United States 
Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate 
budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered 
to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 3, line 12, increase the amount by $425,000,000.
       On page 3, line 13, increase the amount by $1,015,000,000.
       On page 4, line 1, increase the amount by $1,420,000,000.
       On page 4, line 2, increase the amount by $1,765,000,000.
       On page 4, line 3, increase the amount by $2,140,000,000.
       On page 4, line 4, increase the amount by $2,570,000,000.
       On page 4, line 5, increase the amount by $3,015,000,000.
       On page 4, line 6, increase the amount by $3,445,000,000.
       On page 4, line 7, increase the amount by $3,825,000,000.
       On page 4, line 8, increase the amount by $4,105,000,000.
       On page 4, line 12, increase the amount by $425,000,000.
       On page 4, line 13, increase the amount by $1,015,000,000.
       On page 4, line 14, increase the amount by $1,420,000,000.
       On page 4, line 15, increase the amount by $1,765,000,000.
       On page 4, line 16, increase the amount by $2,140,000,000.
       On page 4, line 17, increase the amount by $2,570,000,000.
       On page 4, line 18, increase the amount by $3,015,000,000.
       On page 4, line 19, increase the amount by $3,445,000,000.
       On page 4, line 20, increase the amount by $3,825,000,000.
       On page 4, line 21, increase the amount by $4,105,000,000.
       On page 4, line 25, increase the amount by $425,000,000.
       On page 5, line 1, increase the amount by $1,015,000,000.
       On page 5, line 2, increase the amount by $1,420,000,000.
       On page 5, line 3, increase the amount by $1,765,000,000.
       On page 5, line 4, increase the amount by $2,140,000,000.
       On page 5, line 5, increase the amount by $2,570,000,000.
       On page 5, line 6, increase the amount by $3,015,000,000.
       On page 5, line 7, increase the amount by $3,445,000,000.
       On page 5, line 8, increase the amount by $3,825,000,000.
       On page 5, line 9, increase the amount by $4,105,000,000.
       On page 5, line 13, increase the amount by $425,000,000.
       On page 5, line 14, increase the amount by $1,015,000,000.
       On page 5, line 15, increase the amount by $1,420,000,000.
       On page 5, line 16, increase the amount by $1,765,000,000.
       On page 5, line 17, increase the amount by $2,140,000,000.
       On page 5, line 18, increase the amount by $2,570,000,000.
       On page 5, line 19, increase the amount by $3,015,000,000.
       On page 5, line 20, increase the amount by $3,445,000,000.
       On page 5, line 21, increase the amount by $3,825,000,000.
       On page 5, line 22, increase the amount by $4,105,000,000.
       On page 22, line 20, increase the amount by $425,000,000.
       On page 22, line 21, increase the amount by $425,000,000.
       On page 22, line 24, increase the amount by $1,015,000,000.
       On page 22, line 25, increase the amount by $1,015,000,000.
       On page 23, line 3, increase the amount by $1,420,000,000.
       On page 23, line 4, increase the amount by $1,420,000,000.
       On page 23, line 7, increase the amount by $1,765,000,000.
       On page 23, line 8, increase the amount by $1,765,000,000.
       On page 23, line 11, increase the amount by $2,140,000,000.
       On page 23, line 12, increase the amount by $2,140,000,000.
       On page 23, line 15, increase the amount by $2,570,000,000.
       On page 23, line 16, increase the amount by $2,570,000,000.
       On page 23, line 19, increase the amount by $3,015,000,000.
       On page 23, line 20, increase the amount by $3,015,000,000.
       On page 23, line 23, increase the amount by $3,445,000,000.
       On page 23, line 24, increase the amount by $3,445,000,000.
       On page 24, line 2, increase the amount by $3,825,000,000.
       On page 24, line 3, increase the amount by $3,825,000,000.
       On page 24, line 6, increase the amount by $4,105,000,000.
       On page 24, line 7, increase the amount by $4,105,000,000.
       On page 47, line 6, decrease the amount by $23,725,000,000.
       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, insert the following:

     SEC. 4___. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST CUTS TO PUBLIC SERVICE LOAN 
                   FORGIVENESS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider a bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     eliminate or reduce the public service loan forgiveness 
     available under section 455(m) of the Higher Education Act of 
     1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087e(m)) to student borrowers of eligible 
     Federal Direct Loans.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1532. Mr. BOOKER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   SUPPORTING RESEARCH, SURVEILLANCE, AND 
                   EDUCATION REGARDING NEGLECTED TROPICAL DISEASES 
                   IN THE UNITED STATES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     encouraging the Department of Health and Human Services to 
     improve research, surveillance, and education regarding the 
     presence and impact of neglected tropical diseases in the 
     United States, by the amounts provided in such legislation 
     for those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1533. Mr. BOOKER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO PROMOTING 
                   AND EDUCATING AMERICANS ABOUT THE OPEN 
                   ENROLLMENT PERIOD FOR THE HEALTH INSURANCE 
                   EXCHANGES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     increasing funds for advertising, in-person assistance, and 
     other outreach activities that would promote and educate 
     Americans about the open enrollment period for the health 
     insurance Exchanges, by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1534. Mr. WYDEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:


[[Page S6690]]


  

       In Section 2001, strike subsection (b)
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1535. Mr. WYDEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       In Section 2001, strike subsection (b)
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1536. Mr. KING submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO TAX 
                   RELIEF FOR FAMILIES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     increasing Federal tax relief for families, which may include 
     amending the child tax credit and the child and dependent 
     care tax credit, by the amounts provided in such legislation 
     for those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1537. Mr. UDALL submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PROTECTING PROGRAMS ADMINISTERED BY THE BUREAU 
                   OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, THE INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE, 
                   AND ALL OTHER RELEVANT AGENCIES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     protecting programs administered by the Bureau of Indian 
     Affairs, the Indian Health Service, and all other relevant 
     agencies, which may include changing the scope of 
     sequestration as carried out by the Office of Management and 
     Budget, such as for all programs administered by the Bureau 
     of Indian Affairs (including public safety and justice, 
     education, social services and natural resources programs), 
     programs administered by the Indian Health Service, and 
     housing programs carried out pursuant to the Native American 
     Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996, by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1538. Ms. HIRONO submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3__. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PROHIBITING FEDERAL FUNDING FOR THE 
                   CONSTRUCTION OR EXPANSION OF PRIVATELY-RUN 
                   IMMIGRATION DETENTION FACILITIES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     prohibiting funding for the construction or expansion of 
     privately-run immigration detention facilities by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1539. Ms. HIRONO submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PROTECTING THE RIGHTS OF ALL AMERICANS TO BE 
                   FREE FROM DISCRIMINATION BASED ON THEIR SEXUAL 
                   ORIENTATION, GENDER IDENTITY, RELIGION, RACE, 
                   COLOR, SEX, OR NATIONAL ORIGIN.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports, relating to 
     ensuring that Federal agencies protect the rights of all 
     individuals in the United States to be free from 
     discrimination (such as discrimination in employment, 
     contracting, or programs and services) based on their sexual 
     orientation, gender identity, religion, race, color, sex, or 
     national origin, in accordance with the Constitution of the 
     United States and Federal law, by the amounts provided in 
     such legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1540. Ms. HIRONO submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3__. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO PREVENTING 
                   U.S. IMMIGRATION AND CUSTOMS ENFORCEMENT FROM 
                   DEVIATING FROM ITS EXISTING SENSITIVE LOCATIONS 
                   POLICY.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     preventing U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement from 
     deviating from its existing sensitive locations policy or 
     executing enforcement actions at sensitive locations by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1541. Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Ms. Cortez Masto, Mr. Udall, and 
Mr. Coons) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to amendment 
SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 
71, establishing the congressional budget for the United States 
Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate 
budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered 
to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO DEFENDING 
                   BROADCAST LICENSEES AND THE FIRST AMENDMENT.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     prohibiting the Federal Communications Commission from 
     revoking or otherwise impairing, directly or indirectly, a 
     broadcast license issued by the Commission simply because the 
     President, or another member of the Administration of the 
     President, is dissatisfied by the news content aired by the 
     licensee about the President or the Administration by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1542. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to

[[Page S6691]]

amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41__. PROHIBITION ON PROCEEDING TO CONSIDERATION OF 
                   LEGISLATION WITHOUT A SCORE IN THE SENATE.

       (a) Definitions.--In this section--
       (1) the term ``covered estimate'', with respect to covered 
     legislation, means an estimate of the costs which would be 
     incurred in carrying out the covered legislation, as 
     determined by the Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of 
     the Senate under the authority under section 312 of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 643); and
       (2) the term ``covered legislation'' means a bill, joint 
     resolution, amendment between the Houses, or conference 
     report.
       (b) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to proceed to any covered legislation by motion or by consent 
     unless, not later than 28 hours before the time the Senate 
     proceeds to consideration of the covered legislation, a 
     covered estimate with respect to the covered legislation is 
     made publicly available--
       (1) by the Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the 
     Senate; or
       (2) on the website of the Congressional Budget Office.
       (c) Supermajority Waiver and Appeal.--
       (1) Waiver.--Subsection (b) may be waived or suspended in 
     the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-fifths of the 
     Members, duly chosen and sworn.
       (2) Appeal.--An affirmative vote of three-fifths of the 
     Members of the Senate, duly chosen and sworn, shall be 
     required to sustain an appeal of the ruling of the Chair 
     under subsection (b) with respect to a motion to proceed.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1543. Mr. HEINRICH (for himself and Mr. Udall) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       On page 47, strike line 3 and insert the following:
       In the Senate, not later than November 13, 2017, the 
     Committee on
       On page 47, strike lines 8 through 21.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1544. Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Mr. Wyden, and Mrs. Murray) 
submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 
proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, 
establishing the congressional budget for the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the 
table; as follows:

       On page 57, strike lines 19 and 20 and insert the 
     following:
       (4) resources to assist local communities in recovering 
     from damages relating to wildland fires;
       (5) the payments in lieu of taxes program; or
       (6) the secure rural schools and community
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1545. Ms. WARREN (for herself, Mr. Menendez, Ms. Duckworth, and 
Ms. Hirono) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to amendment 
SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 
71, establishing the congressional budget for the United States 
Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate 
budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered 
to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD HARM 
                   BABIES BORN PREMATURELY BY CUTTING FEDERAL 
                   FUNDING FOR MEDICAID THAT SUPPORTS MEDICATIONS, 
                   SPECIAL EQUIPMENT, AND THERAPIES TO HELP THESE 
                   BABIES THRIVE AND PROTECTS THEIR FAMILIES FROM 
                   BANKRUPTCY.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     harm babies born prematurely by cutting Federal funding for 
     the Medicaid program under title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.), which supports medications, 
     special equipment, and therapies to help these babies thrive 
     and protects their families from bankruptcy.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1546. Ms. WARREN (for herself, Mr. Sanders, Mr. Markey, Mr. 
Menendez, Ms. Duckworth, and Ms. Hirono) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to 
the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD 
                   INCREASE THE LIKELIHOOD OF MEDICAL BANKRUPTCY 
                   FOR AMERICAN FAMILIES, INCLUDING LEGISLATION 
                   THAT WOULD CUT FEDERAL FUNDING FOR MEDICAID.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     increase the likelihood of medical bankruptcy for families in 
     the United States, including any such bill, joint resolution, 
     motion, amendment, or conference report that would result in 
     decreased Federal funding for the Medicaid program under 
     title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et 
     seq.).
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1547. Mr. DAINES (for himself, Mr. Lankford, Mr. Strange, Mr. 
Blunt, and Mrs. Ernst) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   INCREASING FUNDING FOR COMMUNITY HEALTH 
                   CENTERS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     legislation that would transfer Federal funding from 
     organizations that receive such funding and perform abortions 
     to organizations that provide comprehensive care for women, 
     including community health centers, by the amounts provided 
     in such legislation for such purpose, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1548. Mr. DAINES submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   INCREASING BENEFICIARY CHOICE AND INDIVIDUAL 
                   FREEDOM IN HEALTH CARE.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     increasing beneficiary choice and individual freedom in the 
     receipt of health care, which may include the expansion of 
     the available uses and contribution limits applicable to 
     health savings accounts, by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1549. Mr. DAINES submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution H.

[[Page S6692]]

Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   INCREASING TRANSPARENCY IN HEALTH CARE PRICING.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     ensuring transparency for costs and pricing of health care 
     services provided through Federal Government programs under 
     which beneficiaries have a financial responsibility, by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1550. Mr. UDALL (for himself and Mr. Heinrich) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 41___. PROHIBITION ON SCORING OF AMOUNTS FROM SALES OR 
                   LEASES OF PUBLIC LAND.

       In the Senate, for purposes of determining budgetary 
     impacts to evaluate points of order under the Congressional 
     Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 621 et seq.) or any concurrent 
     resolution on the budget, provisions contained in any bill, 
     resolution, amendment, motion, or conference report that 
     generate Federal offsetting receipts from the sale or lease 
     of land or interest in land that is part of the National Park 
     System, National Wildlife Refuge System, National Wild and 
     Scenic Rivers System, National Trails System, National 
     Wilderness Preservation System, National Forest System, or a 
     National Monument shall not be taken into account with 
     respect to the level of budget authority, outlays, or 
     revenues contained in such legislation.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1551. Mr. ENZI submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end, add the following:

        TITLE V--BUDGET PROCESS IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                     Subtitle A--Budget Enforcement

     SEC. 5101. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST INCREASING LONG-TERM DIRECT 
                   SPENDING.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the House 
     of Representatives to consider any bill or joint resolution, 
     or amendment thereto or conference report thereon, that would 
     cause a net increase in direct spending in excess of 
     $2,500,000,000 in any of the 4 consecutive 10-fiscal year 
     periods described in subsection (b).
       (b) Congressional Budget Office Analysis of Proposals.--The 
     Director of the Congressional Budget Office shall, to the 
     extent practicable, prepare an estimate of whether a bill or 
     joint resolution reported by a committee (other than the 
     Committee on Appropriations), or amendment thereto or 
     conference report thereon, would cause, relative to current 
     law, a net increase in direct spending in the House of 
     Representatives, in excess of $2,500,000,000 in any of the 4 
     consecutive 10-fiscal year periods beginning after the last 
     fiscal year of this concurrent resolution.
       (c) Limitation.--In the House of Representatives, the 
     provisions of this section shall not apply to any bills or 
     joint resolutions, or amendments thereto or conference 
     reports thereon, for which the chair of the Committee on the 
     Budget has made adjustments to the allocations, aggregates, 
     or other budgetary levels in this concurrent resolution.
       (d) Determinations of Budget Levels.--For purposes of this 
     section, the levels of net increases in direct spending shall 
     be determined on the basis of estimates provided by the chair 
     of the Committee on the Budget of the House of 
     Representatives.
       (e) Sunset.--This section shall have no force or effect 
     after September 30, 2018.

     SEC. 5102. ALLOCATION FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS/
                   GLOBAL WAR ON TERRORISM.

       (a) Separate Allocation for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism.--In the House of 
     Representatives, there shall be a separate allocation of new 
     budget authority and outlays provided to the Committee on 
     Appropriations for the purposes of Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism, which shall be deemed to 
     be an allocation under section 302(a) of the Congressional 
     Budget Act of 1974. Section 302(a)(3) of such Act shall not 
     apply to such separate allocation.
       (b) Section 302 Allocations.--The separate allocation 
     referred to in subsection (a) shall be the exclusive 
     allocation for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
     Terrorism under section 302(b) of the Congressional Budget 
     Act of 1974. The Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives may provide suballocations of such separate 
     allocation under such section 302(b).
       (c) Application.--For purposes of enforcing the separate 
     allocation referred to in subsection (a) under section 302(f) 
     of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, the ``first fiscal 
     year'' and the ``total of fiscal years'' shall be deemed to 
     refer to fiscal year 2018. Section 302(c) of such Act shall 
     not apply to such separate allocation.
       (d) Designations.--New budget authority or outlays shall 
     only be counted toward the allocation referred to in 
     subsection (a) if designated pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.
       (e) Adjustments.--For purposes of subsection (a) for fiscal 
     year 2018, no adjustment shall be made under section 314(a) 
     of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 if any adjustment 
     would be made under section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced 
     Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

     SEC. 5103. LIMITATION ON CHANGES IN CERTAIN MANDATORY 
                   PROGRAMS.

       (a) Definition.--In this section, the term ``change in 
     mandatory programs'' means a provision that--
       (1) would have been estimated as affecting direct spending 
     or receipts under section 252 of the Balanced Budget and 
     Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (as in effect prior to 
     September 30, 2002) if the provision were included in 
     legislation other than appropriation Acts; and
       (2) results in a net decrease in budget authority in the 
     budget year, but does not result in a net decrease in outlays 
     over the total of the current year, the budget year, and all 
     fiscal years covered under the most recently agreed to 
     concurrent resolution on the budget.
       (b) Point of Order in the House of Representatives.--
       (1) In general.--A provision in a bill or joint resolution 
     making appropriations for a full fiscal year that proposes a 
     change in mandatory programs that, if enacted, would cause 
     the absolute value of the total budget authority of all such 
     changes in mandatory programs enacted in relation to a full 
     fiscal year to be more than the amount specified in paragraph 
     (3), shall not be in order in the House of Representatives.
       (2) Amendments and conference reports.--It shall not be in 
     order in the House of Representatives to consider an 
     amendment to, or a conference report on, a bill or joint 
     resolution making appropriations for a full fiscal year if 
     such amendment thereto or conference report thereon proposes 
     a change in mandatory programs that, if enacted, would cause 
     the absolute value of the total budget authority of all such 
     changes in mandatory programs enacted in relation to a full 
     fiscal year to be more than the amount specified in paragraph 
     (3).
       (3) Amount.--The amount specified in this paragraph is--
       (A) for fiscal year 2018, $19,100,000,000;
       (B) for fiscal year 2019, $17,000,000,000; and
       (C) for fiscal year 2020, $15,000,000,000.
       (c) Determination.--For purposes of this section, budgetary 
     levels shall be determined on the basis of estimates provided 
     by the chair of the Committee on the Budget of the House of 
     Representatives.

     SEC. 5104. LIMITATION ON ADVANCE APPROPRIATIONS.

       (a) In General.--In the House of Representatives, except as 
     provided for in subsection (b), any general appropriation 
     bill or bill or joint resolution continuing appropriations, 
     or amendment thereto or conference report thereon, may not 
     provide advance appropriations.
       (b) Exceptions.--An advance appropriation may be provided 
     for programs, projects, activities, or accounts identified in 
     the report or the joint explanatory statement of managers, as 
     applicable, accompanying this concurrent resolution under the 
     following headings:
       (1) General.--``Accounts Identified for Advance 
     Appropriations''.
       (2) Veterans.--``Veterans Accounts Identified for Advance 
     Appropriations''.
       (c) Limitations.--The aggregate level of advance 
     appropriations shall not exceed the following:
       (1) General.--$28,852,000,000 in new budget authority for 
     all programs identified pursuant to subsection (b)(1).
       (2) Veterans.--$70,699,313,000 in new budget authority for 
     programs in the Department of Veterans Affairs identified 
     pursuant to subsection (b)(2).
       (d) Definition.--In this section, the term ``advance 
     appropriation'' means any new discretionary budget authority 
     provided in a general appropriation bill or joint resolution

[[Page S6693]]

     continuing appropriations for fiscal year 2018, or any 
     amendment thereto or conference report thereon, that first 
     becomes available for the first fiscal year following fiscal 
     year 2018.

     SEC. 5105. ESTIMATES OF DEBT SERVICE COSTS.

       In the House of Representatives, the chair of the Committee 
     on the Budget may direct the Congressional Budget Office to 
     include, in any estimate prepared under section 402 of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974 with respect to any bill or 
     joint resolution, an estimate of any change in debt service 
     costs resulting from carrying out such bill or resolution. 
     Any estimate of debt service costs provided under this 
     section shall be advisory and shall not be used for purposes 
     of enforcement of such Act, the Rules of the House of 
     Representatives, or this concurrent resolution. This section 
     shall not apply to authorizations of programs funded by 
     discretionary spending or to appropriation bills or joint 
     resolutions, but shall apply to changes in the authorization 
     level of appropriated entitlements.

     SEC. 5106. FAIR-VALUE CREDIT ESTIMATES.

       (a) All Credit Programs.--Whenever the Director of the 
     Congressional Budget Office provides an estimate of any 
     measure that establishes or modifies any program providing 
     loans or loan guarantees, the Director shall also, to the 
     extent practicable, provide a fair-value estimate of such 
     loan or loan guarantee program if requested by the chair of 
     the Committee on the Budget of the House of Representatives.
       (b) Student Financial Assistance and Housing Programs.--The 
     Director of the Congressional Budget Office shall provide, to 
     the extent practicable, a fair-value estimate as part of any 
     estimate for any measure that establishes or modifies a loan 
     or loan guarantee program for student financial assistance or 
     housing (including residential mortgage).
       (c) Baseline Estimates.--The Congressional Budget Office 
     shall include estimates, on a fair-value and credit reform 
     basis, of loan and loan guarantee programs for student 
     financial assistance, housing (including residential 
     mortgage), and such other major loan and loan guarantee 
     programs, as practicable, in its The Budget and Economic 
     Outlook: 2018 to 2027.
       (d) Enforcement in the House of Representatives.--If the 
     Director of the Congressional Budget Office provides an 
     estimate pursuant to subsection (a) or (b), the chair of the 
     Committee on the Budget of the House of Representatives may 
     use such estimate to determine compliance with the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974 and other budget enforcement 
     requirements.

     SEC. 5107. ESTIMATES OF MACROECONOMIC EFFECTS OF MAJOR 
                   LEGISLATION.

       (a) CBO and JCT Estimates.--During the 115th Congress, any 
     estimate of major legislation considered in the House of 
     Representatives provided by the Congressional Budget Office 
     under section 402 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 or 
     by the Joint Committee on Taxation to the Congressional 
     Budget Office under section 201(f) of such Act shall, to the 
     extent practicable, incorporate the budgetary effects of 
     changes in economic output, employment, capital stock, and 
     other macroeconomic variables resulting from such major 
     legislation.
       (b) Contents.--Any estimate referred to in subsection (a) 
     shall, to the extent practicable, include--
       (1) a qualitative assessment of the budgetary effects 
     (including macroeconomic variables described in subsection 
     (a)) of the major legislation in the 20-fiscal year period 
     beginning after the last fiscal year of the most recently 
     agreed to concurrent resolution on the budget that sets forth 
     budgetary levels required under section 301 of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974; and
       (2) an identification of the critical assumptions and the 
     source of data underlying that estimate.
       (c) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) Major legislation.--The term ``major legislation'' 
     means a bill or joint resolution, or amendment thereto or 
     conference report thereon--
       (A) for which an estimate is required to be prepared 
     pursuant to section 402 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
     1974 (2 U.S.C. 653) and that causes a gross budgetary effect 
     (before incorporating macroeconomic effects and not including 
     timing shifts) in a fiscal year in the period of years of the 
     most recently agreed to concurrent resolution on the budget 
     equal to or greater than 0.25 percent of the current 
     projected gross domestic product of the United States for 
     that fiscal year; or
       (B) designated as such by--
       (i) the chair of the Committee on the Budget of the House 
     of Representatives for all direct spending legislation; or
       (ii) the Member who is Chairman or Vice Chairman of the 
     Joint Committee on Taxation for revenue legislation.
       (2) Budgetary effects.--The term ``budgetary effects'' 
     means changes in revenues, direct spending outlays, and 
     deficits.
       (3) Timing shifts.--The term ``timing shifts'' means--
       (A) provisions that cause a delay of the date on which 
     outlays flowing from direct spending would otherwise occur 
     from one fiscal year to the next fiscal year; or
       (B) provisions that cause an acceleration of the date on 
     which revenues would otherwise occur from one fiscal year to 
     the prior fiscal year.

     SEC. 5108. ADJUSTMENTS FOR IMPROVED CONTROL OF BUDGETARY 
                   RESOURCES.

       (a) Adjustments of Discretionary and Direct Spending 
     Levels.--In the House of Representatives, if a committee 
     (other than the Committee on Appropriations) reports a bill 
     or joint resolution, or an amendment thereto is offered or 
     conference report thereon is submitted, providing for a 
     decrease in direct spending (budget authority and outlays 
     flowing therefrom) for any fiscal year and also provides for 
     an authorization of appropriations for the same purpose, upon 
     the enactment of such measure, the chair of the Committee on 
     the Budget may decrease the allocation to the applicable 
     authorizing committee that reports such measure and increase 
     the allocation of discretionary spending (budget authority 
     and outlays flowing therefrom) to the Committee on 
     Appropriations for fiscal year 2018 by an amount equal to the 
     new budget authority (and outlays flowing therefrom) provided 
     for in a bill or joint resolution making appropriations for 
     the same purpose.
       (b) Determinations.--In the House of Representatives, for 
     purposes of enforcing this concurrent resolution, the 
     allocations and aggregate levels of new budget authority, 
     outlays, direct spending, revenues, deficits, and surpluses 
     for fiscal year 2018 and the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027 shall be determined on the basis of estimates 
     made by the chair of the Committee on the Budget and such 
     chair may adjust the applicable levels in this concurrent 
     resolution.

     SEC. 5109. SCORING RULE FOR ENERGY SAVINGS PERFORMANCE 
                   CONTRACTS.

       (a) In General.--The Director of the Congressional Budget 
     Office shall estimate provisions of any bill or joint 
     resolution, or amendment thereto or conference report 
     thereon, that provides the authority to enter into or modify 
     any covered energy savings contract on a net present value 
     basis (NPV).
       (b) NPV Calculations.--The net present value of any covered 
     energy savings contract shall be calculated as follows:
       (1) The discount rate shall reflect market risk.
       (2) The cash flows shall include, whether classified as 
     mandatory or discretionary, payments to contractors under the 
     terms of their contracts, payments to contractors for other 
     services, and direct savings in energy and energy-related 
     costs.
       (3) The stream of payments shall cover the period covered 
     by the contracts but not to exceed 25 years.
       (c) Definition.--As used in this section, the term 
     ``covered energy savings contract'' means--
       (1) an energy savings performance contract authorized under 
     section 801 of the National Energy Conservation Policy Act; 
     or
       (2) a utility energy service contract, as described in the 
     Office of Management and Budget Memorandum on Federal Use of 
     Energy Savings Performance Contracting, dated July 25, 1998 
     (M-98-13), and the Office of Management and Budget Memorandum 
     on the Federal Use of Energy Saving Performance Contracts and 
     Utility Energy Service Contracts, dated September 28, 2015 
     (M-12-21), or any successor to either memorandum.
       (d) Enforcement in the House of Representatives.--In the 
     House of Representatives, if any net present value of any 
     covered energy savings contract calculated under subsection 
     (b) results in a net savings, then the budgetary effects of 
     such contract shall not be counted for purposes of titles III 
     and IV of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, this 
     concurrent resolution, or clause 10 of rule XXI of the Rules 
     of the House of Representatives.
       (e) Classification of Spending.--For purposes of budget 
     enforcement, the estimated net present value of the budget 
     authority provided by the measure, and outlays flowing 
     therefrom, shall be classified as direct spending.
       (f) Sense of the House of Representatives.--It is the sense 
     of the House of Representatives that--
       (1) the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, in 
     consultation with the Director of the Congressional Budget 
     Office, should separately identify the cash flows under 
     subsection (b)(2) and include such information in the 
     President's annual budget submission under section 1105(a) of 
     title 31, United States Code; and
       (2) the scoring method used in this section should not be 
     used to score any contracts other than covered energy savings 
     contracts.

     SEC. 5110. LIMITATION ON TRANSFERS FROM THE GENERAL FUND OF 
                   THE TREASURY TO THE HIGHWAY TRUST FUND.

       In the House of Representatives, for purposes of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974, the Balanced Budget and 
     Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, and the rules or 
     orders of the House of Representatives, a bill or joint 
     resolution, or an amendment thereto or conference report 
     thereon, that transfers funds from the general fund of the 
     Treasury to the Highway Trust Fund shall be counted as new 
     budget authority and outlays equal to the amount of the 
     transfer in the fiscal year the transfer occurs.

     SEC. 5111. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FEDERAL RESERVE SURPLUSES AS 
                   AN OFFSET.

       In the House of Representatives, any provision of a bill or 
     joint resolution, or amendment thereto or conference report 
     thereon, that transfers any portion of the net surplus of the 
     Federal Reserve System to the general fund of the Treasury 
     shall not be counted for purposes of enforcing the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974, this concurrent resolution, 
     or clause 10 of rule XXI of the Rules of the House of 
     Representatives.

[[Page S6694]]

  


     SEC. 5112. PROHIBITION ON USE OF GUARANTEE FEES AS AN OFFSET.

       In the House of Representatives, any provision of a bill or 
     joint resolution, or amendment thereto or conference report 
     thereon, that increases, or extends the increase of, any 
     guarantee fees of the Federal National Mortgage Association 
     (Fannie Mae) or the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 
     (Freddie Mac) shall not be counted for purposes of enforcing 
     the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, this concurrent 
     resolution, or clause 10 of rule XXI of the Rules of the 
     House of Representatives.

     SEC. 5113. MODIFICATION OF RECONCILIATION IN THE HOUSE OF 
                   REPRESENTATIVES.

       (a) In General.--Section 2002 shall have no force or 
     effect.
       (b) Reconciliation in the House of Representatives.--Not 
     later than November 13, 2017, the Committee on Ways and Means 
     of the House of Representatives shall report to the House of 
     Representatives changes in laws within its jurisdiction that 
     increase the deficit by not more than $1,500,000,000,000 for 
     the period of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.

                      Subtitle B--Other Provisions

     SEC. 5201. BUDGETARY TREATMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.

       (a) In General.--In the House of Representatives, 
     notwithstanding section 302(a)(1) of the Congressional Budget 
     Act of 1974, section 13301 of the Budget Enforcement Act of 
     1990, and section 2009a of title 39, United States Code, the 
     report or the joint explanatory statement, as applicable, 
     accompanying this concurrent resolution shall include in its 
     allocation to the Committee on Appropriations under section 
     302(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 amounts for 
     the discretionary administrative expenses of the Social 
     Security Administration and the United States Postal Service.
       (b) Special Rule.--In the House of Representatives, for 
     purposes of enforcing section 302(f) of the Congressional 
     Budget Act of 1974, estimates of the levels of total new 
     budget authority and total outlays provided by a measure 
     shall include any discretionary amounts described in 
     subsection (a).

     SEC. 5202. APPLICATION AND EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ALLOCATIONS 
                   AND AGGREGATES.

       (a) Application.--In the House of Representatives, any 
     adjustments of the allocations, aggregates, and other 
     budgetary levels made pursuant to this concurrent resolution 
     shall--
       (1) apply while that measure is under consideration;
       (2) take effect upon the enactment of that measure; and
       (3) be published in the Congressional Record as soon as 
     practicable.
       (b) Effect of Changed Allocations and Aggregates.--Revised 
     allocations and aggregates resulting from these adjustments 
     shall be considered for the purposes of the Congressional 
     Budget Act of 1974 as the allocations and aggregates 
     contained in this concurrent resolution.
       (c) Budget Committee Determinations.--For purposes of this 
     concurrent resolution, the budgetary levels for a fiscal year 
     or period of fiscal years shall be determined on the basis of 
     estimates made by the chair of the Committee on the Budget of 
     the House of Representatives.
       (d) Aggregates, Allocations and Application.--In the House 
     of Representatives, for purposes of this concurrent 
     resolution and budget enforcement, the consideration of any 
     bill or joint resolution, or amendment thereto or conference 
     report thereon, for which the chair of the Committee on the 
     Budget makes adjustments or revisions in the allocations, 
     aggregates, and other budgetary levels of this concurrent 
     resolution shall not be subject to the points of order set 
     forth in clause 10 of rule XXI of the Rules of the House of 
     Representatives or section 5101 of this concurrent 
     resolution.
       (e) Other Adjustments.--The chair of the Committee on the 
     Budget of the House of Representatives may adjust other 
     appropriate levels in this concurrent resolution depending on 
     congressional action on pending reconciliation legislation.

     SEC. 5203. ADJUSTMENTS TO REFLECT CHANGES IN CONCEPTS AND 
                   DEFINITIONS.

       In the House of Representatives, the chair of the Committee 
     on the Budget may adjust the appropriate aggregates, 
     allocations, and other budgetary levels in this concurrent 
     resolution for any change in budgetary concepts and 
     definitions consistent with section 251(b)(1) of the Balanced 
     Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

     SEC. 5204. ADJUSTMENT FOR CHANGES IN THE BASELINE.

       In the House of Representatives, the chair of the Committee 
     on the Budget may adjust the allocations, aggregates, 
     reconciliation targets, and other appropriate budgetary 
     levels in this concurrent resolution to reflect changes 
     resulting from the Congressional Budget Office's update to 
     its baseline for fiscal years 2018 through 2027.

     SEC. 5205. APPLICATION OF RULE REGARDING LIMITS ON 
                   DISCRETIONARY SPENDING.

       Section 314(f) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 
     shall not apply in the House of Representatives to any bill, 
     joint resolution, or amendment that provides new budget 
     authority for a fiscal year or to any conference report on 
     any such bill or resolution if--
       (1) the enactment of that bill or resolution;
       (2) the adoption and enactment of that amendment; or
       (3) the enactment of that bill or resolution in the form 
     recommended in that conference report,
     would not cause the 302(a) allocation to the Committee on 
     Appropriations for fiscal year 2018 to be exceeded.

     SEC. 5206. ENFORCEMENT FILING IN THE HOUSE.

       In the House of Representatives, if a concurrent resolution 
     on the budget for fiscal year 2018 is adopted without the 
     appointment of a committee of conference on the disagreeing 
     votes of the two Houses with respect to this concurrent 
     resolution on the budget, for the purpose of enforcing the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974 and applicable rules and 
     requirements set forth in the concurrent resolution on the 
     budget, the allocations and list provided for in this section 
     shall apply in the House of Representatives in the same 
     manner as if such allocations and list were in a joint 
     explanatory statement accompanying a conference report on the 
     budget for fiscal year 2018. The chair of the Committee on 
     the Budget of the House of Representatives shall submit a 
     statement for publication in the Congressional Record 
     containing--
       (1) for the Committee on Appropriations, committee 
     allocations for fiscal year 2018 consistent with title I for 
     the purpose of enforcing section 302 of the Congressional 
     Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 633);
       (2) for all committees other than the Committee on 
     Appropriations, committee allocations consistent with title I 
     for fiscal year 2018 and for the period of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027 for the purpose of enforcing 302 of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 633); and
       (3) a list of programs, projects, activities, or accounts 
     identified for advance appropriations for the purpose of 
     enforcing section 5104 of this concurrent resolution.

     SEC. 5207. EXERCISE OF RULEMAKING POWERS.

       The House of Representatives adopts the provisions of this 
     title and section 2002--
       (1) as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the House of 
     Representatives, and as such they shall be considered as part 
     of the rules of the House of Representatives, and such rules 
     shall supersede other rules only to the extent that they are 
     inconsistent with such other rules; and
       (2) with full recognition of the constitutional right of 
     the House of Representatives to change those rules at any 
     time, in the same manner, and to the same extent as is the 
     case of any other rule of the House of Representatives.

                    Subtitle C--Adjustment Authority

     SEC. 5301. ADJUSTMENT AUTHORITY FOR AMENDMENTS TO STATUTORY 
                   CAPS.

       During the 115th Congress, if a measure becomes law that 
     amends the discretionary spending limits established under 
     section 251(c) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901(c)), such as a measure 
     increasing the limit for the revised security category for 
     fiscal year 2018 to be $640,000,000,000, the chair of the 
     Committee on the Budget of the House of Representatives may 
     adjust the allocation called for under section 302(a) of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 633(a)) to the 
     appropriate committee or committees of the House of 
     Representatives, and may adjust all other budgetary 
     aggregates, allocations, levels, and limits contained in this 
     resolution, as necessary, consistent with such measure.

                       Subtitle D--Reserve Funds

     SEC. 5401. RESERVE FUND FOR COMMERCIALIZATION OF AIR TRAFFIC 
                   CONTROL.

       (a) In General.--In the House of Representatives, the chair 
     of the Committee on the Budget may adjust, at a time the 
     chair deems appropriate, the section 302(a) allocation to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and other 
     applicable committees of the House of Representatives, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels established in this 
     concurrent resolution for a bill or joint resolution, or 
     amendment thereto or conference report thereon, that 
     commercializes the operations of the air traffic control 
     system if such measure reduces the discretionary spending 
     limits in section 251(c) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985 by the amount that would 
     otherwise be appropriated to the Federal Aviation 
     Administration for air traffic control. Adjustments to the 
     section 302(a) allocation to the Committee on Appropriations, 
     consistent with the adjustments to the discretionary spending 
     limits under such section 251(c), shall only be made upon 
     enactment of such measure.
       (b) Definition.--For purposes of this section, a measure 
     that commercializes the operations of the air traffic control 
     system shall be a measure that establishes a Federally-
     chartered, not-for-profit corporation that--
       (1) is authorized to provide air traffic control services 
     within the United States airspace;
       (2) sets user fees to finance its operations;
       (3) may borrow from private capital markets to finance 
     improvements;
       (4) is governed by a board of directors composed of a CEO 
     and directors whose fiduciary duty is to the entity; and
       (5) becomes the employer of those employees directly 
     connected to providing air traffic control services and who 
     the Secretary transfers from the Federal Government.

     SEC. 5402. RESERVE FUND FOR INVESTMENTS IN NATIONAL 
                   INFRASTRUCTURE.

       In the House of Representatives, the chair of the Committee 
     on the Budget may adjust

[[Page S6695]]

     the allocations, aggregates, and other appropriate levels in 
     this concurrent resolution for any bill or joint resolution, 
     or amendment thereto or conference report thereon, that 
     invests in national infrastructure to the extent that such 
     measure is deficit neutral for the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.

     SEC. 5403. RESERVE FUND FOR COMPREHENSIVE TAX REFORM.

       In the House of Representatives, if the Committee on Ways 
     and Means reports a bill or joint resolution that provides 
     for comprehensive tax reform, the chair of the Committee on 
     the Budget may adjust the allocations, aggregates, and other 
     appropriate budgetary levels in this concurrent resolution 
     for the budgetary effects of any such bill or joint 
     resolution, or amendment thereto or conference report 
     thereon, if such measure would not increase the deficit for 
     the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.

     SEC. 5404. RESERVE FUND FOR THE STATE CHILDREN'S HEALTH 
                   INSURANCE PROGRAM.

       In the House of Representatives, the chair of the Committee 
     on the Budget may adjust the allocations, budget aggregates 
     and other appropriate levels in this concurrent resolution 
     for the budgetary effects of any bill or joint resolution, or 
     amendment thereto or conference report thereon, that extends 
     the State Children's Health Insurance Program allotments, if 
     such measure would not increase the deficit for the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.

     SEC. 5405. RESERVE FUND FOR THE REPEAL OR REPLACEMENT OF 
                   PRESIDENT OBAMA'S HEALTH CARE LAWS.

       In the House of Representatives, the chair of the Committee 
     on the Budget may revise the allocations, aggregates, and 
     other appropriate budgetary levels in this concurrent 
     resolution for the budgetary effects of any bill or joint 
     resolution, or amendment thereto or conference report 
     thereon, that repeals or replaces any provision of the 
     Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act or title I or 
     subtitle B of title II of the Health Care and Education 
     Reconciliation Act of 2010 by the amount of budget authority 
     and outlays flowing therefrom provided by such measure for 
     such purpose.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1552. Mr. ENZI (for Mrs. Fischer (for herself and Ms. Collins)) 
proposed an amendment to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the 
concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional 
budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 2018 and 
setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 
through 2027; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3 ___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO TAX 
                   REFORM WHICH MAINTAINS THE PROGRESSIVITY OF THE 
                   TAX SYSTEM.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     changes in Federal tax laws, which may include tax reform 
     proposals to ensure that the reformed tax code parallels the 
     existing tax code with respect to relative burdens and does 
     not shift the tax burden from high-income to lower- and 
     middle-income taxpayers, by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over the period of 
     the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1553. Mr. ENZI (for Mr. Udall (for himself, Mr. Heinrich, and Mr. 
Bennet)) proposed an amendment to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO PROVIDING 
                   FULL, PERMANENT, AND MANDATORY FUNDING FOR THE 
                   PAYMENT IN LIEU OF TAXES PROGRAM.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     providing full, permanent, and mandatory funding for the 
     payment in lieu of taxes program by the amounts provided in 
     such legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1554. Mr. REED submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PRESCRIPTION DRUG COSTS UNDER THE MEDICARE 
                   PROGRAM.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     prescription drug costs under the Medicare program, which may 
     include making prescription drugs more affordable for seniors 
     and for taxpayers by requiring the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services to negotiate prescription drug costs under the 
     Medicare program, particularly with inverted corporations 
     that benefit from Medicare program reimbursements, by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1555. Mr. FRANKEN (for himself and Ms. Baldwin) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO CLOSING 
                   THE CARRIED INTEREST LOOPHOLE.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to the 
     taxation of income from investment partnerships (known as 
     carried interest), which may include legislation that allows 
     for the taxing as ordinary income of a partner's share of 
     income on an investment services partnership interest, by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1556. Mr. FRANKEN (for himself and Mr. Casey) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-REDUCTION RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PREVENTING WORKER MISCLASSIFICATION.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     ensuring that workers are appropriately classified as 
     employees or independent contractors for purposes of labor 
     law and payroll taxes, by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would reduce the deficit over both the period of 
     the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 and the period of 
     the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1557. Mr. FRANKEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO PUBLIC-
                   PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS FOR JOB TRAINING.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills,

[[Page S6696]]

     joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between the Houses, 
     motions, or conference reports relating to employment and job 
     growth, which may include programs that encourage job 
     training partnerships between businesses, educational 
     institutions, and the workforce development system, by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1558. Ms. WARREN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO THE 
                   DISCHARGE OF FEDERAL AND PRIVATE STUDENT LOANS 
                   IN BANKRUPTCY.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     bankruptcy discharge in order to allow Federal and private 
     student loan borrowers to discharge their student loans in 
     bankruptcy, by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1559. Ms. WARREN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO STUDENT 
                   LOAN REFINANCING.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     student loan refinancing to help middle class families and 
     borrowers with outstanding Federal and private student loans 
     to refinance at the equivalent interest rates that were 
     offered to Federal student loan borrowers during the 2016-
     2017 school year and to fully offset the cost of such a 
     program by requiring millionaires to pay at least a 30 
     percent effective Federal tax rate, by the amounts provided 
     in such legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1560. Ms. WARREN (for herself and Mr. Brown) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. 
Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO FEDERAL 
                   STUDENT LOAN BORROWERS ELIGIBLE FOR A BORROWER 
                   DEFENSE TO REPAYMENT.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     Federal student loan borrowers eligible for a borrower 
     defense to repayment in order to automatically discharge the 
     total amount of Federal student loans of all borrowers who 
     attended Corinthian Colleges or ITT Educational Services, and 
     all other Federal student loan borrowers eligible for a 
     borrower defense to repayment under section 455(h) of the 
     Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087e(h)), by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1561. Mr. ENZI proposed an amendment to amendment SA 1116 proposed 
by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, establishing 
the congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal 
year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027; as follows:

       At the end, add the following:

        TITLE V--BUDGET PROCESS IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                     Subtitle A--Budget Enforcement

     SEC. 5101. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST INCREASING LONG-TERM DIRECT 
                   SPENDING.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the House 
     of Representatives to consider any bill or joint resolution, 
     or amendment thereto or conference report thereon, that would 
     cause a net increase in direct spending in excess of 
     $2,500,000,000 in any of the 4 consecutive 10-fiscal year 
     periods described in subsection (b).
       (b) Congressional Budget Office Analysis of Proposals.--The 
     Director of the Congressional Budget Office shall, to the 
     extent practicable, prepare an estimate of whether a bill or 
     joint resolution reported by a committee (other than the 
     Committee on Appropriations), or amendment thereto or 
     conference report thereon, would cause, relative to current 
     law, a net increase in direct spending in the House of 
     Representatives, in excess of $2,500,000,000 in any of the 4 
     consecutive 10-fiscal year periods beginning after the last 
     fiscal year of this concurrent resolution.
       (c) Limitation.--In the House of Representatives, the 
     provisions of this section shall not apply to any bills or 
     joint resolutions, or amendments thereto or conference 
     reports thereon, for which the chair of the Committee on the 
     Budget has made adjustments to the allocations, aggregates, 
     or other budgetary levels in this concurrent resolution.
       (d) Determinations of Budget Levels.--For purposes of this 
     section, the levels of net increases in direct spending shall 
     be determined on the basis of estimates provided by the chair 
     of the Committee on the Budget of the House of 
     Representatives.
       (e) Sunset.--This section shall have no force or effect 
     after September 30, 2018.

     SEC. 5102. ALLOCATION FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS/
                   GLOBAL WAR ON TERRORISM.

       (a) Separate Allocation for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism.--In the House of 
     Representatives, there shall be a separate allocation of new 
     budget authority and outlays provided to the Committee on 
     Appropriations for the purposes of Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism, which shall be deemed to 
     be an allocation under section 302(a) of the Congressional 
     Budget Act of 1974. Section 302(a)(3) of such Act shall not 
     apply to such separate allocation.
       (b) Section 302 Allocations.--The separate allocation 
     referred to in subsection (a) shall be the exclusive 
     allocation for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
     Terrorism under section 302(b) of the Congressional Budget 
     Act of 1974. The Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives may provide suballocations of such separate 
     allocation under such section 302(b).
       (c) Application.--For purposes of enforcing the separate 
     allocation referred to in subsection (a) under section 302(f) 
     of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, the ``first fiscal 
     year'' and the ``total of fiscal years'' shall be deemed to 
     refer to fiscal year 2018. Section 302(c) of such Act shall 
     not apply to such separate allocation.
       (d) Designations.--New budget authority or outlays shall 
     only be counted toward the allocation referred to in 
     subsection (a) if designated pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.
       (e) Adjustments.--For purposes of subsection (a) for fiscal 
     year 2018, no adjustment shall be made under section 314(a) 
     of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 if any adjustment 
     would be made under section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced 
     Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

     SEC. 5103. LIMITATION ON CHANGES IN CERTAIN MANDATORY 
                   PROGRAMS.

       (a) Definition.--In this section, the term ``change in 
     mandatory programs'' means a provision that--
       (1) would have been estimated as affecting direct spending 
     or receipts under section 252 of the Balanced Budget and 
     Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (as in effect prior to 
     September 30, 2002) if the provision were included in 
     legislation other than appropriation Acts; and
       (2) results in a net decrease in budget authority in the 
     budget year, but does not result in a net decrease in outlays 
     over the total of the current year, the budget year, and all 
     fiscal years covered under the most recently agreed to 
     concurrent resolution on the budget.
       (b) Point of Order in the House of Representatives.--
       (1) In general.--A provision in a bill or joint resolution 
     making appropriations for a full fiscal year that proposes a 
     change in mandatory programs that, if enacted, would cause 
     the absolute value of the total budget authority of all such 
     changes in mandatory programs enacted in relation to a full 
     fiscal year to be more than the amount specified in

[[Page S6697]]

     paragraph (3), shall not be in order in the House of 
     Representatives.
       (2) Amendments and conference reports.--It shall not be in 
     order in the House of Representatives to consider an 
     amendment to, or a conference report on, a bill or joint 
     resolution making appropriations for a full fiscal year if 
     such amendment thereto or conference report thereon proposes 
     a change in mandatory programs that, if enacted, would cause 
     the absolute value of the total budget authority of all such 
     changes in mandatory programs enacted in relation to a full 
     fiscal year to be more than the amount specified in paragraph 
     (3).
       (3) Amount.--The amount specified in this paragraph is--
       (A) for fiscal year 2018, $19,100,000,000;
       (B) for fiscal year 2019, $17,000,000,000; and
       (C) for fiscal year 2020, $15,000,000,000.
       (c) Determination.--For purposes of this section, budgetary 
     levels shall be determined on the basis of estimates provided 
     by the chair of the Committee on the Budget of the House of 
     Representatives.

     SEC. 5104. LIMITATION ON ADVANCE APPROPRIATIONS.

       (a) In General.--In the House of Representatives, except as 
     provided for in subsection (b), any general appropriation 
     bill or bill or joint resolution continuing appropriations, 
     or amendment thereto or conference report thereon, may not 
     provide advance appropriations.
       (b) Exceptions.--An advance appropriation may be provided 
     for programs, projects, activities, or accounts identified in 
     the report or the joint explanatory statement of managers, as 
     applicable, accompanying this concurrent resolution under the 
     following headings:
       (1) General.--``Accounts Identified for Advance 
     Appropriations''.
       (2) Veterans.--``Veterans Accounts Identified for Advance 
     Appropriations''.
       (c) Limitations.--The aggregate level of advance 
     appropriations shall not exceed the following:
       (1) General.--$28,852,000,000 in new budget authority for 
     all programs identified pursuant to subsection (b)(1).
       (2) Veterans.--$70,699,313,000 in new budget authority for 
     programs in the Department of Veterans Affairs identified 
     pursuant to subsection (b)(2).
       (d) Definition.--In this section, the term ``advance 
     appropriation'' means any new discretionary budget authority 
     provided in a general appropriation bill or joint resolution 
     continuing appropriations for fiscal year 2018, or any 
     amendment thereto or conference report thereon, that first 
     becomes available for the first fiscal year following fiscal 
     year 2018.

     SEC. 5105. ESTIMATES OF DEBT SERVICE COSTS.

       In the House of Representatives, the chair of the Committee 
     on the Budget may direct the Congressional Budget Office to 
     include, in any estimate prepared under section 402 of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974 with respect to any bill or 
     joint resolution, an estimate of any change in debt service 
     costs resulting from carrying out such bill or resolution. 
     Any estimate of debt service costs provided under this 
     section shall be advisory and shall not be used for purposes 
     of enforcement of such Act, the Rules of the House of 
     Representatives, or this concurrent resolution. This section 
     shall not apply to authorizations of programs funded by 
     discretionary spending or to appropriation bills or joint 
     resolutions, but shall apply to changes in the authorization 
     level of appropriated entitlements.

     SEC. 5106. FAIR-VALUE CREDIT ESTIMATES.

       (a) All Credit Programs.--Whenever the Director of the 
     Congressional Budget Office provides an estimate of any 
     measure that establishes or modifies any program providing 
     loans or loan guarantees, the Director shall also, to the 
     extent practicable, provide a fair-value estimate of such 
     loan or loan guarantee program if requested by the chair of 
     the Committee on the Budget of the House of Representatives.
       (b) Student Financial Assistance and Housing Programs.--The 
     Director of the Congressional Budget Office shall provide, to 
     the extent practicable, a fair-value estimate as part of any 
     estimate for any measure that establishes or modifies a loan 
     or loan guarantee program for student financial assistance or 
     housing (including residential mortgage).
       (c) Baseline Estimates.--The Congressional Budget Office 
     shall include estimates, on a fair-value and credit reform 
     basis, of loan and loan guarantee programs for student 
     financial assistance, housing (including residential 
     mortgage), and such other major loan and loan guarantee 
     programs, as practicable, in its The Budget and Economic 
     Outlook: 2018 to 2027.
       (d) Enforcement in the House of Representatives.--If the 
     Director of the Congressional Budget Office provides an 
     estimate pursuant to subsection (a) or (b), the chair of the 
     Committee on the Budget of the House of Representatives may 
     use such estimate to determine compliance with the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974 and other budget enforcement 
     requirements.

     SEC. 5107. ESTIMATES OF MACROECONOMIC EFFECTS OF MAJOR 
                   LEGISLATION.

       (a) CBO and JCT Estimates.--During the 115th Congress, any 
     estimate of major legislation considered in the House of 
     Representatives provided by the Congressional Budget Office 
     under section 402 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 or 
     by the Joint Committee on Taxation to the Congressional 
     Budget Office under section 201(f) of such Act shall, to the 
     extent practicable, incorporate the budgetary effects of 
     changes in economic output, employment, capital stock, and 
     other macroeconomic variables resulting from such major 
     legislation.
       (b) Contents.--Any estimate referred to in subsection (a) 
     shall, to the extent practicable, include--
       (1) a qualitative assessment of the budgetary effects 
     (including macroeconomic variables described in subsection 
     (a)) of the major legislation in the 20-fiscal year period 
     beginning after the last fiscal year of the most recently 
     agreed to concurrent resolution on the budget that sets forth 
     budgetary levels required under section 301 of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974; and
       (2) an identification of the critical assumptions and the 
     source of data underlying that estimate.
       (c) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) Major legislation.--The term ``major legislation'' 
     means a bill or joint resolution, or amendment thereto or 
     conference report thereon--
       (A) for which an estimate is required to be prepared 
     pursuant to section 402 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
     1974 (2 U.S.C. 653) and that causes a gross budgetary effect 
     (before incorporating macroeconomic effects and not including 
     timing shifts) in a fiscal year in the period of years of the 
     most recently agreed to concurrent resolution on the budget 
     equal to or greater than 0.25 percent of the current 
     projected gross domestic product of the United States for 
     that fiscal year; or
       (B) designated as such by--
       (i) the chair of the Committee on the Budget of the House 
     of Representatives for all direct spending legislation; or
       (ii) the Member who is Chairman or Vice Chairman of the 
     Joint Committee on Taxation for revenue legislation.
       (2) Budgetary effects.--The term ``budgetary effects'' 
     means changes in revenues, direct spending outlays, and 
     deficits.
       (3) Timing shifts.--The term ``timing shifts'' means--
       (A) provisions that cause a delay of the date on which 
     outlays flowing from direct spending would otherwise occur 
     from one fiscal year to the next fiscal year; or
       (B) provisions that cause an acceleration of the date on 
     which revenues would otherwise occur from one fiscal year to 
     the prior fiscal year.

     SEC. 5108. ADJUSTMENTS FOR IMPROVED CONTROL OF BUDGETARY 
                   RESOURCES.

       (a) Adjustments of Discretionary and Direct Spending 
     Levels.--In the House of Representatives, if a committee 
     (other than the Committee on Appropriations) reports a bill 
     or joint resolution, or an amendment thereto is offered or 
     conference report thereon is submitted, providing for a 
     decrease in direct spending (budget authority and outlays 
     flowing therefrom) for any fiscal year and also provides for 
     an authorization of appropriations for the same purpose, upon 
     the enactment of such measure, the chair of the Committee on 
     the Budget may decrease the allocation to the applicable 
     authorizing committee that reports such measure and increase 
     the allocation of discretionary spending (budget authority 
     and outlays flowing therefrom) to the Committee on 
     Appropriations for fiscal year 2018 by an amount equal to the 
     new budget authority (and outlays flowing therefrom) provided 
     for in a bill or joint resolution making appropriations for 
     the same purpose.
       (b) Determinations.--In the House of Representatives, for 
     purposes of enforcing this concurrent resolution, the 
     allocations and aggregate levels of new budget authority, 
     outlays, direct spending, revenues, deficits, and surpluses 
     for fiscal year 2018 and the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027 shall be determined on the basis of estimates 
     made by the chair of the Committee on the Budget and such 
     chair may adjust the applicable levels in this concurrent 
     resolution.

     SEC. 5109. SCORING RULE FOR ENERGY SAVINGS PERFORMANCE 
                   CONTRACTS.

       (a) In General.--The Director of the Congressional Budget 
     Office shall estimate provisions of any bill or joint 
     resolution, or amendment thereto or conference report 
     thereon, that provides the authority to enter into or modify 
     any covered energy savings contract on a net present value 
     basis (NPV).
       (b) NPV Calculations.--The net present value of any covered 
     energy savings contract shall be calculated as follows:
       (1) The discount rate shall reflect market risk.
       (2) The cash flows shall include, whether classified as 
     mandatory or discretionary, payments to contractors under the 
     terms of their contracts, payments to contractors for other 
     services, and direct savings in energy and energy-related 
     costs.
       (3) The stream of payments shall cover the period covered 
     by the contracts but not to exceed 25 years.
       (c) Definition.--As used in this section, the term 
     ``covered energy savings contract'' means--
       (1) an energy savings performance contract authorized under 
     section 801 of the National Energy Conservation Policy Act; 
     or
       (2) a utility energy service contract, as described in the 
     Office of Management and Budget Memorandum on Federal Use of 
     Energy Savings Performance Contracting, dated July 25, 1998 
     (M-98-13), and the Office of Management and Budget Memorandum 
     on the Federal Use of Energy Saving Performance Contracts and 
     Utility Energy Service Contracts, dated September 28, 2015 
     (M-12-21), or any successor to either memorandum.

[[Page S6698]]

       (d) Enforcement in the House of Representatives.--In the 
     House of Representatives, if any net present value of any 
     covered energy savings contract calculated under subsection 
     (b) results in a net savings, then the budgetary effects of 
     such contract shall not be counted for purposes of titles III 
     and IV of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, this 
     concurrent resolution, or clause 10 of rule XXI of the Rules 
     of the House of Representatives.
       (e) Classification of Spending.--For purposes of budget 
     enforcement, the estimated net present value of the budget 
     authority provided by the measure, and outlays flowing 
     therefrom, shall be classified as direct spending.
       (f) Sense of the House of Representatives.--It is the sense 
     of the House of Representatives that--
       (1) the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, in 
     consultation with the Director of the Congressional Budget 
     Office, should separately identify the cash flows under 
     subsection (b)(2) and include such information in the 
     President's annual budget submission under section 1105(a) of 
     title 31, United States Code; and
       (2) the scoring method used in this section should not be 
     used to score any contracts other than covered energy savings 
     contracts.

     SEC. 5110. LIMITATION ON TRANSFERS FROM THE GENERAL FUND OF 
                   THE TREASURY TO THE HIGHWAY TRUST FUND.

       In the House of Representatives, for purposes of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974, the Balanced Budget and 
     Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, and the rules or 
     orders of the House of Representatives, a bill or joint 
     resolution, or an amendment thereto or conference report 
     thereon, that transfers funds from the general fund of the 
     Treasury to the Highway Trust Fund shall be counted as new 
     budget authority and outlays equal to the amount of the 
     transfer in the fiscal year the transfer occurs.

     SEC. 5111. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FEDERAL RESERVE SURPLUSES AS 
                   AN OFFSET.

       In the House of Representatives, any provision of a bill or 
     joint resolution, or amendment thereto or conference report 
     thereon, that transfers any portion of the net surplus of the 
     Federal Reserve System to the general fund of the Treasury 
     shall not be counted for purposes of enforcing the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974, this concurrent resolution, 
     or clause 10 of rule XXI of the Rules of the House of 
     Representatives.

     SEC. 5112. PROHIBITION ON USE OF GUARANTEE FEES AS AN OFFSET.

       In the House of Representatives, any provision of a bill or 
     joint resolution, or amendment thereto or conference report 
     thereon, that increases, or extends the increase of, any 
     guarantee fees of the Federal National Mortgage Association 
     (Fannie Mae) or the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 
     (Freddie Mac) shall not be counted for purposes of enforcing 
     the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, this concurrent 
     resolution, or clause 10 of rule XXI of the Rules of the 
     House of Representatives.

     SEC. 5113. MODIFICATION OF RECONCILIATION IN THE HOUSE OF 
                   REPRESENTATIVES.

       (a) In General.--Section 2002 shall have no force or 
     effect.
       (b) Reconciliation in the House of Representatives.--Not 
     later than November 13, 2017, the Committee on Ways and Means 
     of the House of Representatives shall report to the House of 
     Representatives changes in laws within its jurisdiction that 
     increase the deficit by not more than $1,500,000,000,000 for 
     the period of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.

                      Subtitle B--Other Provisions

     SEC. 5201. BUDGETARY TREATMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.

       (a) In General.--In the House of Representatives, 
     notwithstanding section 302(a)(1) of the Congressional Budget 
     Act of 1974, section 13301 of the Budget Enforcement Act of 
     1990, and section 2009a of title 39, United States Code, the 
     report or the joint explanatory statement, as applicable, 
     accompanying this concurrent resolution shall include in its 
     allocation to the Committee on Appropriations under section 
     302(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 amounts for 
     the discretionary administrative expenses of the Social 
     Security Administration and the United States Postal Service.
       (b) Special Rule.--In the House of Representatives, for 
     purposes of enforcing section 302(f) of the Congressional 
     Budget Act of 1974, estimates of the levels of total new 
     budget authority and total outlays provided by a measure 
     shall include any discretionary amounts described in 
     subsection (a).

     SEC. 5202. APPLICATION AND EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ALLOCATIONS 
                   AND AGGREGATES.

       (a) Application.--In the House of Representatives, any 
     adjustments of the allocations, aggregates, and other 
     budgetary levels made pursuant to this concurrent resolution 
     shall--
       (1) apply while that measure is under consideration;
       (2) take effect upon the enactment of that measure; and
       (3) be published in the Congressional Record as soon as 
     practicable.
       (b) Effect of Changed Allocations and Aggregates.--Revised 
     allocations and aggregates resulting from these adjustments 
     shall be considered for the purposes of the Congressional 
     Budget Act of 1974 as the allocations and aggregates 
     contained in this concurrent resolution.
       (c) Budget Committee Determinations.--For purposes of this 
     concurrent resolution, the budgetary levels for a fiscal year 
     or period of fiscal years shall be determined on the basis of 
     estimates made by the chair of the Committee on the Budget of 
     the House of Representatives.
       (d) Aggregates, Allocations and Application.--In the House 
     of Representatives, for purposes of this concurrent 
     resolution and budget enforcement, the consideration of any 
     bill or joint resolution, or amendment thereto or conference 
     report thereon, for which the chair of the Committee on the 
     Budget makes adjustments or revisions in the allocations, 
     aggregates, and other budgetary levels of this concurrent 
     resolution shall not be subject to the points of order set 
     forth in clause 10 of rule XXI of the Rules of the House of 
     Representatives or section 5101 of this concurrent 
     resolution.
       (e) Other Adjustments.--The chair of the Committee on the 
     Budget of the House of Representatives may adjust other 
     appropriate levels in this concurrent resolution depending on 
     congressional action on pending reconciliation legislation.

     SEC. 5203. ADJUSTMENTS TO REFLECT CHANGES IN CONCEPTS AND 
                   DEFINITIONS.

       In the House of Representatives, the chair of the Committee 
     on the Budget may adjust the appropriate aggregates, 
     allocations, and other budgetary levels in this concurrent 
     resolution for any change in budgetary concepts and 
     definitions consistent with section 251(b)(1) of the Balanced 
     Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

     SEC. 5204. ADJUSTMENT FOR CHANGES IN THE BASELINE.

       In the House of Representatives, the chair of the Committee 
     on the Budget may adjust the allocations, aggregates, 
     reconciliation targets, and other appropriate budgetary 
     levels in this concurrent resolution to reflect changes 
     resulting from the Congressional Budget Office's update to 
     its baseline for fiscal years 2018 through 2027.

     SEC. 5205. APPLICATION OF RULE REGARDING LIMITS ON 
                   DISCRETIONARY SPENDING.

       Section 314(f) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 
     shall not apply in the House of Representatives to any bill, 
     joint resolution, or amendment that provides new budget 
     authority for a fiscal year or to any conference report on 
     any such bill or resolution if--
       (1) the enactment of that bill or resolution;
       (2) the adoption and enactment of that amendment; or
       (3) the enactment of that bill or resolution in the form 
     recommended in that conference report,
     would not cause the 302(a) allocation to the Committee on 
     Appropriations for fiscal year 2018 to be exceeded.

     SEC. 5206. ENFORCEMENT FILING IN THE HOUSE.

       In the House of Representatives, if a concurrent resolution 
     on the budget for fiscal year 2018 is adopted without the 
     appointment of a committee of conference on the disagreeing 
     votes of the two Houses with respect to this concurrent 
     resolution on the budget, for the purpose of enforcing the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974 and applicable rules and 
     requirements set forth in the concurrent resolution on the 
     budget, the allocations and list provided for in this section 
     shall apply in the House of Representatives in the same 
     manner as if such allocations and list were in a joint 
     explanatory statement accompanying a conference report on the 
     budget for fiscal year 2018. The chair of the Committee on 
     the Budget of the House of Representatives shall submit a 
     statement for publication in the Congressional Record 
     containing--
       (1) for the Committee on Appropriations, committee 
     allocations for fiscal year 2018 consistent with title I for 
     the purpose of enforcing section 302 of the Congressional 
     Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 633);
       (2) for all committees other than the Committee on 
     Appropriations, committee allocations consistent with title I 
     for fiscal year 2018 and for the period of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027 for the purpose of enforcing 302 of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 633); and
       (3) a list of programs, projects, activities, or accounts 
     identified for advance appropriations for the purpose of 
     enforcing section 5104 of this concurrent resolution.

     SEC. 5207. EXERCISE OF RULEMAKING POWERS.

       The House of Representatives adopts the provisions of this 
     title and section 2002--
       (1) as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the House of 
     Representatives, and as such they shall be considered as part 
     of the rules of the House of Representatives, and such rules 
     shall supersede other rules only to the extent that they are 
     inconsistent with such other rules; and
       (2) with full recognition of the constitutional right of 
     the House of Representatives to change those rules at any 
     time, in the same manner, and to the same extent as is the 
     case of any other rule of the House of Representatives.

                    Subtitle C--Adjustment Authority

     SEC. 5301. ADJUSTMENT AUTHORITY FOR AMENDMENTS TO STATUTORY 
                   CAPS.

       During the 115th Congress, if a measure becomes law that 
     amends the discretionary spending limits established under 
     section 251(c) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901(c)), such as a measure 
     increasing the limit for the revised security category for 
     fiscal year 2018 to be $640,000,000,000, the chair of the

[[Page S6699]]

     Committee on the Budget of the House of Representatives may 
     adjust the allocation called for under section 302(a) of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 633(a)) to the 
     appropriate committee or committees of the House of 
     Representatives, and may adjust all other budgetary 
     aggregates, allocations, levels, and limits contained in this 
     resolution, as necessary, consistent with such measure.

                       Subtitle D--Reserve Funds

     SEC. 5401. RESERVE FUND FOR INVESTMENTS IN NATIONAL 
                   INFRASTRUCTURE.

       In the House of Representatives, the chair of the Committee 
     on the Budget may adjust the allocations, aggregates, and 
     other appropriate levels in this concurrent resolution for 
     any bill or joint resolution, or amendment thereto or 
     conference report thereon, that invests in national 
     infrastructure to the extent that such measure is deficit 
     neutral for the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.

     SEC. 5402. RESERVE FUND FOR COMPREHENSIVE TAX REFORM.

       In the House of Representatives, if the Committee on Ways 
     and Means reports a bill or joint resolution that provides 
     for comprehensive tax reform, the chair of the Committee on 
     the Budget may adjust the allocations, aggregates, and other 
     appropriate budgetary levels in this concurrent resolution 
     for the budgetary effects of any such bill or joint 
     resolution, or amendment thereto or conference report 
     thereon, if such measure would not increase the deficit for 
     the total of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.

     SEC. 5403. RESERVE FUND FOR THE STATE CHILDREN'S HEALTH 
                   INSURANCE PROGRAM.

       In the House of Representatives, the chair of the Committee 
     on the Budget may adjust the allocations, budget aggregates 
     and other appropriate levels in this concurrent resolution 
     for the budgetary effects of any bill or joint resolution, or 
     amendment thereto or conference report thereon, that extends 
     the State Children's Health Insurance Program allotments, if 
     such measure would not increase the deficit for the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.

     SEC. 5404. RESERVE FUND FOR THE REPEAL OR REPLACEMENT OF 
                   PRESIDENT OBAMA'S HEALTH CARE LAWS.

       In the House of Representatives, the chair of the Committee 
     on the Budget may revise the allocations, aggregates, and 
     other appropriate budgetary levels in this concurrent 
     resolution for the budgetary effects of any bill or joint 
     resolution, or amendment thereto or conference report 
     thereon, that repeals or replaces any provision of the 
     Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act or title I or 
     subtitle B of title II of the Health Care and Education 
     Reconciliation Act of 2010 by the amount of budget authority 
     and outlays flowing therefrom provided by such measure for 
     such purpose.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1562. Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Ms. Collins, Ms. Baldwin, and Mr. 
Booker) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 
1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, 
establishing the congressional budget for the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the 
table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PROHIBITING DISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF 
                   SEXUAL ORIENTATION OR GENDER IDENTITY.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports, relating to 
     prohibiting discrimination, such as in employment, federally 
     funded programs and activities, public accommodations, 
     education, housing, jury selection, or access to credit, 
     against individuals on the basis of sexual orientation or 
     gender identity, by the amounts provided in such legislation 
     for those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1563. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   NULLIFYING CERTAIN CIVIL ASSET FORFEITURE 
                   ORDERS ISSUED BY THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     nullifying any order implementing adoptive forfeiture 
     practices, which may include the order entitled, ``Federal 
     Forfeiture of Property Seized by State and Local Law 
     Enforcement Agencies'' (Order No. 3946-2017, dated July 19, 
     2017), by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1564. Mr. REED submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO REDUCING 
                   THE GEOGRAPHIC IMBALANCE IN FEDERAL RESEARCH 
                   FUNDING AND IMPROVING RESEARCH INFRASTRUCTURE 
                   AND CAPACITY THROUGHOUT THE STATES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to the 
     Established Program to Stimulate Competitive Research 
     (commonly known as ``ESPCoR''), which may include support for 
     States and jurisdictions that are historically underserved by 
     Federal research and development funding, by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1565. Mr. BROWN (for himself, Mr. Reed, and Mr. Menendez) 
submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to amendment SA 1116 
proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. Con. Res. 71, 
establishing the congressional budget for the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which was ordered to lie on the 
table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO ENDING 
                   CHILDHOOD LEAD POISONING.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports, relating to 
     making additional investments to end the tragedy of childhood 
     lead poisoning and avoid related preventable medical, 
     educational, criminal justice, and other costs, by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 
     through 2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1566. Mr. BROWN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution H. 
Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   ADDRESSING THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING NEEDS OF 
                   FAMILIES, VETERANS, INDIVIDUALS WITH 
                   DISABILITIES, AND SENIORS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     legislation to preserve existing affordable rental housing 
     and create additional affordable housing opportunities for 
     families, veterans, individuals with disabilities, and 
     seniors, including the 11,000,000 renter households paying 
     more than half of their income toward housing, by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.

[[Page S6700]]

  

                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1567. Ms. KLOBUCHAR submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 1116 proposed by Mr. Enzi to the concurrent resolution 
H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO LOWERING 
                   PRESCRIPTION DRUG PRICES BY LIFTING THE BAN ON 
                   MEDICARE NEGOTIATING PART D PRESCRIPTION DRUG 
                   PRICES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution, 
     and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or 
     more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, amendments between 
     the Houses, motions, or conference reports relating to 
     lowering prescription drug prices by lifting the ban that 
     makes it illegal for Medicare to negotiate prescription drug 
     prices on behalf of millions of seniors by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2027.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1568. Mr. McCONNELL proposed an amendment to the bill H.R. 2266, 
to amend title 28 of the United States Code to authorize the 
appointment of additional bankruptcy judges; and for other purposes; as 
follows:

       At the end add the following.
       ``This Act shall take effect 1 day after the date of 
     enactment.''
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1569. Mr. McCONNELL proposed an amendment to amendment SA 1568 
proposed by Mr. McConnell to the bill H.R. 2266, to amend title 28 of 
the United States Code to authorize the appointment of additional 
bankruptcy judges; and for other purposes; as follows:

       Strike ``1 day'' and insert ``2 days''
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1570. Mr. McCONNELL proposed an amendment to the bill H.R. 2266, 
to amend title 28 of the United States Code to authorize the 
appointment of additional bankruptcy judges; and for other purposes; as 
follows:

       At the end add the following.
       ``This Act shall take effect 3 days after the date of 
     enactment.''
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1571. Mr. McCONNELL proposed an amendment to amendment SA 1570 
proposed by Mr. McConnell to the bill H.R. 2266, to amend title 28 of 
the United States Code to authorize the appointment of additional 
bankruptcy judges; and for other purposes; as follows:

       Strike ``3 days'' and insert ``4 days''
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1572. Mr. McCONNELL proposed an amendment to amendment SA 1571 
proposed by Mr. McConnell to the amendment SA 1570 proposed by Mr. 
McConnell to the bill H.R. 2266, to amend title 28 of the United States 
Code to authorize the appointment of additional bankruptcy judges; as 
follows:

       Strike ``4'' and insert ``5''

                          ____________________



