

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 5 (Monday, January 9, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 5 (Monday, January 9, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S156-S161]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           TEXT OF AMENDMENTS

  SA 22. Mr. CORKER (for himself, Mr. Portman, Ms. Collins, Mr. 
Cassidy, and Ms. Murkowski) submitted an amendment intended to be 
proposed by him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting 
forth the congressional budget for the United States Government for 
fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for 
fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; 
as follows:

       On page 45, line 15, strike ``January 27'' and insert 
     ``March 3''.
       On page 46, line 11, strike ``January 27'' and insert 
     ``March 3''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 23. Mr. CORKER (for himself, Mr. Portman, Ms. Collins, Mr. 
Cassidy, and Ms. Murkowski) submitted an amendment intended to be 
proposed by him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting 
forth the congressional budget for the United States Government for 
fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for 
fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; 
as follows:

       On page 45, strike line 2 and all that follows through page 
     46, line 14, and insert the following:

     SEC. 2001. RECONCILIATION IN THE SENATE.

       (a) Committee on Finance.--The Committee on Finance of the 
     Senate shall report changes in laws within its jurisdiction 
     to reduce the deficit by not less than $1,000,000,000 for the 
     period of fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
       (b) Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.--
     The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of 
     the Senate shall report changes in laws within its 
     jurisdiction to reduce the deficit by not less than 
     $1,000,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2017 through 
     2026.
       (c) Submissions.--In the Senate, not later than March 3, 
     2017, the Committees named in subsections (a) and (b) shall 
     submit their recommendations to the Committee on the Budget 
     of the Senate. Upon receiving all such recommendations, the 
     Committee on the Budget of the Senate shall report to the 
     Senate a reconciliation bill carrying out all such 
     recommendations without any substantive revision.

     SEC. 2002. RECONCILIATION IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.

       (a) Committee on Energy and Commerce.--The Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives shall 
     submit changes in laws within its jurisdiction to reduce the 
     deficit by not less than $1,000,000,000 for the period of 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
       (b) Committee on Ways and Means.--The Committee on Ways and 
     Means of the House of Representatives shall submit changes in 
     laws within its jurisdiction to reduce the deficit by not 
     less than $1,000,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2017 
     through 2026.
       (c) Submissions.--In the House of Representatives, not 
     later than March 3, the

[[Page S157]]

     committees named in subsections (a) and (b) shall submit 
     their recommendations to the Committee on the Budget of the 
     House of Representatives to carry out this section.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 24. Mr. FRANKEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   ACCELERATING GENERIC DRUG COMPETITION.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to reducing the cost of prescription drugs, which 
     may include removing incentives to enter into pay-for-delay 
     exclusivity agreements between brand and generic 
     pharmaceutical manufacturers, by rescinding the 180-day 
     exclusivity period for generic pharmaceutical manufacturers 
     entering into a pay-for-delay agreement, by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 
     2021 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 
     2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 25. Mr. FRANKEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO UNFAIR 
                   TAX BREAKS TO DRUG COMPANIES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to the deduction for advertising and promotional 
     expenses for prescription drugs, which may include reducing 
     the cost of prescription drugs by disallowing the deduction 
     for direct-to-consumer advertising of prescription drugs, by 
     the amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2017 
     through 2021 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2017 
     through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 26. Mr. COONS (for himself and Mr. Van Hollen) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him to the concurrent resolution 
S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO REQUIRING 
                   NOTICE BY THE PRESIDENT REGARDING CUTS IN 
                   BENEFITS, LOWER QUALITY INSURANCE, OR 
                   ELIMINATION OF INSURANCE AS A RESULT OF 
                   REPEALING THE PATIENT PROTECTION AND AFFORDABLE 
                   CARE ACT.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to requiring the President to notify any individual 
     or family who will receive a cut in benefits, receive lower 
     quality insurance, or have their insurance eliminated as a 
     result of any repeal of all or part of the Patient Protection 
     and Affordable Care Act (Public Law 111-148; 124 Stat. 119), 
     or an amendment made by that Act, by the amounts provided in 
     such legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 2021 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 27. Mr. COONS (for himself, Mr. Carper, and Mr. Van Hollen) 
submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him to the concurrent 
resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST SHIFTING THE COSTS OF 
                   TREATING THE NEWLY UNINSURED TO WORKING 
                   AMERICANS WITH EMPLOYER-SPONSORED COVERAGE.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     result in increases in premiums, deductibles, copayments, or 
     other out-of-pocket costs for working Americans with 
     employer-based health insurance coverage compared to the 
     premium and out-of-pocket costs working Americans and their 
     employers would have paid, as projected in the most recent 
     Congressional Budget Office baseline during the period of 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2026, as determined by the 
     Congressional Budget Office.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 28. Mr. COONS (for himself, Mr. Casey, Mr. Brown, Ms. Klobuchar, 
Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. Van Hollen, Ms. Baldwin, Mrs. Feinstein, Ms. 
Stabenow, Ms. Duckworth, and Mr. King) submitted an amendment intended 
to be proposed by him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, 
setting forth the congressional budget for the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the 
table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD 
                   REDUCE HEALTH CARE BENEFITS AND CONSUMER 
                   PROTECTIONS FOR INDIVIDUALS WHO LOST A JOB, 
                   WAGES, OR BENEFITS DUE TO OUTSOURCING, TRADE 
                   DEALS, AUTOMATION, OR OTHER TYPES OF ECONOMIC 
                   DISRUPTION.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     reduce the health care benefits and consumer protections 
     provided through the Patient Protection and Affordable Care 
     Act (Public Law 111-148) for individuals (and their families) 
     who lost a job, wages, or benefits due to outsourcing, trade 
     deals, automation, or other types of economic disruption, 
     unless legislation is enacted to provide comparable benefits 
     and protections for such individuals and their families.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 29. Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Ms. Hirono, and Mr. Booker) submitted 
an amendment intended to be proposed by him to the concurrent 
resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST REDUCING ACCESS TO, OR 
                   AFFORDABILITY OF, HEALTHCARE SERVICES FOR 
                   MINORITY AND DISENFRANCHISED POPULATIONS OF THE 
                   UNITED STATES.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     reduce access to, or affordability of, healthcare services 
     for minority and disenfranchised populations of the United 
     States, including American Indians and Alaskan Natives, Asian 
     Americans, African Americans, Latino Americans, and Native 
     Hawaiians or other Pacific Islanders, by reversing the 
     significant gains in access to and affordability of 
     healthcare services made by the Affordable Care Act, 
     including--
       (1) the expansion of Medicaid coverage to low-income 
     Americans with incomes up to 138 percent of the Federal 
     poverty level in the States that have implemented the 
     Medicaid expansion, benefitting 51 percent of American 
     Indians and Alaska Natives, 32 percent of African Americans, 
     26 percent of Asian Americans, and 25 percent of Latino 
     Americans; and
       (2) the establishment of the cost-sharing reduction tax 
     credits, allowing 19 percent of American Indians and Alaska 
     Natives, 23 percent of African Americans, 18 percent of Asian 
     Americans, and 16 percent of Latino Americans to become newly 
     eligible for essential healthcare coverage.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members

[[Page S158]]

     of the Senate, duly chosen and sworn, shall be required to 
     sustain an appeal of the ruling of the Chair on a point of 
     order raised under subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 30. Mr. CARDIN (for himself and Ms. Stabenow) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him to the concurrent resolution 
S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD 
                   REDUCE ACCESS TO MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES AND 
                   PROTECTIONS, WORSENING THE MENTAL HEALTH 
                   CRISIS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     eliminate or reduce access to mental health services by 
     repealing the mental health protections applied by the 
     Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act to Medicaid 
     alternative benefit plans.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 31. Mr. CARDIN (for himself and Ms. Stabenow) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him to the concurrent resolution 
S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD 
                   ELIMINATE OR LIMIT ACCESS TO PEDIATRIC DENTAL 
                   CARE AND PROTECTIONS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     eliminate, limit access to, or reduce affordability of 
     pediatric dental services by repealing all or parts of the 
     Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Public Law 111-
     148), block granting the Medicaid program or imposing a per 
     capita limit on Federal funding for State Medicaid programs, 
     or otherwise negatively impacting children's access to 
     coverage and services for pediatric dental care.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 32. Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Whitehouse, 
and Ms. Hassan) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by her 
to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   IMPORTATION OF PRESCRIPTION DRUGS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to requiring the Secretary of Health and Human 
     Service to promulgate regulations permitting American 
     consumers to legally and safely import into the United States 
     from approved Canadian pharmacies prescription drugs for 
     personal use by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2021 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 33. Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Ms. Hassan, and Mr. Van Hollen) 
submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by her to the concurrent 
resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PRESCRIPTION DRUGS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to eliminating anticompetitive pay-for-delay patent 
     settlements between branded drug and generic drug 
     manufacturers that delay competition and increase 
     prescription drug costs by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 2021 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 34. Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself, Mr. Van Hollen, and Ms. Stabenow) 
submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by her to the concurrent 
resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD 
                   REDUCE FUNDING FOR DIABETES RESEARCH, 
                   TREATMENT, AND PREVENTION.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that 
     reduce funding for diabetes research, treatment, and 
     prevention.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 35. Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself, Mr. Coons, Mr. Van Hollen, and Mr. 
Booker) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by her to the 
concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional 
budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and 
setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 
through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST WEAKENING OR ELIMINATING THE 
                   SMALL EMPLOYER HEALTH INSURANCE CREDIT.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that 
     weakens or eliminates the tax credit to help small businesses 
     purchase health insurance under section 45R of the Internal 
     Revenue Code of 1986.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 36. Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself, Mr. Van Hollen, and Mr. Blumenthal) 
submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by her to the concurrent 
resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:
       (a) Point of Order Against Legislation That Prohibits the 
     Use of Foreign Aid for Abortion Services in the Case of Rape, 
     Incest, or Danger to the Life of a Pregnant Woman.--It shall 
     not be in order in the Senate to consider any bill, joint 
     resolution, motion, amendment, amendment between the Houses, 
     or conference report that interprets section 104(f)(1) of the 
     Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151b(f)(1); 
     commonly referred to as the ``Helms amendment'') as 
     prohibiting recipients of United States humanitarian aid from 
     using such funding for abortion services in the case of rape, 
     incest, or danger to the life of a pregnant woman.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 37. Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself, Mr. Van Hollen, Ms. Stabenow, and

[[Page S159]]

Mr. Blumenthal) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by her 
to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD LIMIT 
                   CONTRACEPTION COVERAGE UNDER THE TRICARE 
                   PROGRAM.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     limit contraception coverage under the TRICARE program under 
     chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code, including long-
     acting reversible contraceptives and emergency contraception, 
     contraception education and counseling, and providing 
     emergency contraception for all sexual assault survivor 
     servicewomen at all military treatment facilities.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 38. Mr. FLAKE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO HIRING 
                   ADDITIONAL VETERANS JUSTICE OUTREACH 
                   SPECIALISTS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to requiring or authorizing the Secretary of 
     Veterans Affairs to hire additional Veterans Justice Outreach 
     Specialists to provide treatment court services to justice-
     involved veterans, by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 2021 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 39. Mr. FLAKE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3__. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   ELIMINATING PREVAILING WAGE MANDATES AND 
                   REQUIREMENTS FOR FEDERALLY FUNDED 
                   INFRASTRUCTURE CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to eliminating prevailing wage mandates and 
     requirements under subchapter IV of chapter 31 of title 40, 
     United States Code, for federally-funded infrastructure 
     construction projects by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 2021 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 40. Mr. FLAKE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO WESTERN 
                   AREA POWER ADMINISTRATION RATEPAYER 
                   TRANSPARENCY AND RESPONSIVENESS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to the establishment and implementation of a program 
     to reduce unobligated balances in the Western Area Power 
     Administration and to provide for transparency and 
     responsiveness with respect to customers for power and 
     transmission service from the Western Area Power 
     Administration by the amounts provided in such legislation 
     for those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2021 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 41. Mr. FLAKE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO EXPANDING 
                   HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNTS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to expanding health savings accounts, which may 
     include the use of such accounts in connection with the 
     replacement of policies enacted by the Patient Protection and 
     Affordable Care Act, by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 2021 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 42. Mr. FLAKE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO DELAYING 
                   THE ENFORCEMENT OF THE 2015 OZONE STANDARDS AND 
                   REQUESTING A NEW RULEMAKING.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to delaying the enforcement of the final rule 
     entitled ``National Ambient Air Quality Standards for Ozone'' 
     (80 Fed. Reg. 65292 (October 26, 2015)) until January 1, 
     2025, and requesting a new rulemaking to implement national 
     primary and secondary ambient air quality standards for ozone 
     by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2017 through 2021 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 43. Mr. FLAKE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO IMPROVING 
                   FOREST HEALTH.

       (a) In General.--The Chairman of the Committee on the 
     Budget of the Senate may revise the allocations of a 
     committee or committees, aggregates, and other appropriate 
     levels in this resolution for one or more bills, joint 
     resolutions, amendments, amendments between the Houses, 
     motions, or conference reports relating to the forest health 
     improvements described in subsection (b) by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 
     2021 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 
     2026.
       (b) Forest Health Improvements Described.--The forest 
     health improvements referred to in subsection (a) are any of 
     the following:
       (1) Increasing timber production from Federal land and 
     providing bridge funding to counties and other units of local 
     government until timber production levels increase.
       (2) Decreasing forest hazardous fuel loads.
       (3) Improving stewardship contracting.
       (4) Reforming the process of budgeting for wildfire 
     suppression operations.

[[Page S160]]

  

                                 ______
                                 
  SA 44. Mr. FLAKE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO DROUGHT 
                   PREVENTION.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to updating flood control operations, water 
     conservation in the Colorado River Basin, invasive riparian 
     species control, assisting the States in carrying out drought 
     prevention plans, watershed protection programs, or the 
     authority of the Secretary of the Interior to designate funds 
     for rural water projects and Indian irrigation and water 
     settlement projects by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 2021 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 45. Mr. FLAKE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PROHIBITING THE SECRETARY OF VETERANS AFFAIRS 
                   FROM EMPLOYING FELONS AND MEDICAL PERSONNEL 
                   WITH REVOKED OR SUSPENDED LICENSES OR 
                   CREDENTIALS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to prohibiting the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
     from employing individuals who have been convicted of a 
     felony and medical personnel who have ever had their medical 
     licenses or credentials revoked or suspended, by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 
     2021 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 
     2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 46. Mr. FLAKE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO BRINGING 
                   ADDITIONAL INDEPENDENT OVERSIGHT TO U.S. 
                   CUSTOMS AND BORDER PROTECTION POLYGRAPH EXAMS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to bringing additional independent oversight to U.S. 
     Customs and Border Protection polygraph exams, by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 
     2021 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 
     2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 47. Mr. FLAKE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST EARMARKS.

       (a) In General.--When the Senate is considering a bill, 
     joint resolution, motion, amendment, amendment between the 
     Houses, or conference report, if a point of order is made by 
     a Senator against an earmark, and the point of order is 
     sustained by the Chair, that earmark shall be stricken from 
     the measure and may not be offered as an amendment from the 
     floor.
       (b) Form of the Point of Order.--A point of order under 
     subsection (a) may be raised by a Senator as provided in 
     section 313(e) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 
     U.S.C. 644(e)).
       (c) Conference Reports.--When the Senate is considering a 
     conference report on, or an amendment between the Houses in 
     relation to, a bill or joint resolution, upon a point of 
     order being made by any Senator pursuant to subsection (a), 
     and such point of order being sustained, such material 
     contained in such conference report or House amendment shall 
     be stricken, and the Senate shall proceed to consider the 
     question of whether the Senate shall recede from its 
     amendment and concur with a further amendment, or concur in 
     the House amendment with a further amendment, as the case may 
     be, which further amendment shall consist of only that 
     portion of the conference report or House amendment, as the 
     case may be, not so stricken. Any such motion in the Senate 
     shall be debatable. In any case in which such point of order 
     is sustained against a conference report (or Senate amendment 
     derived from such conference report by operation of this 
     subsection), no further amendment shall be in order.
       (d) Supermajority Waiver and Appeal.--In the Senate, this 
     section may be waived or suspended only by an affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members, duly chose and sworn. An 
     affirmative vote of three-fifths of Members of the Senate, 
     duly chosen and sworn shall be required to sustain an appeal 
     of the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     this section.
       (e) Definition.--In this section, the term ``earmark'' 
     means--
       (1) a congressionally directed spending item, as defined in 
     rule XLIV of the Standing Rules of the Senate; and
       (2) a congressional earmark, as defined in rule XXI of the 
     Rules of the House of Representatives.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 48. Mr. WHITEHOUSE (for himself and Mr. Brown) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him to the concurrent resolution 
S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO ACCESS TO 
                   MEDICARE FOR ALL AMERICANS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to providing all Americans, regardless of age, the 
     ability to buy into the Medicare program to secure quality, 
     affordable health insurance coverage by the amounts provided 
     in such legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 2021 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 49. Mr. WHITEHOUSE (for himself, Mr. Coons, and Ms. Klobuchar) 
submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him to the concurrent 
resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   ADDRESSING THE PRESCRIPTION OPIOID ABUSE AND 
                   HEROIN CRISIS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to fully funding all programs authorized by the 
     Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016 (Public Law 
     114-198) by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2021 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 50. Mr. WHITEHOUSE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
by him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

[[Page S161]]

  


     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PERMANENTLY EXTENDING THE ENHANCED FEDERAL 
                   MATCHING RATE FOR MEDICAID EXPANSION.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to permanently extending the 100 percent Federal 
     medical assistance percentage to State Medicaid programs to 
     maintain coverage expansion by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 2021 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 51. Mr. WHITEHOUSE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
by him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   CONTINUING STATE OPERATED HEALTH INSURANCE 
                   EXCHANGES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to allowing State-operated exchanges to continue and 
     maintaining advance premium tax credits and cost-sharing 
     reductions at current levels for eligible individuals in 
     those States by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2021 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 52. Mr. FLAKE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PROTECTIONS FOR THE ELDERLY AND VULNERABLE.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to protections for the elderly and vulnerable, which 
     may include strengthening Social Security and Medicare, 
     improving Medicaid, housing reform, and returning regulation 
     of health insurance markets to the States, by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 
     2021 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 
     2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 53. Mr. FRANKEN (for himself and Mr. Van Hollen) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him to the concurrent resolution 
S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD DRIVE 
                   UP HEALTH INSURANCE COMPANY PROFITS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     enable health plans to use less than 80 percent of premium 
     income to pay for claims and quality improvement measures.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 54. Mr. FRANKEN (for himself, Ms. Heitkamp, and Mr. Van Hollen) 
submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him to the concurrent 
resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER TO PROTECT THE RURAL HEALTH 
                   WORKFORCE.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report if the 
     Congressional Budget Office has determined that such 
     legislation would--
       (1) reduce the number of doctors, nurses, and health care 
     providers in rural communities;
       (2) reduce financial or other incentives for such providers 
     to practice in rural communities, including programs that 
     provide loans, loan repayment, scholarships, or training, 
     including the National Health Service Corps funding 
     established under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care 
     Act (Public Law 111-148); or
       (3) otherwise undermine the support for the health care 
     workforce in rural communities as outlined by title V of the 
     Patient Protection Affordable Care Act.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 55. Mr. BOOKER (for himself, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. Brown, Mrs. Murray, 
Mr. Van Hollen, and Ms. Warren) submitted an amendment intended to be 
proposed by him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting 
forth the congressional budget for the United States Government for 
fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for 
fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; 
as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   ENCOURAGING PRIMARY HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS TO 
                   PARTICIPATE IN THE MEDICAID PROGRAM.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to encouraging primary health care providers, 
     including board-certified family physicians, to participate 
     in the Medicaid program and provide important primary care 
     services to beneficiaries, through measures such as 
     reinstating the enhanced matching rate for primary care 
     services, by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2021 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2026.

                          ____________________



