

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 19 (Friday, February 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 19 (Friday, February 3, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H962-H963]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     IN APPRECIATION OF GARY ANDRES

  (Mr. WALDEN asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.)
  Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Speaker, as the new chairman of the Energy and 
Commerce Committee, I, too, want to join in showing my appreciation and 
affection for Gary. He has given our committee and, dare I say, our 
country incredible service for many years.
  I am grateful for his friendship, I am grateful for his guidance, his 
counsel and, as we have gone through this transition, his advice, a 
steady hand, incredible intellect, a curiosity about how to get policy 
done.

[[Page H963]]

  From his start on Capitol Hill working in both Bush administrations 
and then leading the Energy and Commerce Committee staff effort, he has 
this passion for public service. He is relentless in his devotion to 
serving the American people and to driving the committee over time and 
really putting together a great team.
  As you have heard, because of his leadership, the committee 
successfully shepherded through dozens of pieces of really important 
bipartisan legislation for the American people that have made their 
lives better, such as the 21st Century Cures Act, modernizing our 
chemical safety laws, improving pipeline safety, among many others.
  We are fortunate to have had such a gifted adviser, exceptional 
leader, tireless advocate at the helm of this committee staff for the 
last 6 years.
  It has been a real honor, Gary, to work with you. I wish you, Sue, 
and your whole family the very best in the years ahead. You have given 
this country incredible service, and we appreciate you for that.
  God bless you and Godspeed.

                          ____________________



