

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H454]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   SUPPORTING BETSYDeVOS' NOMINATION

  (Mr. BISHOP of Michigan asked and was given permission to address the 
House for 1 minute and to revise and extend hisremarks.)
  Mr. BISHOP of Michigan. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support 
of a true leader and friend, Betsy DeVos, for thenomination of 
Secretary of Education.
  By far and away, Betsy DeVos is the ideal candidate to guide our 
Nation's education policies. For three decades, she hasbeen focused on 
making sure all of our Nation's children have access to quality 
education, particularly for thedisenfranchised and those in real need.
  The Associated Press recently ran a piece highlighting West Michigan 
Aviation Academy and the tremendous difference theschool is making in 
the lives of the children in Michigan. Betsy DeVos had her hand in that 
process, as she has in so many ofthe other schools across western 
Michigan.
  Mr. Speaker, being from Michigan myself, I have seen firsthand what 
Betsy DeVos has done for education in Michigan. Sheunderstands the 
important role of public schools in the K-12 system, but also believes 
that competition, school choice, andparental control will help drive 
success in all schools to ensure that all children are receiving the 
best possible education,no matter their circumstances.
  I hope to work with my friends on the other side of the Capitol. And 
I hope, during this time before the Senate committeeconsiders Ms. 
DeVos' nomination, that the rest of the Nation will hear of the great 
things that Betsy DeVos has done and see howqualified she is for this 
job.

                          ____________________



