

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 45 (Wednesday, March 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 45 (Wednesday, March 15, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2073]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         THE TRUTH MUST BE TOLD

  (Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute and to revise and extend her remarks.)
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, let me join my colleagues, first of 
all, and say that this country is made up of somebody else's babies; 
and I am very proud to be an American who sees the great talent of 
these babies who have become great leaders, such as teachers, 
scientists, doctors, lawyers, and members who do public service. Thank 
you to somebody else's babies.
  Let me also congratulate the district court in Hawaii, which has just 
rendered a decision to block the President's Muslim ban again. Thank 
you for that wise and deliberative decision.
  I rise today in particular to really ask and wonder where we are in 
this country that a President of the United States can, first, tweet 
out that a former President committed a criminal felony: wiretapping.
  In the last 48 hours, there is mish-mash of information coming from 
the press secretary or the director of communications and the 
President: Oh, maybe it was not wiretapping by the President of the 
United States formally, but it is generally wiretapping.
  Mr. President, let me be very clear: the words of the Commander in 
Chief are known to carry great weight. It is the American people that 
have to trust and believe and be commanded and led.
  I am saddened by the state that we are in right now. I am saddened 
that there is one position one day and another position another day. As 
a senior member of the Judiciary Committee, we cannot tolerate that 
kind of mismatched conversation. The truth must be told. The American 
people must know it, Members of Congress must know it. I believe 
committees should be investigating if there was a wiretap or not and if 
there was an action by the former President. If not, tell the truth.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Fitzpatrick). The Chair would remind 
Members to direct their remarks to the Chair.

                          ____________________



