

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 35 (Tuesday, February 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 35 (Tuesday, February 28, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H1363]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




             PRESIDENT TRUMP NEEDS TO WORK WITH ALL PEOPLE

  (Mr. ENGEL asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I have long prided myself on working across 
the aisle to get things done for my constituents and all the American 
people. That is what the American people want: a government that 
grapples with tough issues in a constructive way.
  Unfortunately, since January 20, the new administration has shown no 
interest in working with the Congress on both sides to tackle problems, 
including Russia's unlawful interference in last year's election. That 
is why I decided not to stand on the aisle in the House Chamber to 
shake the President's hand during the joint session of Congress, as I 
have done in the past through Democratic and Republican administrations 
alike. This will be the first time during my 29 years in this House I 
have made this decision.
  I have deep respect for the Presidency, and I will attend the joint 
session, but that respect between the branches must be mutual. The 
President has attacked the free press by calling it the enemy of the 
people. He has rejected America's traditional role welcoming refugees 
who have helped to make our country great. He has cozied up to Vladimir 
Putin, the strongman who attacks our democracy. He has moved to gut the 
Affordable Care Act. He has looked the other way when threats against 
the Jewish community have increased in the recent year.
  This isn't part of our normal political discourse. This goes beyond 
ideological and political differences. The President needs to work with 
all people. Therefore, I will listen to what he has to say today, but I 
will not greet him and shake his hand.

                          ____________________



