

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 56 (Thursday, March 30, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 56 (Thursday, March 30, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2150]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               REMEMBERING COLONEL EDWIN DON STRICKFADEN

 Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, my colleague Senator Mike Crapo 
joins me today in honoring the life of Colonel Edwin Don Strickfaden, 
who dedicated 35 years to protecting the citizens of Idaho through his 
service in Idaho law enforcement.
  Colonel Strickfaden led the Idaho State Police, ISP, with 
distinction, serving as director when two Idaho law enforcement 
agencies were combined to form one ISP and leading the force to 
accomplish many law enforcement successes furthering the security of 
our communities. Current Idaho State Police director Colonel Ralph 
Powell recognized Colonel Strickfaden as a ``champion for all law 
enforcement throughout the state,'' and a ``charismatic leader'' who 
``worked tirelessly to keep us safe.'' Colonel Strickfaden--Ed to most 
of us--joined Idaho law enforcement in 1967 after serving 4 years in 
the U.S. Air Force. A native Idahoan, Ed was born on August 3, 1945, to 
Don and Ruth Strickfaden in Nez Perce, ID, and served many communities 
throughout Idaho before retiring in 2002 making a home with his wife, 
Barbara, in Salmon, ID. Barbara has worked for my Gubernatorial and 
U.S. Senate offices, which has given us more opportunities to interact 
with this remarkable Idahoan.
  Colonel Strickfaden was known for his thoughtful, reasoned, and 
inspiring leadership. Although this example of his bravery and devotion 
to helping others was already highlighted in a 2003 Congressional 
Record statement, it is worthy of repeating as it is emblematic of how 
he served. Colonel Strickfaden was honored by then-Governor Cecil 
Andrus for diving into the icy December waters of the Clearwater River 
to rescue a woman from a submerged vehicle. His sense of duty and clear 
empathy for the people he served was an outstanding example to many.
  Colonel Strickfaden made an extraordinary difference in the lives of 
Idahoans he served and the many who knew him. We thank him for his 
outstanding service as we join his family, including Barbara and their 
beloved children, grandchildren, and great-grandchild and many friends 
in mourning his passing and honoring his loving legacy.

                          ____________________



