

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 51 (Thursday, March 23, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 51 (Thursday, March 23, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2351-H2352]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




  SERGEANT FIRST CLASS CHRISTOPHER ROBINSON WAS TRULY THE BEST OF THE 
                                  BEST

  (Mr. KELLY of Mississippi asked and was given permission to address 
the House for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. KELLY of Mississippi. Mr. Speaker, I am humbled today to rise in 
memory of Army Sergeant First Class Christopher Lee Robinson. He paid 
the ultimate sacrifice while defending our Nation on March 25, 2006, 
during Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan.
  Sergeant Robinson was wounded during an ambush in Helmand province, 
Afghanistan, while conducting joint and multinational combat 
operations. Master Sergeant Reese Robbins, his friend, was also wounded 
during the attack. At the time of his death, Sergeant Robinson was the 
first Mississippi National Guard soldier to die in Afghanistan.
  Sergeant Robinson was assigned to the 2nd Battalion, 20th Special 
Forces Group, Mississippi Army National Guard in Jackson, Mississippi. 
He followed in the footsteps of his father, George Robinson, who also 
served in the Army.
  Retired Sergeant Major Mike Patterson served with Sergeant Robinson 
throughout most of his military career. Sergeant Major Patterson said 
Sergeant Robinson consistently displayed

[[Page H2352]]

bravery by volunteering for hard deployments and dangerous missions. He 
also says Sergeant Robinson had the ability to handle combat in a very 
deliberate way, yet remain compassionate for people and the unintended 
consequences that war thrusts upon human beings.
  He is survived by his wife, Tamara, and their children, Savannah and 
Patrick. Sergeant Robinson devoted his life to the safety of our 
Nation. He will always be remembered for his service and deep love for 
friends and family and this country.
  The first sentence of the NCO creed states: ``No one is more 
professional than I.'' The level of competence and professionalism that 
Sergeant Robinson maintained throughout his life, in and out of 
uniform, shows that he lived by that creed every day of his life.
  As a Special Forces Green Beret soldier, Sergeant First Class 
Robinson was truly the best of the best.

                          ____________________



