

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 45 (Wednesday, March 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 45 (Wednesday, March 15, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2068-H2071]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




           RAISING A QUESTION OF THE PRIVILEGES OF THE HOUSE

  Mr. CROWLEY. Pursuant to clause 2(a)(1) of rule IX, I rise to give 
notice of my intent to raise a question of the privileges of the House.
  The form of the resolution is as follows:
  Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that the 
President shall immediately disclose his tax return information to 
Congress.
  Mr. Speaker, it is worth expressing, once again.
  Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives, the President 
shall immediately disclose his tax return information to Congress and 
the American people.
  I want to thank Mr. Pascrell from the Ways and Means Committee for 
leading this issue in that committee and here on the floor, as well as 
Anna Eshoo from the Energy and Commerce Committee, and more to come in 
the weeks to come.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman from New York is recognized 
only to give notice.
  Mr. CROWLEY. Mr. Speaker, the form of the remainder of the resolution 
is as follows:
  Whereas, in the United States' system of checks and balances, 
Congress has a responsibility to hold the executive branch of 
government to the highest standard of transparency to ensure the public 
interest is placed first;
  Whereas, according to the Tax History Project, every President after 
Richard Nixon has disclosed their tax return information to the public;
  Whereas, tax returns provide an important baseline disclosure because 
they contain highly instructive information including whether the 
candidate paid taxes, what they own, what they have borrowed and from 
whom, whether they have made any charitable donations, and whether they 
have taken advantage of tax loopholes;
  Whereas, disclosure of the President's tax returns could help those 
investigating Russian influence in the 2016 election understand the 
President's financial ties to the Russian Federation and Russian 
citizens, including debts owed, and whether he shares any partnership 
interests, equity interests, joint ventures, or licensing agreements 
with Russia or Russians;
  Whereas, it has been reported that President Trump's close senior 
advisers, including Carter Page, Paul Manafort, Roger Stone, and 
General Michael Flynn, have been under investigation by the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation for their ties to the Russian Federation;
  Whereas, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov told 
Interfax, a Russian media outlet, on November 10, 2016, that ``there 
were contacts'' with Donald Trump's 2016 campaign, and it has been 
reported that members of President Trump's inner circle were in contact 
with senior Russian officials throughout the 2016 campaign;
  Whereas, according to his 2016 candidate filing with the Federal 
Election Commission, the President has 564 financial positions in 
companies located in the United States and around the world;
  Whereas, against the advice of ethics attorneys and the Office of 
Government Ethics, the President has refused to divest his ownership 
stake in his businesses;
  Whereas, the Director of the nonpartisan Office of Government Ethics 
said that the President's plan to transfer his business holdings to a 
trust managed by family members is ``meaningless'' and ``does not meet 
the standards that . . . every President in the past four decades has 
met'';
  Whereas, the the Emoluments Clause was included in the U.S. 
Constitution for the express purpose of preventing federal officials 
from accepting any ``present, Emolument, Office, or Title . . . from 
any King, Prince, or foreign state'';
  Whereas, the Trump International Hotel in Washington, D.C., has hired 
a ``director of diplomatic sales'' to generate high-priced business 
among foreign leaders and diplomatic delegations;
  Whereas, the Trump International Hotel could receive up to $60,000 
from the Kuwaiti government for a party it held at the hotel on 
February 22, 2017;
  Whereas, the President used a legally dubious tax maneuver in 1995 
that could have allowed him to avoid paying federal taxes for 18 years;
  Whereas, the public still does not have a thorough understanding of 
the influences and conflicts President Trump has due to his various 
foreign and domestic business interests;
  Whereas, on January 30, 2017, President Trump publicly issued an 
executive order announcing that pipeline makers in the U.S. must use 
American-made steel in their projects;
  Whereas, on March 3, 2017, President Trump quietly reversed himself, 
issuing an order allowing the steel for the Keystone pipeline to be 
imported from foreign countries;
  Whereas, without direct knowledge on the conflicts this President has 
due to his business interests, he could be advancing policies that 
create an uneven playing field for working Americans;
  Whereas, the public should be able to examine his business interests, 
relationships, and conflicts to ensure that all policies put forward by 
the Trump administration solely benefit the American public and not his 
corporate business partners;
  Whereas, the most signed petition on the White House website calls 
for the release of the President's tax return information to verify 
compliance with the Emoluments Clause, with 1,082,000 signatures as of 
the date of this resolution;
  Whereas, the Chairmen of the Ways and Means Committee, Joint 
Committee on Taxation, and Senate Finance Committee have the authority 
to request the President's tax returns under Section 6103 of the tax 
code;
  Whereas, the Joint Committee on Taxation reviewed the tax returns of 
President Richard Nixon in 1974 and made the information public;
  Whereas, the Ways and Means Committee used IRC 6103 authority in 2014 
to make public the confidential tax information of 51 taxpayers;
  Whereas, the American people have the right to know whether or not 
their President is operating under conflicts of interest related to 
international affairs, tax reform, government contracts, or otherwise:
  Now, therefore, be it resolved, that the House of Representatives 
shall:

[[Page H2069]]

  One, immediately request the tax return information of Donald J. 
Trump for tax years 2006 through 2015 for review in closed executive 
session by the Committee on Ways and Means, as provided under Section 
6103 of the Internal Revenue Code, and vote to report the information 
therein to the full House of Representatives;
  Two, support transparency in government and the longstanding 
tradition of Presidents and Presidential candidates disclosing their 
tax returns.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair will now recognize the gentleman 
from New York to offer the resolution just noticed.
  Does the gentleman offer the resolution?
  Mr. CROWLEY. Mr. Speaker, I offer my resolution.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Clerk will report the resolution.
  The Clerk read as follows:

                               Resolution

       Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that 
     the President shall immediately disclose his tax return 
     information to Congress and the American people.
       Whereas, in the United States' system of checks and 
     balances, Congress has a responsibility to hold the Executive 
     Branch of government to the highest standard of transparency 
     to ensure the public interest is placed first;
       Whereas, according to the Tax History Project, every 
     President after Richard Nixon has disclosed their tax return 
     information to the public;
       Whereas, tax returns provide an important baseline 
     disclosure because they contain highly instructive 
     information including whether the candidate paid taxes, what 
     they own, what they have borrowed and from whom, whether they 
     have made any charitable donations, and whether they have 
     taken advantage of tax loopholes;
       Whereas, disclosure of the President's tax returns could 
     help those investigating Russian influence in the 2016 
     election, understand the President's financial ties to the 
     Russian Federation and Russian citizens, including debts 
     owed, and whether he shares any partnership interests, equity 
     interests, joint ventures or licensing agreements with Russia 
     or Russians;
       Whereas, it has been reported that President Trump's close 
     senior advisers, including Carter Page, Paul Manafort, Roger 
     Stone, and General Michael Flynn, have been under 
     investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation for 
     their ties to the Russian Federation;
       Whereas, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov 
     told Intertfax, a Russian media outlet, on November 10, 2016 
     that ``there were contacts'' with Donald Trump's 2016 
     campaign, and it has been reported that members of President 
     Trump's inner circle were in contact with senior Russian 
     officials throughout the 2016 campaign;
       Whereas, according to his 2016 candidate filing with the 
     Federal Election Commission, the President has 564 financial 
     positions in companies located in the United States and 
     around the world;
       Whereas, against the advice of ethics attorneys and the 
     Office of Government Ethics, the President has refused to 
     divest his ownership stake in his businesses;
       Whereas, the director of the nonpartisan Office of 
     Government Ethics said that the President's plan to transfer 
     his business holdings to a trust managed by family members is 
     ``meaningless'' and ``does not meet the standards that . . . 
     every president in the past four decades has met'';
       Whereas, the Emoluments Clause was included in the U.S. 
     Constitution for the express purpose of preventing federal 
     officials from accepting any ``present, Emolument, Office, or 
     Title . . . from any King, Prince, or foreign state'';
       Whereas, the Trump International Hotel in Washington, D.C. 
     has hired a ``director of diplomatic sales'' to generate 
     high-priced business among foreign leaders and diplomatic 
     delegations;
       Whereas, the Trump International Hotel could receive up to 
     $60,000 from the Kuwaiti government for a party it held at 
     the hotel on February 22, 2017;
       Whereas, the President used a legally dubious tax maneuver 
     in 1995 that could have allowed him to avoid paying federal 
     taxes for 18 years;
       Whereas the public still does not have a thorough 
     understanding of the influences and conflicts President Trump 
     has due to his various foreign and domestic business 
     interests;
       Whereas on January 30, 2017 President Trump publicly issued 
     an executive order announcing that pipeline makers in the US 
     must use American-made steel in their projects;
       Whereas on March 3, 2017 President Trump quietly reversed 
     himself, issuing an order allowing the steel for the Keystone 
     Pipeline to be imported from foreign countries;
       Whereas without direct knowledge on the conflicts this 
     President has due to his business interests, he could be 
     advancing policies that create an uneven playing field for 
     working Americans;
       Whereas the public should be able to examine his business 
     interests, relationships, and conflicts to ensure that all 
     policies put forward by the Trump Administration solely 
     benefit the American public and not his corporate business 
     partners;
       Whereas, the most signed petition on the White House 
     website calls for the release of the President's tax return 
     information to verify compliance with the Emoluments Clause, 
     with 1 million, 82 thousand signatures as of the date of this 
     resolution;
       Whereas, the Chairmen of the Ways and Means Committee, 
     Joint Committee on Taxation, and Senate Finance Committee 
     have the authority to request the President's tax returns 
     under Section 6103 of the tax code;
       Whereas, the Joint Committee on Taxation reviewed the tax 
     returns of President Richard Nixon in 1974 and made the 
     information public;
       Whereas, the Ways and Means Committee used IRC 6103 
     authority in 2014 to make public the confidential tax 
     information of 51 taxpayers;
       Whereas, the American people have the right to know whether 
     or not their President is operating under conflicts of 
     interest related to international affairs, tax reform, 
     government contracts, or otherwise: Now, therefore, be it:
       Resolved, That the House of Representatives shall--
       1. Immediately request the tax return information of Donald 
     J. Trump for tax years 2006 through 2015 for review in closed 
     executive session by the Committee on Ways and Means, as 
     provided under Section 6103 of the Internal Revenue Code, and 
     vote to report the information therein to the full House of 
     Representatives
       2. Support transparency in government and the longstanding 
     tradition of Presidents and Presidential candidates 
     disclosing their tax returns.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Does the gentleman from New York wish to 
present argument on the parliamentary question whether the resolution 
presents a question of the privileges of the House?
  Mr. CROWLEY. Yes, Mr. Speaker, I do.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman from New York is recognized.
  Mr. CROWLEY. Mr. Speaker, under rule IX, clause 1, questions of the 
privileges of the House are ``those affecting the rights of the House 
collectively, its safety, dignity, and the integrity of its 
proceedings.''
  I would argue there is nothing more of a threat to the integrity of 
the House of Representatives than ignoring our duty to provide a check 
and balance, as our Founders expected of us, of the executive branch.
  To restore the dignity of the House, we must use our authority to 
request President Trump's tax returns and give the American people the 
transparency that they deserve.
  The American people know full well the scope of the President's 
financial background, as related by television and the media; but they 
don't know the details.
  Article I, section 9 of the Constitution includes a clause 
prohibiting foreign emoluments to the President. The Office of 
Government Ethics has warned us about the President's decision not to 
divest or set up a blind trust, and there is a need to fully understand 
the President's ties to Russia.
  Mr. Speaker, we are seeing the President saying one thing, such as 
mandating the use of American-made steel on American pipelines, then 
quietly reversing himself to allow the use of foreign-made steel on the 
Keystone Pipeline, which is being built by a Canadian company.
  The resolution I am offering can provide the transparency to help 
ease the concerns of Americans in every corner of our country. The 
Internal Revenue Code includes language laying out a path for the Ways 
and Means Committee to obtain the tax returns and review them in a 
respectful way. There is the precedent that I have stated earlier that 
provides for this to be used.
  A growing number of Members and Senators from both parties have been 
saying we should have the President's tax returns. One of those is 
Congressman Steve Knight of California who announced to his 
constituents that the President's tax returns should be made public, so 
I look forward to his support of this resolution.
  The House must demonstrate that its Members are listening to our 
constituents' concerns. The House must demonstrate that it cares about 
protecting the integrity of the House, of our government, of our 
Constitution, of our system of checks and balances. Let's shine a 
bright light on the President's conflicts together.
  We, as the elected Representatives of our constituents and the 
broader American public, can judge whether his decisions are being made 
for himself,

[[Page H2070]]

his business, or for the greater good of the American people.
  At the end of the day, if President Trump has nothing to hide, then 
he should be willing to do what every President since Richard Nixon has 
done, and that is, release his tax returns.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair would remind the gentleman from 
New York that the question is on, and his remarks must be confined to, 
the question of privilege.
  Mr. CROWLEY. Mr. Speaker, I think I have been toeing that line very 
closely.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. A little bit over it.
  Mr. CROWLEY. At the very least, even if he continues to hide behind 
the phony excuse of being under audit, he should release tax returns 
for 2016 as those are not under audit.
  Mr. Speaker, this resolution is not about partisanship. It is about 
America.
  No, you are not listening to your constituents, my colleagues. It is 
about America, my colleagues. They want to see these tax returns.
  The American people expect more from the promise than heckling back 
and forth. They expect their Representatives from both sides of the 
aisles to demand these tax returns.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman will suspend.
  The gentleman from New York must keep his remarks confined to the 
question of the privileges of the House.
  Mr. CROWLEY. I appreciate that, Mr. Speaker.
  It is about America, Mr. Speaker.
  I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. For what purpose does the gentleman from New 
Jersey seek recognition?
  Does the gentleman wish to be heard on the question of privilege and 
on the question of privilege only?
  Mr. PASCRELL. Yes, Mr. Speaker.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. That is the question before the House.
  Mr. PASCRELL. I want to thank the gentleman from New York (Mr. 
Crowley).
  Mr. Speaker, Mr. Crowley cited the very source of what our proposal 
is, and that is, section 6103, and, particularly section 6103(f), of 
the Tax Code of the United States of America, which has been part of 
the Tax Code since 1924.
  Mr. Speaker, this is a wonderful part of the Tax Code. Take my word 
for it. And it has been a wonderful part of the Tax Code since 1924.
  It is very clear the main argument against this proposal, this 
resolution, has been over the last several weeks that this is an 
administrative part of the Tax Code. I would submit to you, Mr. 
Speaker, that this is not simply arranging the deck chairs on the 
Titanic. This has to do with all of us. This has to do with what we put 
in to our tax files when we submit them to the IRS.
  There is real authority when you read this section, Mr. Speaker. I 
can assure you I will not read it. That will be for another time. But I 
can assure you it is very specific and goes beyond administrative 
authority. We are talking about apparitional authority.
  We are talking about that three different committees in the House and 
the Senate can call on anybody with due cause to have them submit their 
tax returns.
  By the way, when you look at why section 6103 was put into the Tax 
Code in 1924, as a result of one of the greatest scandals in the 20th 
century, then you understand it was not just meant as an administrative 
situation.
  Now, Mr. Speaker, we believe that it is imperative for the public to 
know and understand how such tax reform that we are about to go into 
pretty soon will benefit the President of the United States.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman's remarks must be confined to 
the question of privilege.
  Mr. PASCRELL. I am talking right to the resolution, Mr. Speaker.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman's remarks must be confined to 
the question of whether the resolution presents a privilege of the 
House.
  Mr. PASCRELL. Well, we are talking about the present President, our 
President of the United States.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is whether the resolution 
presents a question of privilege, and the gentleman must confine his 
remarks to that debate.
  Mr. PASCRELL. We are talking about, as I said----
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman has not been recognized to 
discuss the value or merit of the resolution. The gentleman has been 
recognized only to argue whether it presents a privileged question to 
the House.
  Mr. PASCRELL. I believe it is a privileged question and resolution 
that has been offered because it goes to the very integrity of the 
House of Representatives, and I am a part of the House of 
Representatives.
  Now, our President had an infamous response----
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman's remarks must be confined to 
the question of privilege.
  Mr. PASCRELL. He said, when an allegation that he had paid no taxes, 
he said----
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair is prepared to rule.
  The gentleman from New York seeks to offer a resolution as a question 
of the privileges of the House under rule IX.
  As the Chair ruled on February 27, 2017, and March 7, 2017, the 
resolution directs the Committee on Ways and Means to meet and consider 
an item of business under the procedures set forth in 26 U.S.C. 6103, 
and, therefore, does not qualify as a question of the privileges of the 
House.
  Mr. CROWLEY. Mr. Speaker, I appeal the ruling of the Chair.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is, Shall the decision of the 
Chair stand as the judgment of the House?


                            Motion to Table

  Mr. McCARTHY. Mr. Speaker, I have a motion at the desk.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Clerk will report the motion.
  The Clerk read as follows:
       Mr. McCarthy moves that the appeal be laid on the table.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion to table.
  The question was taken; and the Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it.
  Mr. CROWLEY. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, this 15-
minute vote on the motion to table will be followed by a 5-minute vote 
on suspending the rules and passing H.R. 267, if ordered.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--yeas 223, 
nays 183, answered ``present'' 1, not voting 22, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 161]

                               YEAS--223

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Bridenstine
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Chaffetz
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Costello (PA)
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSantis
     Diaz-Balart
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Garrett
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Graves (MO)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Katko
     Kelly (MS)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     LoBiondo
     Long
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     MacArthur
     Marchant
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Meehan
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Posey
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Roskam
     Ross
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Rutherford

[[Page H2071]]


     Scalise
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tiberi
     Tipton
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                               NAYS--183

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costa
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Cummings
     Davis (CA)
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty
     Evans
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Jones
     Kaptur
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sinema
     Sires
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth

                        ANSWERED ``PRESENT''--1

       
     Sanford
       

                             NOT VOTING--22

     Blackburn
     Brown (MD)
     Cicilline
     Collins (NY)
     Davis, Danny
     DesJarlais
     Fudge
     Higgins (NY)
     Kelly (PA)
     Loebsack
     Marino
     McCaul
     Payne
     Rohrabacher
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Rush
     Russell
     Slaughter
     Titus
     Trott
     Wagner
     Welch

                              {time}  1947

  So the motion to table was agreed to.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



