

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 6 (Tuesday, January 10, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 6 (Tuesday, January 10, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H239-H240]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




        HARRY DEITZ: 17 SIMPLE WAYS TO IMPROVE THE WORLD IN 2017

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Costello) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. COSTELLO of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, when we came back from 
break, starting 2017, I wanted to share some thoughts on how we can all 
improve ourselves and our country here in 2017, but last week there was 
such a flurry of activity, I didn't have the opportunity to do so.
  I came across an editorial in the Reading Eagle, a newspaper with 
circulation in my district. Harry Deitz, the editor of the Reading 
Eagle, had an editorial entitled, ``17 Simple Ways to Improve the World 
in 2017.'' I thought it was so absolutely excellent that I would like 
to share it with the American public verbatim:
  ``Imagine how much better the world could be if all of us resolved to 
make the world a better place. Imagine how much better it could be if 
just one of us did that.
  ``It really isn't difficult. We just need to make up our minds to do 
positive little things that will add up to positive big things. Often, 
they are things that don't take much time or energy. They may not cost 
anything. But the rewards--the paybacks--are immeasurable.
  ``So, in the spirit of a new year, here are 17 simple things we can 
do in 2017 to improve the world around us.
  ``1. There's an old caution sign at railroad crossings: Stop, look 
and listen. It also should apply to communication and understanding. 
Think how much better things would be if we stopped or at least slowed 
down, looked a person in the eye and really listened to what he or she 
has to say. That certainly would derail some of the anger and 
misunderstandings in the world.
  ``2. Say something positive to someone every day. You may never know 
how much a kind word or a compliment will mean to the person, but you 
will feel better after you've done it.
  ``3. Make a donation to charity. Money helps, but donations also come 
in the form of your time.
  ``4. Don't make judgments. There are people in the world who judge us 
before they know us. They judge us before they know all the facts. They 
disapprove when we have different opinions. Sometimes there isn't right 
or wrong--there is just different. Don't just talk tolerance--practice 
it.
  ``5. Say hello to a stranger. How much effort does it take? What is 
the real risk? Many of our best relationships began with a simple 
`hello.'
  ``6. Give something anonymously to someone in need. Don't look for 
recognition or appreciation. Focus on what you can do for `he' or 
`she,' instead of asking, `what's in it for me?'
  ``7. Have a conversation with a child. Not a lesson or a lecture. You 
may be surprised at how much you can learn and how much you can teach 
when you talk and listen.
  ``8. Make a call to someone you haven't spoken with in years. Better 
yet, visit that person.
  ``9. Don't wish away a single day. How often have we been anxious for 
a day to be over? We only have so many days, and we don't know how 
many. So even when things are going really badly, don't give up on that 
day. Think positive, and make every day special. And consider tomorrow 
a new opportunity to do what we weren't able to do today.
  ``10. Say you are sorry. It's never too late, and it's not as painful 
as it may seem.
  ``11. Forgiveness isn't only one of the best things you can do for 
others. It also is one of the greatest gifts you can give to yourself. 
It removes burdens. It helps you see clearly. It repairs what is 
broken. Time may reduce our pain but doesn't always remove it. 
Forgiveness will.
  ``12. Take a quiet walk. Look at the world around you. How can you 
help but marvel at God's creation when you push away all of the 
distractions in your life?
  ``13. Happiness isn't something we are given. It's something we 
choose. So choose happiness.
  ``14. Cherish your memories more than your possessions. They not only 
are more important, but they will last much longer.

[[Page H240]]

  ``15. Smile. I can't think of an expression that can have a more 
positive impact on someone else--and on yourself. It's difficult to be 
angry or cranky when you're smiling.
  ``16. Pray for peace. If you believe in prayer, you already 
understand its power. If you don't, what do you have to lose?
  ``17. Tell people you love them. It's something you can't do too 
often. It's something they will never tire of hearing.''
  Words well spoken, Harry Dietz.


                          Maternal Health Care

  Mr. COSTELLO of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 
315, the Improving Access to Maternity Care Act.

  As we look to strengthen health care, one area where we must continue 
to show leadership is in the delivery of quality and timely maternal 
and prenatal care. Certain areas of the country, though, suffer from a 
shortage of professionals to provide this essential care.
  For over 40 years, the National Health Service Corps has helped to 
place primary, dental, and mental health providers in underserved 
areas. This bill would use data collected from the National Health 
Service Corps to designate and place maternal healthcare providers in 
those areas of the country where they are most needed. This will help 
to solve the shortage of maternal healthcare professionals and ensure 
new and expecting mothers have access to the care they need.
  Mr. Speaker, the statistics don't lie: mothers without access to 
prenatal care are more likely to experience serious but avoidable 
complications during birth, which makes passage of H.R. 315, the 
Improving Access to Maternity Care Act, which I am proud to support, 
such an important bill.

                          ____________________



