

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H312]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        CREATING TECHNOLOGY JOBS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
California (Mr. Khanna) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. KHANNA. Mr. Speaker, I have the great privilege and honor of 
representing Silicon Valley in the United States Congress.We are living 
through revolutionary times. If 100 years ago we had the industrial 
revolution, today we have the softwarerevolution, and the forces of 
automation and globalization are fundamentally changing our economy.
  We first must thank the hardworking Americans who helped build this 
economy--the steelworkers and the coal miners and thosewho were 
machinists who built the economy that made us an exceptional Nation--
that were the foundation of everything that SiliconValley does today. 
We need to thank them for the extraordinary hard work and grit that 
they showed.
  We also need to recognize that our economy is changing, and not 
everyone has participated in the technology revolution. Somefolks have 
benefited, and they are creating jobs and wealth, and others have been 
left behind. We have an obligation to makesure that every American and 
their daughters and their sons get to participate in this technology 
revolution and have technologyjobs.
  Enrico Moretti, an economist at Berkeley, has shown for every one 
technology job, it creates four to five other jobs incommunities, from 
the barista to a lawyer, to a construction worker. Tech jobs have a 
larger multiplier today than manufacturingjobs had in previous eras.
  My commitment, my vision is to see how Silicon Valley can help create 
technology jobs not just in my district, but acrossAmerica. There is no 
reason that Des Moines, Iowa, and Wichita, Kansas, and Dayton, Ohio, 
cannot become centers for technologyinnovation and have extraordinary 
technology jobs.
  I look forward to working across the aisle with my Republican 
colleagues and Democratic colleagues to figure out how wecreate tech 
jobs across this Nation.

                          ____________________



