

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 25 (Monday, February 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 25 (Monday, February 13, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1128-S1129]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                       TRIBUTE TO MICHAEL ILITCH

 Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, today I wish to honor a champion 
for Detroit and for Michigan, Mike Ilitch. Everyone from Michigan knows 
his life story: the son of Macedonian immigrants, he founded Little 
Caesars Pizza, one of the largest pizza chains in the world, and 
rebuilt both the Detroit Tigers and the Detroit Red Wings into world 
class, winning franchises. He led the Red Wings to four Stanley Cups 
and brought the Tigers to the World Series twice.
  The story of Mike Ilitch is the story of never doing anything 
halfway. He embodies the American dream: he served as a marine, built a 
business empire, and had an eye for perfection that led him to 
incredible success.
  For him though, it wasn't enough to be satisfied with success in 
business or

[[Page S1129]]

sports; it was all about giving back. He said it himself: ``I was 
raised in Detroit. I came from zero. This community helped make me. 
It's nice to give something back.''
  He loved Detroit and worked to revitalize the city while maintaining 
its cultural history. His company, Olympia Entertainment, purchased the 
Fox Theater and restored it in 1988. He built Comerica Park, home to 
the Tigers. His recent $40 million donation to the Wayne State 
University School of Business will help build their state-of-the-art 
facility on Woodward Avenue, next to the new home of the Red Wings and 
the Pistons, Little Caesars Arena.
  Detroit is better off because of the work that he did. And the people 
of Detroit are better off because of his work. From his philanthropic 
organization that has given to those in need and the program he started 
through Little Caesars that helps honorably discharged veterans get 
employed, Mike Ilitch gave people a chance to succeed and to thrive.
  Mike will be sorely missed by all of us. His legacy is shared by his 
loving wife of over 61 years, Marian, and his seven children, but it is 
also shared by everyone in Michigan and all of those who love Detroit. 
Thank you.

                          ____________________



