

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 19 (Friday, February 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 19 (Friday, February 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S678]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  TRIBUTE TO REAR ADMIRAL CRAIG FALLER

  Mr. KING. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize and congratulate 
RADM Craig Faller on his outstanding service to our Nation as the 
Navy's chief of legislative affairs from June 2014 through January 
2017. During that time, he was the Navy's lead advocate on Capitol Hill 
and had the challenging job of communicating with all 535 Members of 
Congress, handling their constituent inquiries, and properly 
representing the Navy while taking into account military, political, 
and budgetary priorities.
  Admiral Faller selflessly devoted the last 2 and a half years of his 
life to ensuring our Nation's sailors were represented in Congress, and 
he excelled in that role. He established warm and lasting relationships 
with my colleagues, garnering respect and admiration in both Chambers 
of Congress and on both sides of the aisle. He worked with us to 
establish the first-ever Senate Navy Caucus and broadened the Navy's 
outreach beyond members of defense committees. His efforts, along with 
those of the Chief of Naval Operations, introduced the Navy to Senators 
who would not otherwise have had exposure to the great work our sailors 
are doing around the globe.
  On behalf of my colleagues and the U.S. Congress, I thank Admiral 
Faller for his dedicated service to the Navy and our Nation. I also 
thank his wife, Martha, for her support and sacrifice. I wish them fair 
winds and following seas as he moves on to his next assignment as the 
senior military assistant to the Secretary of Defense.

                          ____________________



