

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 1 (Tuesday, January 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 1 (Tuesday, January 3, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H28]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair will make a statement with respect 
to the recent change on the use of electronic equipment on the House 
floor.
  The Chair would like to take this opportunity to call to the 
attention of all Members the changes to rule II and rule XVII just 
adopted for the 115th Congress. The Sergeant at Arms is charged with 
enforcement of clause 3(g) rule II, which prohibits the use of 
electronic devices for still photography or for audio or visual 
recording or broadcasting in contravention of clause 5 of rule XVII and 
related policies.
  The Chair understands that the Sergeant at Arms will enforce the 
prohibition with respect to violations observed firsthand on the House 
floor as well as violations that become apparent at a later time, such 
as through publication online or broadcast on television.
  In the case of violations observed on the floor, the Sergeant at Arms 
will hand the offending Member a card noting the violation, and will 
follow up by sending the Member a written letter. In the case of other 
violations, Members will receive a written letter detailing the 
offending conduct.
  The fine for a first offense is $500. The fine for each subsequent 
offense is $2,500. The Sergeant at Arms will endeavor to provide 
Members a written warning prior to assessing a fine for a first 
offense. Members may appeal a fine to the Committee on Ethics.
  The Chair appreciates the attention of all Members to these efforts.


                         Parliamentary Inquiry

  Mr. CROWLEY. Mr. Speaker, parliamentary inquiry.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman from New York will state his 
parliamentary inquiry.
  Mr. CROWLEY. My understanding is, the more money you have, the more 
free speech you have. Is that what the Chair is indicating?
  The more money you have, the more free speech you have in this 
country: Is that what you are saying?
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman from New York will state a 
parliamentary inquiry.
  Mr. CROWLEY. I am asking, listening to what the Chair just said for 
the Record, the more money an individual has, does that mean the more 
free speech that individual has?
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. In response to the gentleman's question, he 
has still not stated a parliamentary inquiry.
  Mr. CROWLEY. Thank you, Mr. Speaker.

                          ____________________



