

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S273-S274]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          PRESIDENTIALMESSAGE

                                 ______
                                 

                2016 NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL STRATEGY--PM1

  The PRESIDINGOFFICER laid before the Senate the following message 
from the President of the United States, together with an 
accompanyingreport; which was referred to the Committee on the 
Judiciary:

To the Congress of the United States:

[[Page S274]]

  I ampleased to transmit the 2016 National Drug Control Strategy 
summarizing the accomplishments of my Administration's 21stcentury 
approach to drug policy and opportunities to continue to reduce the 
burden of substance use in the United States. MyAdministration released 
its first Strategy in 2010 with a commitment to use the best available 
science and to consultbroadly to develop a balanced and comprehensive 
approach to drug policy that incorporates both public health and public 
safetyapproaches to address this complex problem.
  We set aggressive goals to reduce drug use by 2015 and though the 
results of ourefforts are mixed, we have seen progress in reducing drug 
use and in cooperation both nationally and internationally. As aNation 
we exceeded our goals for reducing alcohol and tobacco use among youth 
and for reducing the number of new HIV infectionsattributable to drug 
use. We have been less successful in reducing illicit drugs in youth 
and young adults as well as reducingthe number of drug-induced deaths 
and driving while drugged. We also face serious challenges including an 
epidemic of opioid useand overdose deaths as well as growing threats 
from drug trafficking organizations involved in manufacturing and 
distributingcocaine and synthetic drugs, including novel psychoactive 
substances. These threats may continue to have an impact on drug 
useacross lifespans, particularly chronic drug use and its consequences 
that contribute to poor academic performance, crime,underemployment, 
lost productivity, and health care costs, all of which threaten 
families and communities.
  My Administrationhas consistently sought a broad coalition of 
partners to provide input into the development and enhancement of the 
Strategyduring the past 7 years. We have invested in science to better 
understand the nature of addiction and inform the prevention 
andtreatment of addiction and support services to help maintain 
recovery in the community. We have sought to use medical terms andnon-
stigmatizing language when discussing substance use disorders, and 
those who suffer from this disease. Our support for lawenforcement has 
led to significant outcomes in taking down drug trafficking 
organizations and removing millions of pounds ofdrugs from the market. 
And our work with our international partners has been instrumental in 
our allies' increasing regulationof chemical precursors to synthetic 
drugs and reducing their movement across the globe. Throughout my 
Administration, we haveused the best available evidence to balance the 
Nations's public health and public safety and drive collaborative 
efforts tocreate healthier, safer, and more prosperous communities.
  The Nation's work in reducing drug use and its consequences is 
notdone and there are many opportunities for advancing efforts to 
address ongoing and emerging challenges. I thank the Congress forits 
continued support of our efforts and ask that you continue to support 
this vital endeavor.
                                                        Barack Obama.  
TheWhite House, January 11, 2017.

                          ____________________



