

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 41 (Thursday, March 9, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 41 (Thursday, March 9, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1740-S1741]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               TRIBUTE TO LIEUTENANT COLONEL MATT JONKEY

 Mr. HELLER. Mr. President, today I wish to congratulate LTC 
Matt Jonkey on completing his master of arts degree in security studies 
at the Naval Postgraduate School Center for Homeland Defense and 
Security, CHDS. It gives me great pleasure to recognize him for his 
recent success and his continued dedication to serving the great State 
of Nevada.
  CHDS is our Nation's epicenter for homeland security education 
located at the Naval Postgraduate School, NPS. Among the many programs 
CHDS offers, its masters program is exceptionally prestigious and 
provides its graduates with a vast array of useful skills. 
Additionally, the program offers extensive analysis of the security 
operation within the United States. To complete this intense 18-month 
program, CHDS graduates must exercise unconventional critical thinking 
skills, advanced leadership tactics, and develop a comprehensive 
understanding of security policy and operations.
  In addition to graduating from the University of Nevada at Reno with 
a bachelor's degree in criminal justice, lieutenant colonel Jonkey also 
managed to build an impressive career within the Nevada National Guard. 
He has held several positions with many responsibilities, ranging from 
aviation management to weapons of mass destruction response. Currently, 
lieutenant colonel Jonkey serves as commander of the 92nd WMD-CST where 
he oversees the Nevada National Guard's response to weapons of mass 
destruction and other HAZMAT-related disasters in support of civil 
authorities. Furthermore, lieutenant colonel Jonkey is also an 
outstanding father to his two daughters and a loving husband to his 
wife, Ashley.
  During his time in the CHDS program, lieutenant colonel Jonkey 
engaged in strategic and organizational debate with high-level, 
national security operatives across the country. Additionally, 
lietuenant colonel Jonkey

[[Page S1741]]

completed a thesis on government drones and the Department of Defense's 
abilities to respond to homeland disasters. After a rigorous 18-month 
online and in-residence program, lietuenant colonel Jonkey graduated 
from the CHDS program on December 16, 2016.
  I commend lieutenant colonel Jonkey for his unwavering dedication to 
his career and his courageous contributions to Nevada. His character is 
truly admirable and stands as a shining example for future generations. 
As a member of the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee, I applaud 
lieutenant colonel Jonkey's steadfast allegiance to the Silver State 
and his determination to complete this highly esteemed milestone.
  I ask my colleagues and all Nevadans to join me in congratulating 
lieutenant colonel Matt Jonkey for his recent achievement and his 
service to Nevada. I wish him the best of luck in all of his future 
endeavors.

                          ____________________



