

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 53 (Monday, March 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 53 (Monday, March 27, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2002-S2003]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           TEXT OF AMENDMENTS

  SA 193. Mr. McCONNELL proposed an amendment to Treaty Doc. 114-12, 
Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty of 1949 on the Accession of 
Montenegro; as follows:

       At the end add the following:
       ``This Treaty shall be effective 1 day after 
     ratification.''
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 194. Mr. McCONNELL proposed an amendment to amendment SA 193 
proposed by Mr. McConnell to Treaty Doc. 114-12, Protocol to the North 
Atlantic Treaty of 1949 on the Accession of Montenegro; as follows:

       Strike ``1 day'' and insert ``2 days''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 195. Mr. McCONNELL submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
by him to Treaty Doc. 114-12, Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty of 
1949 on the Accession of Montenegro; which was ordered to lie on the 
table; as follows:

       At the end add the following:
       ``This Treaty shall be effective 3 days after 
     ratification.''
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 196. Mr. McCONNELL submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 195 submitted by Mr. McConnell to Treaty Doc. 114-12, 
Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty of 1949 on the Accession of 
Montenegro; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       Strike ``3 days'' and insert ``4 days''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 197. Mr. McCONNELL submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
by him to the resolution of ratification for Treaty Doc. 114-12, 
Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty of 1949 on the Accession of 
Montenegro; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end add the following:
       ``This resolution shall be effective 5 days after 
     ratification.''
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 198. Mr. McCONNELL submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 197 submitted by Mr. McConnell to the resolution of 
ratification for Treaty Doc. 114-12, Protocol to the North Atlantic 
Treaty of 1949 on the Accession of Montenegro; which was ordered to lie 
on the table; as follows:

       Strike ``5'' and insert ``6''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 199. Mr. PAUL submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to Treaty Doc. 114-12, Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty of 
1949 on the Accession of Montenegro; which was ordered to lie on the 
table; as follows:

       At the end of Article I of the Protocol to the North 
     Atlantic Treaty of 1949 on the Accession of Montenegro, add 
     the following: ``The Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty of 
     1949 on the Accession of Montenegro shall not obligate the 
     United States Armed Forces to hostilities in accordance with 
     Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty of 1949 unless the 
     United States Congress passes a declaration of war pursuant 
     to article I, section 8, clause 11 of the United States 
     Constitution.''.

                                 ______
                                 
  SA 200. Mr. PAUL submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to Treaty Doc. 114-12, Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty of 
1949 on the Accession of Montenegro; which was ordered to lie on the 
table; as follows:

       At the end of Article I of the Protocol to the North 
     Atlantic Treaty of 1949 on the Accession of Montenegro, add 
     the following: ``The Protocol is dependent on Montenegro 
     meeting its commitment that defense expenditure is two 
     percent of Montenegro's gross domestic product.''.

                                 ______
                                 
  SA 201. Mr. PAUL submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to Treaty Doc. 114-12, Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty of 
1949 on the Accession of Montenegro; which was ordered to lie on the 
table; as follows:

       At the end of Article I of the Protocol to the North 
     Atlantic Treaty of 1949 on the Accession of Montenegro, add 
     the following: ``The Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty of 
     1949 on the Accession of Montenegro is dependent on each 
     member of NATO and Montenegro meeting its commitment that 
     defense expenditure is two percent of its gross domestic 
     product.''.

                                 ______
                                 
  SA 202. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him 
to the resolution of ratification for Treaty Doc. 114-12, Protocol to 
the North Atlantic Treaty of 1949 on the Accession of Montenegro; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of paragraph (1) of section 3, add the 
     following:
       (C) The inclusion of Montenegro in NATO will contribute 
     materially to the territorial defense of the United States.

[[Page S2003]]

  

                                 ______
                                 
  SA 203. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him 
to the resolution of ratification for Treaty Doc. 114-12, Protocol to 
the North Atlantic Treaty of 1949 on the Accession of Montenegro; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of section 2, add the following:
       (8) Future senate consideration of future nato expansion.--
     The Senate declares that any future initiative to expand NATO 
     should be thoroughly debated and considered from inception, 
     with the highest priority given to evaluating the benefits 
     and risks of such an expansion to the security of the 
     American people and the safety of members of the United 
     States Armed Forces.

                          ____________________



