

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 41 (Thursday, March 9, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 41 (Thursday, March 9, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1739]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                        TRIBUTE TO LYLE BURGESS

 Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this week, I have the distinct 
honor of recognizing Lyle Burgess of Ryegate. Lyle has been a 
dependable leader for the people of Golden Valley County for over a 
generation. He has contributed to the community in the fields of 
education and emergency services. Golden Valley County is located in 
the middle of Montana, and Lyle has been in the middle of events in the 
county for many years.
  After graduating from Eastern Montana College, now known as Montana 
State University-Billings, Lyle began a 30-year career as a school 
teacher at Ryegate High School. A few years after he started teaching, 
Lyle began serving as a first responder with the Golden Valley County 
Emergency Medical Services. Although he is now retired from teaching, 
Lyle continues to serve his community: he went on to become the 
director of EMS. Today he still serves in that role. As director, Lyle 
is responsible for training new first responders and getting them ready 
to be Emergency Medical Technicians. The familiar saying ``once a 
teacher, always a teacher'' rings true for Mr. Burgess. Golden Valley 
County Sheriff Robert Pallas referred to Lyle and his colleague at EMS, 
Mary Ann Schladweiler, as the ``staples'' of the program.
  Golden Valley County is home to just about 800 residents. The rural 
setting magnifies the necessity of having great folks like Lyle and 
Mary Ann offer their time and talent in the service of others. Montana 
is a State blessed with many treasures, and the greatest treasure of 
all is the people. Thank you, Lyle, for going above and beyond in the 
community and teaching others by your example.

                          ____________________



