

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 58 (Tuesday, April 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 58 (Tuesday, April 4, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2213]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                                VAISAKHI

  Mr. TOOMEY. Mr. President, I wish to honor and celebrate the holiday 
of Vaisakhi, a very significant day for those who practice Sikhism.
  The world's fifth largest religion, Sikhism was founded over five 
centuries ago and was introduced to the United States in the 19th 
century. Today there are over 500,000 Sikh adherents in the United 
States.
  Pennsylvania is the home of many proud Sikh Americans, who make a 
positive impact in their workplaces, communities, and to our country. 
They are an important part of the rich cultural fabric of the 
Commonwealth. There are many gurdwaras, or centers of worship, located 
across the State, which serve a vital role for both the Sikh community 
and people of other faiths.
  This year, Vaisakhi will be celebrated on Friday, April 14. On this 
day in 1699, Guru Gobind Singh created the Khalsa, a fellowship of 
devout Sikhs. Vaisakhi is a festival that marks both this occasion and 
the spring harvest. This holiday, which is meant to promote service to 
others, reminds us of the valuable contributions Sikh Americans make in 
many of our communities.
  The Sikh community around the world recognizes this important holiday 
with parades, dancing, singing, visits to gurdwaras, and other 
festivities. Celebrations also include performing ``seva,'' or selfless 
service, which can include providing free meals to others or 
volunteering for different service projects in their communities.
  This year, the Sikh Coordination Committee East Coast has organized a 
National Sikh Day Parade here in Washington, DC, on April 8, 2017, to 
commemorate this occasion. Thousands of Sikhs from all over United 
States are participating in this parade, which will celebrate the Sikh 
identity and culture.
  As a member of the American Sikh Congressional Caucus, I am honored 
to represent the Sikh community of Pennsylvania, and I wish the Sikh 
American community a joyous Vaisakhi. Thank you.

                          ____________________



