

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 41 (Thursday, March 9, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 41 (Thursday, March 9, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1738-S1739]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                TRIBUTE TO MASTER SERGEANT KEARY MILLER

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, today it is my honor to congratulate 
retired MSgt Keary Miller of the Kentucky Air National Guard's 123 
Special

[[Page S1739]]

Tactics Squadron. On January 17, 2017, the U.S. Air Force awarded 
Master Sergeant Miller, of Goshen, KY, its highest honor, the Air Force 
Cross. This award is presented ``for extraordinary heroism while 
engaged in military operations against an opposing foreign force.'' It 
is second only to the Congressional Medal of Honor.
  In March 2002, Miller served in the Battle of Takur Ghar as part of 
Operation Anaconda in the Paktia province of Afghanistan. Their mission 
was to defeat Taliban forces hiding in on the Takur Ghar Mountain.
  During the mission, two MH-47E Chinook helicopters took enemy fire as 
they attempted to land. The helicopter lurched in an attempt to evade 
taking damage. The quick maneuvering caused PO1 Neil C. Roberts to fall 
from the rear ramp out of the vehicle. Miller, a pararescuman, was in a 
third helicopter to rescue Roberts. However, his vehicle was hit with 
automatic weapons fire and rocket propelled grenades when it was 20 
feet above the ground.
  The enemy fire damaged Miller's helicopter and forced them to touch 
down on Takur Ghar. After a hard landing, Miller and his team formed a 
defensive posture despite five critical casualties. Through rocket 
propelled grenade, mortar, and small arms fire, Miller dragged the 
wounded helicopter pilot to safety. For the next 17 hours, Miller and 
his team engaged the enemy in intense fighting, and he displayed 
astonishing bravery as he helped the wounded and resupplied his 
comrades.
  Through his heroic actions, Miller successfully brought 10 seriously 
wounded soldiers to medical treatment and recovered seven Americans 
killed in action.
  For his service, the Air Force awarded Miller the Silver Star on 
November 1, 2003. However, as part of the Department of Defense's 
review of combat medals, the Secretary of the Air Force Deborah Lee 
James upgraded the award to the Air Force Cross.
  In a statement, James said ``These are people whose lifestyle 
includes going above and beyond the call of duty and exemplifying the 
Air Force core values of integrity first, service before self and 
excellence in all we do.''
  To further commemorate Miller's extraordinary service, the National 
Museum of the United States Air Force at Wright-Patterson Air Force 
Base has included his actions in the Battle of Takur Ghar in a 
permanent exhibition on battlefield airmen.
  On behalf of a grateful nation, I want to extend my sincerest thanks 
to Master Sergeant Keary Miller for his service to the United States 
and the Kentucky Air National Guard. I ask my colleagues to join me in 
honoring this distinguished Kentuckian. He has earned this prestigious 
award, and he is a true American hero.

                          ____________________



