

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 13 (Tuesday, January 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 13 (Tuesday, January 24, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S407]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      DIALOGUE WITH THE PRESIDENT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, yesterday, leaders from both parties 
had an opportunity to meet with President Trump and Vice President 
Pence at the White House. We appreciate their time and look forward to 
more conversations with them in the days to come, including later 
today.
  The President has invited the Democratic leader, the chairman and 
ranking member of the Judiciary Committee, and me to the White House 
this afternoon to meet with him regarding the Supreme Court vacancy as 
part of his ongoing consultations with Members of the Senate. I 
appreciate the President soliciting our advice on this important 
matter.
  Later this week, Republicans in both the Senate and House will have 
another opportunity to engage with the President as we gather for our 
issues conference in Philadelphia. I know we are all eager to continue 
the dialogue about moving our legislative agenda, including priorities 
like bringing relief from the consequences of ObamaCare, confirming the 
President's nominees, enacting tax reform, easing the regulatory burden 
on our economy, and other key issues.
  We are also looking forward to hearing from another special guest, 
British Prime Minister Theresa May. Her visit will provide Members the 
chance to hear from the leader of one of our closest allies and 
partners. We appreciate her willingness to join us, and we welcome the 
opportunity to discuss the ways in which we can continue to strengthen 
our Nations' close relationship and pursue shared interests in the 
years ahead.
  Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. Without objection, it is so 
ordered.

                          ____________________



