

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 36 (Wednesday, March 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 36 (Wednesday, March 1, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1543]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I have eight requests for committees to 
meet during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of 
the Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to Rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


           committee on commerce, science, and transportation

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation be authorized 
to hold a meeting during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 
1, 2017, at 10 a.m. in room 106 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building, 
entitled ``Connecting America: Improving Access to Infrastructure for 
Communities Across the Country.''


               committee on environment and public works

  The Committee on Environment and Public Works be authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 1, 2017, at 10:30 
a.m., in room 406 of the Dirksen Senate office building, to conduct a 
hearing entitled, ``Flood Control Infrastructure: Safety Questions 
Raised by Current Events.''


                          committee on finance

  The Committee on Finance be authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Wednesday, March 1, 2017, at 10:30 a.m., in 215 Dirksen 
Senate Office Building, to consider nomination.


                       committee on the judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary be authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate, on March 1, 2017, following the first vote on 
the Senate Floor, in the Capitol, to conduct an executive business 
meeting.


                     committee on homeland security

  The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs be 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 
1, 2017, at 10 a.m. to conduct a hearing entitled ``The Effects of 
Border Insecurity and Lax Immigration Enforcement on American 
Communities.''


                     committee on veterans' affairs

  The Committee on Veterans' Affairs be authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 1, 2017, at 10 a.m., in room 
SD-G50 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building, to conduct a legislative 
presentation of The American Legion.


                     committee on veterans' affairs

  The Committee on Veterans' Affairs be authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 1, 2017, at 2 p.m., in room 
SD-G50 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building, to conduct a legislative 
presentation of Veterans of Foreign Wars.


           subcommittee on emerging threats and capabilities

  The Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities of the 
Committee on Armed Services be authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Wednesday, March 1, 2017, at 10:15 a.m., in closed 
session, to receive testimony on Global Counterterrorism.

                          ____________________



