

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 9 (Friday, January 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 9 (Friday, January 13, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H490-H520]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




        CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCALYEAR 2017


                             General Leave

  Mrs. BLACK. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members may 
have 5 legislative days within which to revise andextend their remarks 
and include extraneous materials on S. Con. Res. 3.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentlewoman from Tennessee?
  There was no objection.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to House Resolution 48 and rule 
XVIII, the Chair declares the House in the Committee ofthe Whole House 
on the state of the Union for the consideration of the concurrent 
resolution, S. Con. Res. 3.
  The Chair appoints the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. Hultgren) to 
preside over the Committee of the Whole.

                              {time}  1057


                     In the Committee of the Whole

  Accordingly, the House resolved itself into the Committee of the 
Whole House on the state of the Union for the considerationof the 
concurrent resolution (S. Con. Res. 3) setting forth the congressional 
budget for the United States Government for fiscalyear 2017 and setting 
forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 
2026, with Mr. Hultgren in thechair.
  The Clerk read the title of the concurrent resolution.
  The CHAIR. Pursuant to the rule, the concurrent resolution is 
considered read the first time.
  General debate shall not exceed 2 hours, with 90 minutes confined to 
the congressional budget, equally divided andcontrolled by the chair 
and ranking minority member of the Committee on the Budget, and 30 
minutes on the subject of economicgoals and policies, equally divided 
and controlled by the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Tiberi) and the 
gentlewoman from NewYork (Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney), or their designees.
  The gentlewoman from Tennessee (Mrs. Black) and the gentleman from 
Kentucky (Mr. Yarmuth) each will control 45minutes of debate on the 
congressional budget.
  The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Tennessee.
  Mrs. BLACK. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Chairman, I would like to inform my colleagues that I intend to 
reserve 5 minutes of debate time to use after the JointEconomic 
Committee debate has concluded.
  Mr. Chairman, I rise today to speak on behalf of Americans everywhere 
who are hurting because of ObamaCare. They are callingout for relief 
from this disastrous law, and Republicans are here today to begin 
delivering on our promise to provide relief.
  We hear plenty of claims from the other side of the aisle during this 
debate, but let's be clear: ObamaCare has failed andit is only going to 
get worse.

                              {time}  1100

  Patients have seen skyrocketing premiums and deductibles, lost access 
to the doctors they preferred, had fewer coverageoptions, while others 
have had their plans canceled outright. It is no wonder so many people 
have rejected this law.
  In 2015, roughly 8 million Americans paid the ObamaCare penalty, and 
more than 12 million Americans claimed an exemptionfrom the penalty. 
That is 20 million Americans. What does that say about this law that 20 
million Americans want nothing to dowith it, many preferring to pay a 
penalty rather than to be subjected to its higher costs and fewer 
choices? If you ask me, itis strong evidence that the American people 
are tired of paying more and getting less.
  Of course, the destruction that ObamaCare has caused extends beyond 
discouraging individuals to purchase coverage. It hasbeen a direct 
attack on those who had insurance already.
  In my home State of Tennessee, 28,000 people lost coverage on a 
single day when the CoverTN program lapsed after the 
Obamaadministration decreed that it ran afoul of the Federal 
Government's top-down requirements. Now premiums in our State are 
risingby an average of 63 percent, and three-quarters of our counties 
only have one coverage option to choose from on the ObamaCareexchange.
  In five other States around the country--Alabama, Alaska, Oklahoma, 
South Carolina, and Wyoming--patients only have oneinsurer in the 
marketplace to choose from. That makes it pretty difficult for someone 
to find a plan that meets their uniqueneeds or that of their family.
  President Obama promised that this law would lower premiums by $2,500 
per year for the average family. The exact oppositehas happened. 
Average family premiums have gone up by $4,300, and deductibles have 
gone up by 60 percent. This is hittinghardworking Americans, many of 
whom are already struggling to make ends meet.
  Folks in Tennessee and all across the country are spending more and 
more money on their health insurance because ofObamaCare, when they 
would rather be saving for a new house or for their children's college. 
The last thing working men andwomen need right now is the Federal 
Government making their life harder with more expensive health 
insurance by continuing tosupport this failed law.
  That is why we are here today. The Senate successfully passed this 
resolution yesterday, and now it is time for the House todeliver on our 
promise, by kick-starting the reconciliation process so that we can 
repeal ObamaCare and provide relief for thefolks who are hurting 
because of this law.
  While our friends on the other side of the aisle always claim that 
Republicans have no ideas or no plans to replaceObamaCare, that simply 
isn't

[[Page H491]]

true, and they know it. I have with me here today a few examples, 
including A Better Way, the37-page proposal that will provide access to 
care for all Americans and increase choice and competition.
  I would like to also reference that Pete Sessions has a healthcare 
bill that he has filed. The RSC, with Phil Roe,has a replacement bill 
that has been filed. Paul Ryan filed a bill right after the passage of 
ObamaCare. We also haveTom Price's replacement bill that is here. All 
of these documents are here and available for people to look at and to 
alsofind online, as well as A Better Way that we have put out from our 
Conference.
  I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on this resolution to begin the 
process of repealing ObamaCare and paving the way forpatient-centered 
reforms.
  Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  I would like to remind my colleague that her vote today to repeal the 
Affordable Care Act will result in 266,000 people fromher State of 
Tennessee losing their healthcare coverage, 57,000 workers losing their 
jobs, and an economic loss of $34.2 billionin gross State product for 
the State of Tennessee over 5 years.
  The so-called budget before us was drafted by Republicans for the 
sole purpose of repealing the Affordable Care Act anddefunding Planned 
Parenthood by a simple majority in the Senate. It squanders the 
opportunity to start this new Congress workingtogether to address the 
concerns and priorities of the American people in a constructive and 
bipartisan manner.
  The Affordable Care Act is making an incredible difference across my 
home State of Kentucky, as in many other places. Withour expansion of 
Medicaid and the success of our State marketplace, Kynect, more than 
half a million Kentuckians in a State of 4million have gained quality, 
affordable coverage. In Louisville alone, the uninsured rate dropped 81 
percent.
  In a State with tremendous health needs, we are a national model of 
ACA success. Even our Republican Senator, RandPaul, and our Republican 
Governor, Matt Bevin, who are vehemently opposed to the law, know we 
can't go back to where we werebefore the ACA. They now acknowledge that 
Republicans in Congress should not repeal the Affordable Care Act 
without immediatelyreplacing it.
  Much of the debate about the ACA focuses on the 20 million newly 
insured individuals, but the law has done much more thanthat. Millions 
of seniors on Medicare have saved on prescription drug coverage. For 
people on their employer's plan, out-of-pocket costs are capped, and 
lifetime limits are gone. If you are one of the 129 million Americans 
with a preexisting condition,you currently have the peace of mind of 
knowing that you can always get coverage if you lose your job, change 
your job, or startyour own business.
  Let me tell you about Steve Riggert, my constituent who recently 
wrote to me. When Steve's daughter Anna was 12, she wasdiagnosed with 
chronic pancreatitis, a rare disease for a child. This is Anna. Over 
the next 3 years, she was hospitalized 15times. Despite their best 
efforts and prayers, transplant surgery did not achieve success. She 
has struggled with diabetes andcomplications. At age 22, she has been 
hospitalized 26 times for various reasons.
  From the beginning, Steve knew that Anna's preexisting condition 
would make getting medical coverage difficult. So far, hehas been able 
to cover her medical bills through his employer plan. When the ACA was 
passed, he was immensely relieved that Annacould always get coverage 
even though she has had a serious preexisting medical condition.
  But the Republican plan to repeal the ACA has now left Steve 
feeling--and these are his words--helpless, petrified, and,literally, 
losing sleep. At age 64 and recently diagnosed with pancreatic cancer, 
he fears for how much he can support her. Toquote his letter: ``Repeal 
of all aspects of the Affordable Care Act would place everything I have 
worked for and those I careabout in jeopardy.''
  Mr. Chairman, I am here today to fight for Steve, for Anna, and for 
all the Americans across the country who are begging younot to take 
away their health care. Repealing the Affordable Care Act without a 
replacement will cause chaos. Nearly 30 millionpeople would lose 
coverage, including more than 4 million kids. Any consumers left in the 
individual market are likely to facehigher premiums and fewer choices 
as insurers exit the system.
  It has been nearly 7 years since the Affordable Care Act was signed 
into law, and Republicans still do not have a viableplan to replace it, 
period. Republican Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers said this 
week that the Republicanreplacement plan will guarantee ``no one who 
has coverage today because of ObamaCare will lose that coverage.''
  We are waiting for that plan because none of the bills Republicans 
will wave from that podium today meet that standard orhas the support 
of the majority of their Conference. Democrats offered a number of 
amendments to this budget to protect the ACAand make it reflect the 
priorities of American families. We owe the millions of people who are 
deeply concerned about thisprocess nothing less. Unfortunately, 
Republicans refuse to allow a vote on a single one.
  Putting American families and our Nation's healthcare system at risk 
is irresponsible. I, therefore, urge my colleagues tooppose the 
Republican budget. The American people deserve better. Anna deserves 
better. Her father and her family deservebetter.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mrs. BLACK. Mr. Chairman, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from 
Indiana (Mr. Rokita), one of my classmates and alsothe vice chair of 
the Committee on the Budget.
  Mr. ROKITA. Mr. Chair, I thank the chairwoman for yielding the time. 
It is a pleasure to continue our work together on thisvery important 
issue.
  It has taken us 6 years to get to today, the first real step in 
repealing what is one of the most insidious laws that evercame out of 
these Chambers--insidious because it was built on lies. Remember ``You 
can keep your doctor if you want to,'' ``Youcan keep your plan if you 
want to''? Lies. Remember when premiums were to go down because this, 
of course, Mr. Chairman, was theAffordable Care Act? Lies.
  The gentleman from Kentucky made some assertions just a while ago. I 
want to take a look at the State of Kentucky itself.Four plans left the 
ObamaCare exchange at the end of 2016 in the State of Kentucky. Of the 
remaining plans, each increased theirpremiums by double digits: 22.9 
percent, 29.3 percent, and 33.7 percent, respectively, for 2017. And 
Kentucky's exchangeenrollment decreased by 12 percent.
  How, Mr. Chairman, is this helping people?
  Look, if we didn't care about people, we could stand by and watch 
this failed plan, this insidious law continue to implode,continue to 
hurt people. Instead, we stand here ready to erase the foundation that 
this law was based on and put forth a betterone, one that doesn't leave 
anyone behind, one that is based on market-driven, consumer-driven, 
patient-driven needs andexpectations and allows them to, for example, 
keep their job.
  What do I mean by that, Mr. Chairman? Consider this. Not only do we 
have bad healthcare outcomes as a result of thisinsidious law, people 
are losing work. They are being robbed of their dignity to work. Since 
ObamaCare, 21 percent of businessesare reducing the number of 
employees, their wages and salaries and their benefits, including their 
retirement benefits.
  So this insidious law is not only having detrimental implications on 
our health care and people's health, but it is takingaway the very 
dignity that they have to work.
  It is also spelling the death of health savings accounts, proven over 
the last several years to be part of the solution toconsumer-driven 
health care. The idea that you can save for your healthcare expenses, 
with or without the government's help, sothat you can make value 
decisions as to your health care without government interference. It 
leads to better patient outcomes.It leads to freedom to make healthcare 
decisions absent the oversight of the government. ObamaCare all but 
outlawed healthsavings accounts. I think

[[Page H492]]

health savings accounts are probably in every one of those different 
plans the chairwomanpointed out.
  So we are offering a replacement. We are offering solutions. We are 
offering a better way.
  Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Chairman, I would like to thank my colleague for the 
shout-out to Kentucky. He neglected to mention thatour Governor, 
Republican Governor, who was elected in 2015 has done virtually 
everything he could over the last year to sabotagethe Affordable Care 
Act, including dismantling our incredibly successful Kynect exchange, 
and that is one of the reasons whysome of the enrollments declined, 
because he has made it harder for people to enroll.
  I would remind my friend, also, that his vote today to repeal the 
Affordable Care Act will result in 339,000 people from hisState of 
Indiana losing their healthcare coverage, 55,000 workers losing their 
jobs, and an economic loss of $30.4 billion ingross State product over 
5 years in Indiana.
  I now yield to the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Gene Green) for a 
unanimous consent request.
  (Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas asked and was given permission to revise and 
extend his remarks.)
  Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I oppose the Republican 
resolution and support the Democratic resolution. Weshouldn't deal with 
affordable care without a solution. Just don't repeal. Let's see what 
the replacement is so we don't, asKentucky would say, buy a pig in a 
poke.
  Mr. Chair, I rise in opposition to S. Con. Res. 3, the FY 2017 Budget 
Resolution, the next step in the process of repealingessential coverage 
and patient protections established by the Affordable Care Act.
  Moving forward with implementing the GOP's devastating ACA repeal 
plan will lead to massive losses of coverage and consumerprotections 
for people enrolled in insurance and in the Medicaid program.
  It will hamper the movement towards value-based payment reforms, 
burden seniors with higher out-of-pocket costs on theirprescription 
drugs, and undermine prevention and wellness initiatives.
  Repealing the ACA will leave every state with big increases in the 
uninsured rate and higher uncompensated care costs, andthreatens 
coverage for people with pre-existing conditions.
  Charging forward without even agreeing on a replacement plan is a 
blatant abdication of the responsibilities we have asrepresentatives of 
the American people.
  The effects of doing so are not abstract. People are going to get 
hurt in very real ways.
  The American people deserve to know how Republicans plan to avoid the 
devastating consequences of ACA repeal, which includemillions losing 
coverage, chaos in the insurance markets, hospitals and states losing 
billions of dollars and a hit to oureconomy.
  In addition, the FY17 Budget Resolution shamelessly prioritizes 
politics over patients by proposing to defund PlannedParenthood.
  Denying patients the quality care--including breast exams, 
contraception, and preventive and primary care services--will 
onlyexacerbate the pain felt from coverage losses for the 2.5 million 
patients who depend on Planned Parenthood each year for care.
  The Resolution is bad for patients, budgets, and will upend our 
health care system.
  It fails the test of sensible policymaking.
  The lack of any details on the ACA replacement Republicans say they 
will enact fails the test of sensible policymaking:having the key 
information before voting.
  We should be taking steps to amend, not upend, the law.
  I urge my colleagues to abandon this collision course and stop 
working against the American people.
  We should not be ``Making America Sick Again.''
  Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
Washington (Ms. DelBene), a distinguished memberof the Committee on the 
Budget.
  Ms. DelBENE. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong opposition to this 
reckless budget resolution. Congress had an opportunityto start on a 
bipartisan note, to work on creating jobs, building an economy that 
works for everyone, and investing in ourinfrastructure. Instead, House 
Republicans are ringing in the new year by repealing the Affordable 
Care Act, stripping more than20 million people of their health 
insurance. What is worse, there is still no plan for what comes next, 
threatening massivedisruption to the entire healthcare system.
  I offered a number of amendments to this legislation, none of which 
were allowed a vote today. My amendments would havestopped this 
dangerous process from moving forward if the Republican budget reduces 
access to treatment for those suffering fromaddiction, reduces access 
to health care in rural areas, forces seniors to pay more for care, or 
privatizes Medicare. I alsocosponsored an amendment by Congresswoman 
Lee to protect women's access to reproductive health and family 
planningservices.

                              {time}  1115

  Apparently, the majority is not concerned with these issues. Before 
the ACA, the situation was unacceptable. It was a timewhen people went 
bankrupt because they got sick, when individuals with preexisting 
medical conditions found it virtuallyimpossible to obtain affordable 
coverage.
  But now, more than 120 million Americans with preexisting conditions 
are no longer denied coverage, and young adults canstay on their 
parents' plans until they are 26.
  Over 10 million seniors have received help with their prescription 
drug payments, and all insurance plans are required tocover 
preventative services with no copayments.
  Rather than focusing on commonsense reforms to strengthen the ACA, 
Republicans want to eliminate vital lifesaving policywith no plan for 
what comes next. I strongly urge a ``no'' vote.
  Mrs. BLACK. Mr. Chairman, it is my pleasure to yield 2 minutes to the 
gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Johnson), one of myclassmates from the 2010 
class, and a member of the Budget Committee.
  Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio. Mr. Chair, it is amazing to me now that some of 
our colleagues on the other side of the aisle arecalling to see the 
replacement before the repeal. What irony that is when--at that time 
the Speaker--the leader of their party,said: let's pass this law so we 
can see what is in it.
  Well, the American people saw what is in it, and they don't like it. 
It is broken. It needs to be fixed.
  The American people deserve a stable transition to a patient-centered 
healthcare system that gives them access to high-quality, affordable 
health care.
  It has got to be done thoughtfully and carefully as it will impact 
millions--because I agree with my colleagues that it isgoing to impact 
millions. But it is going to positively impact millions if we do it 
right. And we will.
  The only way to accomplish it in this current environment, the only 
way to accomplish the repeal of ObamaCare, is throughthe budget 
reconciliation process. And so this budget resolution that we are going 
to be considering today is simply arequirement, the triggering 
mechanism for the reconciliation process.
  We are going to get to the fiscal year 2018 budget, a budget that 
balances, a budget that puts us on a path of fiscalsustainability, but 
this resolution essentially fires the starting pistol, Mr. Chairman, 
for repeal of ObamaCare, which hasfailed the American people.
  We will be addressing the spending levels for the future in the 
fiscal year 2018 budget. This is something the Americanpeople have 
demanded, and now Republicans are going to deliver on it.
  Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Chairman, I remind my colleague that his vote today 
to repeal the Affordable Care Act will result in664,000 people from his 
State of Ohio losing their healthcare coverage; 126,000 workers losing 
their jobs; and an economic lossof $69.5 billion in gross State product 
for the State of Ohio. Ohio's Republican Governor is begging us not to 
repeal theAffordable Care Act.
  Mr. Chairman, I now yield 1 minute to the gentleman from Illinois 
(Mr. Krishnamoorthi), a distinguished member of theEducation and the 
Workforce Committee.
  Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI. Mr. Chairman, I am Congressman Raja 
Krishnamoorthi, and I represent the hardworking familiesof Chicago's 
west and northwest suburbs.
  I rise today in strong opposition to S. Con. Res. 3.
  Repealing without replacing the Affordable Care Act at the same time 
would devastate our economy and harm millions of middleclass families.

[[Page H493]]

Within the Eighth District of Illinois alone, we could lose upwards of 
$550 million from our economy, andover 4,000 jobs.
  Before joining Congress, I ran small businesses in the Chicago area 
in the national security and technology sectors. I knowfirsthand how 
important health coverage is to our workers and to our businesses. 
Without the protections of the ACA, we will seefewer entrepreneurs take 
the risk of starting a business and fewer workers taking the risk of 
working for a startup.
  Middle class and working families need good-paying jobs and 
affordable health care. And, unfortunately, the bill before ustoday 
would rob them of both.
  Mrs. BLACK. Mr. Chairman, I do want to make reference to Ranking 
Member Yarmuth's information on the Commonwealth fund.I want to note 
that that report that was reported out does not take into account that 
Republicans do have a plan. It also doesnot take into account that the 
repeal of the taxes would put money back into the economy and boost the 
economy.
  I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from Minnesota (Mr. Lewis), a 
freshman and one of the newest members of the BudgetCommittee.
  Mr. LEWIS of Minnesota. Mr. Chairman, today, I join many of my 
colleagues in taking the first steps to repeal and replaceObamaCare.
  My home State of Minnesota has been hit especially hard by this law. 
Minnesotans have seen their health insurance choicesshrink, while their 
premiums, copays, and deductibles skyrocket. I should know.
  For the last, in fact, over 5 years, I have been in the individual 
market and my own insurance premiums have nearly tripled,and I have 
gone through three insurers.
  Minnesotans have seen a 50 to 67 percent increase in the premium 
costs this year alone. That is the fourth highest increasein the 
country.
  As Democratic Governor Mark Dayton of Minnesota stated: ``. . . the 
Affordable Care Act is no longer affordable. . . .''
  In fact, politicians in Minnesota are looking for waivers from the 
Affordable Care Act; not more of it. The other side likesto talk about 
healthcare access. Mr. Chairman, I would argue that the single biggest 
obstacle to healthcare access right now isthe Affordable Care Act. It 
is not sustainable.
  It is time to repeal this failed legislation and replace it with 
meaningful reforms that empower consumers, expand choice,and increase 
affordability.
  I urge my colleagues to support this resolution, so all Minnesotans 
and all Americans canhave access to affordable and portable health 
care.

  Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Chairman, I remind my colleague that his vote today 
to repeal the Affordable Care Act will result in250,000 people from his 
State of Minnesota losing their healthcare coverage; 53,000 workers 
losing their jobs; and an economicloss of $32.9 billion in gross State 
product over 5 years.
  Mr. Chairman, it now gives me great pleasure to yield 1 minute to the 
gentleman from California (Mr. Thompson), adistinguished member of the 
Ways and Means Committee.
  Mr. THOMPSON of California. Mr. Chair, I rise in opposition to repeal 
of the Affordable Care Act.
  For 7 years, all we have heard from the Republicans regarding health 
care is repeal and replace.
  After 7 years and more than 60 votes, they still have not come up 
with the replace. This isn't just a talking point. This isliterally a 
matter of life and death for people.
  Raymond, from Napa in my district, was diagnosed with stage III renal 
cancer in 1996. His premiums rose year after yearuntil we passed the 
ACA.
  Before the ACA, Raymond worried about losing his insurance because of 
his preexisting condition. In fact, his cancerreturned in 2014, but, 
thanks to the ACA, he got the treatment he needed.
  What are Republicans going to do for Raymond if they repeal the ACA 
and his premiums go up, or his insurance drops himbecause he had cancer 
over 20 years ago, or he hits his lifetime cap on coverage?
  Republicans need to ask themselves if they are willing to return 
Americans like Raymond to a time when the care they neededwas always 
beyond their grasp.
  I am not saying that it is perfect, but we need to keep it. It also 
kills 3 million jobs.
  Mrs. BLACK. Mr. Chairman, it is my distinct honor to yield 2 minutes 
to the gentleman from Louisiana (Mr. Scalise), ourHouse whip.
  Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Chair, I thank the gentlewoman from Tennessee for 
bringing this budget resolution to the floor.
  Mr. Chairman, ObamaCare has failed the American people. And if you go 
back to the beginning, it was created with a series oflies to the 
American people. We all remember: if you like what you have, you can 
keep it. How has that worked out for millionsof Americans who lost the 
plans that they liked and now cannot keep that plan?
  What about the promise, Mr. Chairman, that premiums would go down by 
$2,500? President Obama made that claim. And today, inStates all across 
the Nation, you are seeing premiums go up, on average, 25 percent, and 
that is on top of double-digitincreases every single year ObamaCare has 
been in effect.
  This law is not working. It is failing families. It is costing jobs 
across our economy. It is time to repeal this law andactually replace 
it with reforms that put patients back in charge of their medical 
decisions with their doctors. What a greatconcept that would be.
  It is about time we focus on lowering the cost of health care and 
giving people real choices. In so many markets across thecountry--and 
it is a growing number--families have only one choice for health care 
now because ObamaCare has forced so many peopleout of the marketplace, 
which means you as a family don't have any choices, because one choice 
means it is a monopoly. And youwonder why the costs are skyrocketing.
  Mr. Chairman, this should not be about preserving somebody's legacy. 
It should be about fulfilling those promises to theAmerican people that 
were broken. And we are here to fulfill that promise--how refreshing it 
is that you have people that ran foryears saying we are going to repeal 
ObamaCare--with a President who is ready to sign the bill to repeal 
ObamaCare.
  Today, just in the second week of this new Congress, we are taking 
the first step to fulfill that promise to the Americanpeople, to put 
their healthcare decisions back in their hands with costs that they can 
afford, and real choices that work forall Americans.
  Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Chairman, I will remind my colleague that his vote 
today to repeal the Affordable Care Act will result in269,000 people 
from his State of Louisiana losing their healthcare coverage; 37,000 
workers losing their jobs; and an economicloss of $21.5 billion in 
gross State product over 5 years for the State of Louisiana.
  Mr. Chairman, I now yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from New 
Mexico (Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham), a distinguishedmember of the 
Budget Committee.
  Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico. Mr. Chair, I can tell you 
who is happy that the budget resolution will likely passthe House 
today, Big Pharma. Pharmaceutical companies are once again escaping any 
changes to a system which has repeatedlyallowed them to prioritize 
profits over people and drive increases in out-of-pocket healthcare 
costs.
  Companies like Mylan, Turing, and Valeant are jacking up lifesaving 
drugs like EpiPen for anaphylactic shock; Daraprim forHIV and cancer 
patients; and Nitropress for heart failure overnight without any 
accountability.
  While the American people increasingly can't afford their medicine, 
pharmaceutical companies are the wealthiest they havebeen in years.
  In fact, median healthcare and pharmaceutical executive pay is higher 
than any other industry in the United States.
  And even though taxpayers fund billions of dollars of basic medical 
research used to develop groundbreaking drugs,pharmaceutical companies 
often charge Americans many times what the rest of the world pays.
  Mr. Chair, Americans can't afford to continue giving pharmaceutical 
and health insurance executives a pay raise, and many onboth sides of 
the aisle agree.
  Just this week, President-elect Donald Trump added his voice to that 
effort saying: pharma was ``getting away

[[Page H494]]

withmurder.'' I agree. They are literally getting away with murder. 
Because if a mother can't afford her child's EpiPen, or a cancerpatient 
can't afford treatment, people die.
  So I offered an amendment to this budget resolution seeking to lower 
prescription drug costs, but Republicans refuse to evenallow debate on 
my amendment.
  Instead of fighting to make sure Americans have access to lifesaving 
medications, Republicans are protecting the ability ofpharmaceutical 
companies to continue to shake down the American people.
  I urge my colleagues to oppose this resolution and, instead, address 
these healthcare costs and access issues that everyAmerican knows too 
well.
  Mrs. BLACK. Mr. Chairman, it is my honor to yield 3 minutes to the 
distinguished gentlewoman from North Carolina (Ms.Foxx), who is the 
chairman of the Education and the Workforce Committee.

                              {time}  1130

  Ms. FOXX. I thank my colleague from Tennessee for yielding time.
  Mr. Chairman, today, we take the next step in the process of 
providing the American people a better way on health care. Wehave all 
heard from constituents and families who are struggling to get by as 
they suffer the consequences of the fatally flawedhealthcare law.
  In my home State of North Carolina, the average ObamaCare premium has 
increased by a staggering 40 percent. Terry fromAdvance, North 
Carolina, is a 70-year-old retiree, but now he is working part time 
just to help pay for his wife's healthcarepremiums, which jumped from 
$300 a month to more than $887 a month.
  On top of higher premiums, deductibles have skyrocketed, too. 
Patricia from Kernersville now has a whopping $6,550deductible, and her 
premiums increased by 80 percent this year. Like so many Americans, 
Patricia is paying more for lesscoverage.
  Despite being promised, ``if you like your healthcare plan, you can 
keep it,'' millions of Americans have been kicked offtheir plans. Scott 
from Hickory has had his health insurance canceled three times now; 
disrupting his continuity of care.
  We have also heard from countless small-business owners who can no 
longer afford coverage for their employees because oflimited resources 
and soaring costs. Facing similar challenges, school leaders and 
college administrators have spoken out abouthow ObamaCare is 
exacerbating tight budgets--hurting teachers, faculty members, and, 
ultimately, the students they serve.
  The current situation is not sustainable; so Republicans are here on 
a rescue mission by providing the American peoplerelief. It is time to 
repeal President Obama's government takeover of health care. It is time 
to advance patient-centeredreforms that lower costs, provide more 
choices, and put working families--not government bureaucrats--in 
control of their healthcare.
  I urge my colleagues to support this budget resolution because it 
will move us one step closer to the patient-centeredhealth care the 
American people desperately want and need.
  Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Chairman, I will remind the gentlewoman that her 
vote today to repeal the Affordable Care Act will resultin 552,000 
people from her State of North Carolina losing their healthcare 
coverage, 76,000 workers losing their jobs, and aneconomic loss of 
$39.4 billion in gross State product, over 5 years, for North Carolina.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from Oregon (Ms. 
Bonamici), a distinguished member of the Educationand the Workforce 
Committee.
  Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to this budget 
resolution. The Affordable Care Act saves lives.
  Today I want to talk about Mark Rouska from Tualatin, Oregon. Mark 
was diagnosed with stage IV renal cancer, and doctorstold him the 
cancer had metastasized to his lungs. He had to resign from a job he 
loved as a special education teacher. Withoutchemotherapy, he would 
probably not be alive. That treatment costs about $20,000 a month, but 
because he has insurance throughthe Affordable Care Act, Mark pays 
about $175 a month. At the end of this month, Mark and his wife, 
Patrice, will celebratetheir 31st anniversary.
  Repealing the Affordable Care Act will endanger health coverage for 
millions of people. One of them is Mark. I will doeverything in my 
power to protect the many Oregonians who rely on the Affordable Care 
Act. I urge my colleagues to oppose thisresolution.
  Mrs. BLACK. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
Wisconsin (Mr. Grothman), who is also a member of ourBudget Committee.
  Mr. GROTHMAN. I thank the gentlewoman.
  Mr. Chairman, it is not a surprise, when you try to take over such a 
sizable chunk of America's economy, that you have allsorts of 
unintended bad consequences. I am going to focus on two consequences 
that are true of so many programs that thegovernment puts out there.
  First of all, ObamaCare is one more program that discourages work. If 
you talk to your accountants again and again, theywill tell you stories 
of people who are very conscious of the fact that, as they get a raise, 
as they work more overtime, theylose big subsidies. If I were to lose 
my next election, ObamaCare would continue. As my income would go up 
from $49,000 to$50,000, I would get hammered with a $4,500 loss. So it 
wouldn't be surprising that people in my position would be very 
carefulnot to get a raise or not to work overtime.
  Even worse, this is one more government program that discourages 
marriage. If you have a single parent who is making $20,000and if he 
decided to marry somebody making $30,000 or $40,000, he would be 
hammered with a $3,500 loss. Combined with theFoodShare program, the 
low-income housing subsidies, Pell grants, and various TANF programs, 
this is just one more step that theAmerican Government has taken to 
discourage work and to discourage marriage.
  Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Chairman, I will remind the gentleman that his vote 
today to repeal the Affordable Care Act will result in211,000 people 
from his State of Wisconsin losing their healthcare coverage, 46,000 
workers losing their jobs, and an economicloss of $25.7 billion in 
gross State product, over 5 years, for the State of Wisconsin.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. 
Jackson Lee), a distinguished member of the JudiciaryCommittee.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. I thank the distinguished gentleman.
  Mr. Chairman, I stand in opposition to this reckless, irresponsible, 
heartless, and bare bones Republican budget resolutionbecause it does 
nothing to provide jobs for the American workers; it does nothing to 
invest in the roads, bridges, ports, cybernetworks, and other 
infrastructure that is needed to sustain economic growth; it explodes 
the deficit and enriches those who arealready wealthy at the expense of 
middle and working class families.
  In particular, this foolish rush to repeal the Affordable Care Act 
makes plain for all to see that congressional Republicansare far more 
interested in scoring political points with their rightwing base than 
they are in protecting the health andeconomic security of American 
families.
  Thirty million people will lose their insurance; the insurance market 
will be in shambles; and families left behind willhave higher premiums. 
We will close rural hospitals; and hospitals will lose billions of 
dollars and might reduce services andcut jobs. The economy will lose 
2.6 million jobs.
  Repeal and replace is just a straw man. It is about real lives, like 
Pamela Gross', who suffers from chronic lupus and anumber of other 
autoimmune disorders that have required her to spend upwards of $5,000.
  The CHAIR. The time of the gentlewoman has expired.
  Mr. YARMUTH. I yield the gentlewoman an additional 15 seconds.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. I thank the gentleman.
  She writes: ``I asked my doctor recently, `With all that's going on, 
would I make it without treatment?' The doctor'sanswer: `No.'''
  In her instance, if the Affordable Care Act goes--if is it repealed--
she could completely lose her eligibility for expandedMedicaid and 
simply die. A young man in my district would die as well.

[[Page H495]]

  This is a bad bill. Vote against it. Save America's good health.
  Mr. Chair, I rise today in strong opposition to S. Con. Res. 3, the 
Congressional Budget Resolution for Fiscal Year 2017,which more 
appropriately should be known as the ``Make America Sick Again'' 
Budget.
  I stand in opposition to this reckless, irresponsible, heartless, and 
bare-bones Republican budget resolution because itdoes nothing to 
provide jobs for American workers; does nothing to invest in the roads, 
bridges, ports, cybernetworks, and otherinfrastructure needed to 
sustain economic growth; and explodes the deficit and enriches those 
who are already wealthy at theexpense of middle and working-class 
families.
  Let us be very clear about the real objective of our Republican 
colleagues: their sole purpose in bringing this resolutionto the floor 
is to pave the way for the repeal of the Affordable Care Act and the 
defunding of Planned Parenthood by a simplemajority vote in the Senate.
  This foolish rush to repeal the Affordable Care Act makes plain for 
all to see that congressional Republicans are far moreinterested in 
scoring political points with their right-wing base than they are in 
protecting the health and economic securityof American families.
  Mr. Chair, the Affordable Care Act has been an undisputed success, 
making access to quality affordable healthcare availableto more than 20 
million Americans who previously lived with the dreaded fear that an 
unexpected injury or illness to them or afamily member would go 
untreated or could bankrupt their families.
  While House Republicans may pine for a return to those bad old days, 
the large majority of Americans do not because theyunderstand that 
repeal of the Affordable Care Act will have devastating consequences 
for working families, women, and theeconomy.
  Mr. Chair, health care experts, governors, and hospitals warn that 
repealing the ACA without a comprehensive plan in itsplace will cause 
chaos and catastrophe, including:
  1. Nearly 30 million people would lose health care coverage, 
including more than 4 million kids;
  2. With the individual insurance market in shambles, families 
remaining in what's left of it could face higher premiums andfewer 
choices as insurers exit;
  3. Hospitals would lose billions of dollars and might reduce services 
or cut jobs; and rural hospitals would close.
  4. The economy would lose 2.6 million jobs in 2019, with the majority 
in non-health sectors.
  Additionally, eliminating Medicaid funding to Planned Parenthood 
would severely restrict women's access to comprehensivecare such as 
contraception, cancer screenings, and STI tests and treatments.
  Mr. Chair, Republicans claim they have a replacement plan for the 
Affordable Care Act but the truth is they do not have aplan now nor 
have they in the past nor will they in the future.
  ``Repeal and Replace'' is an empty slogan and is about as serious as 
the President-Elect's promise of ``somethingterrific.''
  Republicans have had seven years to produce and coalesce around an 
alternative to the ACA, and they totally failed.
  The reason for their failure is they are afflicted with Obama 
Derangement Syndrome that blinds them to the ACA's substantialand 
positive improvements in people's lives.
  Without the ACA, insurance companies could continue to make their own 
rules, and deny coverage based on a person's healthstatus or job, offer 
lousy benefits, and impose annual and lifetime limits.
  Without the ACA, seniors would still face the Part D donut hole and 
have to pay more for drugs, and parents would not beable to keep their 
kids on their plan until age 26.
  Without the ACA, 20 million people would not have gained coverage, 
and we would not have the lowest uninsured rate onrecord.
  If Republicans really thought they could match this record of 
success, they would have unveiled and campaigned on theiralternative 
plan in the last election or at least reveal it to the American people 
right now.
  It is immoral to put families, the health care system, or our economy 
at risk by repealing the ACA, hurting the economy,ballooning the 
deficit, and giving hundreds of billions of dollars in tax cuts to 
corporations and the wealthy.
  Mr. Chair, the constituents of the 18th Congressional District of 
Texas, which I am privileged to represent, are not buyingthe `Repeal 
and Replace' bill of goods that Republicans are selling because they 
know the Affordable Care Act, which theylovingly call ObamaCare, has 
brought peace of mind and security where before there was only worry 
and fear.
  Here are some of the ways the Affordable Care Act has made a positive 
difference to the residents of my congressionaldistrict:
  1. Coverage for the Previously Uninsured.
  Up to 193,000 individuals in the district who lack health insurance 
will have access to quality, affordable coverage withoutfear of 
discrimination or higher rates because of a preexisting health 
condition.
  2. Tax Credits to Make Insurance Affordable.
  Under the ACA, tax credits are available to assist individuals and 
families purchase the private health insurance they need.
  The amount of these tax credits range from $630 to $4,480 for 
individuals and from $3,550 to $11,430 for a family of four.
  This benefits as many as 446,850 constituents in my congressional 
district.
  3. Extra Benefits for Seniors.
  More than 4,100 seniors in my district receive prescription drug 
discounts worth an average of $828 per person.
  4. Extended Coverage for Young Adults.
  11,400 young adults in the district now have health insurance through 
their parents' plan.
  5. No Exorbitant Out-of-Pocket Expenses, Deductibles or Co-Pays.
  121,000 individuals in my district--including 23,000 children and 
50,000 women--now have health insurance that coverspreventive services 
without any co-pays, coinsurance, or deductible.
  6. Premium Rebates.
  113,000 individuals in my district are saving money due to ACA 
provisions that prevent insurance companies from spendingmore than 20% 
of their premiums on profits and administrative overhead.
  7. No Discrimination for Pre-Existing Conditions.
  In my district, up to 46,000 children with preexisting health 
conditions no longer can be denied coverage by healthinsurers.
  8. No Annual or Lifetime Caps on Coverage.
  153,000 individuals in my district now have insurance that cannot 
place lifetime limits on their coverage and no long faceannual limits 
on coverage.
  It is said often, Mr. Chair, but is no less true, that the federal 
budget is more than a financial document; it is anexpression of the 
nation's most cherished values.
  As the late and great former senator and Vice-President Hubert 
Humphrey said:

       The moral test ofgovernment is how that government treats 
     those who are in the dawn of life, the children; those who 
     are in the twilight of life,the elderly; and those who are in 
     shadows of life, the sick, the needy, and the handicapped.

  It is for this reason that in evaluating the merits of a budget 
resolution, it is not enough to subject it only to the testof fiscal 
responsibility.
  To keep faith with the nation's past, to be fair to the nation's 
present, and to safeguard the nation's future, the budgetmust also pass 
a ``moral test.''
  The Republican budget resolution fails both of these standards.
  Because the American people deserve to know exactly what ills 
Republicans have in store for them, I strongly oppose S. Con.Res. 3 and 
urge all Members to join me in voting against the reckless, cruel, and 
heartless measure that will do nothing toimprove the lives or well-
being of middle and working class families.
  Pamela Gross dreads repeal of Medicaid expansion. Still, millions of 
people like Gross, could face immediate effects. Whileher disability 
allows her access to Medicare coverage, she also relies on Medi-Cal, 
California's Medicaid program, to help payfor costs Medicare doesn't. 
Gross says she was insured before Obamacare became law. But her Medi-
Cal coverage, which she relieson to pay her monthly premiums and co-
pays, hung in the balance each year when she received a Supplemental 
Security Income costof living increase. The minor jump in pay 
threatened to push her out of eligibility for the program, which would 
leave herwithout the means to pay for a private insurance policy and 
the doctor visits and medications she says her life literallydepends 
on.
  ``I asked my doctor recently, with all that's going on would I make 
it without treatment?'' The doctor's answer: ``No,''Gross says.
  Because Obamacare expanded eligibility for Medicaid and increased the 
program's income limits, Gross no longer has to beconcerned each year 
that the cost-of-living increase she receives from her SSI income will 
throw her out of coverage. That wouldchange if Medicaid expansion is 
eliminated as part of the law's repeal.
  ``If they repeal I could completely lose eligibility,'' she says. ``I 
would die.''
  Mrs. BLACK. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentleman 
from Georgia (Mr. Ferguson), a new member of theBudget Committee.
  Mr. FERGUSON. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of the fiscal year 2017 
budget resolution.
  The need for this process can best be explained by a story I have 
been telling my colleagues.
  A little over 6 years ago, I lived in a pretty decent house. One day 
I heard a knock on the door, and before I knew

[[Page H496]]

it, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle had let a goat loose 
in my house. Now, for 6 years that goat has beenmessing in and 
destroying my house. I want to renovate my house, but before I can, I 
have to get the goat out of the housebefore it does any more damage. It 
makes no sense to start fixing up my house until I can get the goat 
out. Voting for thefiscal year `17 budget resolution gets this goat out 
of my house.
  Mr. Chairman, make no mistake: we must renovate our house; we must 
undo the Affordable Care Act. We can no longer as anation hold on to 
policies that rob us of our freedom of choice, that destroy family 
finances, that rob people of their jobs,and leave the most vulnerable 
with substandard care.
  Now is the time for a 21st century healthcare system that puts 
patients and doctors first and sends government regulatorsand 
rulemakers to the back row. No more 32 percent increase in Georgia 
premiums; no more having your doctor pulled away fromyou; and no more 
government mandates.
  This is not a return to the pre-ObamaCare status quo, but is a new 
approach to putting consumers in the driver's seat. Thefirst step in 
this process is to gut ObamaCare with this resolution, and I am honored 
to support it.
  Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Chairman, I will remind the gentleman that his vote 
today to repeal the Affordable Care Act will result in581,000 people 
from his State of Georgia losing their healthcare coverage, 71,000 
workers losing their jobs, and an economicloss of $39.4 billion in 
gross State product, over 5 years, for the State of Georgia.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from New York (Mr. 
Jeffries), a distinguished member of the BudgetCommittee.
  Mr. JEFFRIES. Mr. Chairman, this is a sad day in the history of this 
country as Republicans begin the process of destroyinghealth care in 
America.
  ``Repeal and replace'' is just a slogan. It is not a solution. For 
more than 6 years, we have been waiting for a credibleRepublican 
healthcare plan, and none has been forthcoming. All you have is smoke 
and mirrors, and the American people aregetting ready to get screwed.
  Under the so-called Republican plan, seniors will be forced to pay 
more for their medicine. Under the so-called Republicanplan, children 
with preexisting conditions, like pediatric cancer, will be at risk of 
being kicked off of their health plans orof being denied health 
coverage. Under the so-called Republican plan, young people in America 
will no longer be able to stay ontheir parents' health insurance 
through the age of 26. Under the so-called Republican plan, more than a 
million people who arereceiving drug treatment because of opioid 
addiction will be at risk of being denied that lifesaving care.
  Under the so-called Republican plan, premiums will go up, co-pays 
will go up, deductibles will go up; and the Americanpeople will be 
screwed. People in Michigan, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, Ohio--screwed. 
Seniors in Florida--screwed. People on thewest coast and on the east 
coast--screwed. People in Appalachia and rural America--screwed.
  The only folks who will benefit are the fat cats who are part of the 
healthcare cartel. The system, indeed, is rigged, andthe American 
people should pay attention as to who is jamming them up.
  Mrs. BLACK. Mr. Chairman, in response to the gentleman from New York, 
when he says we do not have a plan, I reference him toall of the plans 
that are here on the desk. He says we don't have a plan, but then he 
references all of the things that willhappen under the Republican plan. 
He can't have it both ways.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from Arkansas (Mr. 
Womack), who is a member of both the BudgetCommittee and the 
Appropriations Committee.
  Mr. WOMACK. I thank the distinguished chair of the Budget Committee 
for giving me some time to talk today. She is adistinguished person, a 
colleague, a classmate, and somebody I have the utmost respect for.
  Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of the House budget resolution and to 
recognize the very important first step we are takingin our country 
today regarding ObamaCare. By adopting this budget resolution, we will 
set into motion the repeal of theAffordable Care Act.
  Last week, on this very floor, the minority leader, Ms. Pelosi, stood 
here and called ObamaCare a magnificent success.Yet, since being sworn 
into office in 2011, I have heard just the opposite from my 
constituents. Every single day, I have heardthat ObamaCare is raising 
the cost of health care, is creating uncertainty in Arkansas, is 
hurting Americans, and that we needto replace it with real reforms that 
focus on the patient, not the government.
  This law is not just bad for patients and healthcare consumers. 
ObamaCare's onerous mandates and endless regulations arehitting 
industry across the board. It stifles business; it squelches private 
sector job growth; it hurts our economy. Let megive you an example.
  Mr. Chairman, Superior Linen Service, in my district, employs over 
100 people. Prior to the enactment of ObamaCare, SuperiorLinen Service 
recognized the importance of having a healthy workforce and was already 
providing quality health insurance to itsemployees, and it was able to 
manage its payroll insurance benefits in-house for the entire 60 years 
of its existence. After thepassage of the Affordable Care Act, Superior 
Linen Service could no longer manage the sheer amount of paperwork it 
took to provethat it was, in fact, complying with the law.
  Let me be clear. Thanks to ObamaCare, the company provided no new 
benefits, but had to outsource its payroll and managementat a cost of 
$100,000 a year. This is just one of many examples. This is an 
important day. I urge a ``yes'' vote on theresolution.

                              {time}  1145

  Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Chairman, I will remind my colleague that his vote 
today to repeal the Affordable Care Act will result234,000 people from 
his State of Arkansas losing their healthcare coverage, 28,000 workers 
losing their jobs, and an economicloss of $15.8 billion in gross State 
product over 5 years for the State of Arkansas.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from Illinois (Ms. 
Schakowsky), a member of the Energy and CommerceCommittee.
  Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Chair, I want to say right now I believe--and it 
will be true, you will see--that Republicans will regretthe repeal of 
ObamaCare.
  Hospitals in rural and underserved areas are panicking right now 
because they are finally getting paid through ObamaCare toserve low-
income people. Jobs will be lost. Those hospitals could close. Thirty 
million people will lose their benefits.
  I want to tell you, on the Energy and Commerce Committee, I have been 
hearing for years ever since ObamaCare passed, allthese horror stories 
that my Republican colleagues embrace as evidence that this thing isn't 
working. Never once have they beenwilling to sit down with us.
  We don't claim that the bill is perfect, but we know that there are 
millions and millions of people with preexistingconditions or who run 
out of insurance when they hit their lifetime caps. We know it has 
helped, and yet never has a Republicanbeen willing to sit down with us 
and craft amendments that would make this legislation better.
  Repeal means that the Republicans will make Americans sick again.
  Mrs. BLACK. Mr. Chairman, I would just like to note that it is 
ObamaCare that has, sadly, hurt these rural hospitals,healthcare 
providers, and people living in those rural areas. As a matter of fact, 
since January of 2010, there have been atleast 80 rural hospitals that 
have had to close. The damage has already been done.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentleman from Texas (Mr. 
Arrington), a freshmen on the Budget Committee.
  Mr. ARRINGTON. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support of S. Con. Res. 
3 that would begin the process to repeal ObamaCare.
  Our experimentation in the Soviet-style, central planning of our 
healthcare system has been an abject failure: ObamaCare hasfailed our 
middle and working class families who

[[Page H497]]

have seen an uncontrollable increase in deductibles and premiums; it 
hasfailed our providers who spent years pursuing their passion for 
healing our sick but now find themselves spending more timefilling out 
paperwork than caring for their patients; it has failed our small 
businesses that create 64 percent of the jobs inthis country.
  Although the pathway of ObamaCare has been paved with good 
intentions, it has led to a series of disastrous, 
unintendedconsequences. To use a medical analogy, ObamaCare has made 
America sick; and when America is sick, rural America is in the ICU.
  I represent 29 rural counties in west Texas, ag producers, oil and 
gas and renewable energy operators, community bankers,and community 
hospitals. Like many rural areas throughout the country, my district is 
feeding and clothing the American people,bolstering our economy, and 
strengthening our national security.
  While large hospitals also suffer under ObamaCare, community 
hospitals are simply unable to handle the crushing weight ofACA's 
shrinking reimbursements, regulatory burden, and unfunded mandates. 
Since ObamaCare was implemented, 80 rural hospitalshave closed and 600 
more are in danger of closing. Without access to quality health care, 
our hardworking families in middleAmerica are left high and dry.
  The CHAIR. The time of the gentleman has expired.
  Mrs. BLACK. Mr. Chairman, I yield an additional 15 seconds to the 
gentleman from Texas.
  Mr. ARRINGTON. Mr. Chairman, one of the greatest travesties of 
ObamaCare is not just the damage that it has done to oureconomy, but 
the destruction of a way of life of over 60 million Americans who call 
small town America their home. Whether it isproducing reliable and 
affordable energy or a safe and abundant supply of food, people from 
all over the country rely on ruralcommunities to make America great.
  We must repeal ObamaCare, restore market forces, and return to 
patient-centered care.
  Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Chairman, I will remind my colleague that his vote 
today to repeal the Affordable Care Act will result in1.8 million 
people from his State of Texas losing their healthcare coverage, 
175,000 workers losing their jobs, and an economicloss of $107 billion 
in gross State product over 5 years for the State of Texas.
  I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from Washington (Mr. Larsen), a 
distinguished member of the Transportation andInfrastructure Committee.
  Mr. LARSEN of Washington. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in opposition to 
this budget resolution that would begin the process ofrepealing the 
Affordable Care Act without a plan to replace it, and I rise on behalf 
of my constituents who are imploringCongress to save the Affordable 
Care Act.
  Luanne from Coupeville, Washington, wrote to me. She said:

       As someone with several seriouspreexisting conditions, I 
     could not get insurance coverage in the past. My husband and 
     I spent an incredible amount ofmoney--including retirement 
     savings and out-of-pocket dollars--for my care and 
     prescriptions. There were truly times when we hadto choose 
     food over medication.

  And without the ACA, Jennifer from Lynnwood told me that her best 
friend ``will be forced to work as many jobs as she can inorder to 
obtain money due to the costs of her pregnancy that will no longer be 
covered. . . . . She needs the Affordable CareAct, as do many 
Americans. Please, I beg you, do not get rid of it. . . . The 
Republicans in Congress do not understand how muchof us low-income 
Americans need this.''
  These are just two of the hundreds of Washingtonians who have 
contacted me over the past 2 weeks.
  Mr. Chairman, do not take away these lifesaving benefits from Luanne, 
Jennifer's friend, and the rest of my constituents.
  I urge my colleagues to oppose this bill.
  Mrs. BLACK. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Smucker), who is a new member of ourBudget Committee.
  Mr. SMUCKER. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of this resolution, 
which will be the first step to repealing ObamaCare.
  I, like so many of my colleagues, have heard from citizens all across 
my district in regard to the impact of this system onthem. I want to 
share a conversation I had recently with a constituent.
  Tim Hollinger called me. Tim and his wife, Phyllis, are residents of 
Mount Joy, Pennsylvania, in my home county ofLancaster. Tim is on 
Medicare, but Phyllis, who is self-employed, has a healthcare plan that 
she obtained through the ObamaCaremarketplace.
  Tim and Phyllis' annual income is $53,000 per year. Phyllis' 
healthcare premium is over $1,000 a month and carries a 
$2,700deductible. Let me repeat that. Phyllis' healthcare premium is 
over $1,000 per month. That is 23 percent of their combinedannual 
income.
  The CHAIR. The time of the gentleman has expired.
  Mrs. BLACK. Mr. Chair, I yield an additional 15 seconds to the 
gentleman from Pennsylvania.
  Mr. SMUCKER. Mr. Chair, now Phyllis receives a Federal subsidy that 
covers 35 percent of that monthly cost. She takes pridein the fact that 
she has never taken a government handout in her life.
  Now that she is on ObamaCare, the American taxpayers have to 
subsidize her health care. To Phyllis, that is not right. ToPhyllis, 
this is about her pride. She is not asking for a lot. She is simply 
asking that she have access to affordable healthcare that doesn't 
require the American taxpayers to help her pay for it.
  I look forward to working with my colleagues to fix our Nation's 
failed healthcare system.
  Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Chairman, I will remind my colleague that his vote 
today to repeal the Affordable Care Act will result479,000 people from 
his State of Pennsylvania losing their healthcare coverage, 173,000 
workers losing their jobs, and aneconomic loss of $76.5 billion over 5 
years in gross State product for the State of Pennsylvania.
  I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from California (Ms. Lee), a 
distinguished member of the Budget Committee.
  Ms. LEE. Mr. Chairman, I thank our ranking member for yielding and 
also for his steadfast commitment to protecting thehealth and well-
being of all Americans.
  Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong opposition to this resolution, which 
would advance the repeal of the Affordable Care Actwithout any 
replacement in sight.
  Let me be clear. This resolution would wipe away health care from 30 
million Americans and raise premiums for millions more.It would also 
create chaos through our community and our economy and our Nation. It 
would put the insurance companies back incharge.
  It is not just the Affordable Care Act that is on the chopping block. 
Republicans also want to cut women's reproductivehealth care. Once 
again, they want to defund Planned Parenthood, one of the Nation's 
leading providers of high-quality,affordable health care for women and 
families. Women would be denied breast cancer screenings and preventive 
health care.Community clinics in rural and urban communities would be 
devastated.
  We know that Planned Parenthood is one of the Nation's leading 
providers of high-quality, affordable health care for womenand their 
families. Denying access to healthcare providers such as Planned 
Parenthood will hurt women who need these servicesthe most: low-income 
women and women of color. That is why I offered an amendment to protect 
these critical services.Shamefully, the Rules Committee refused to make 
it in order and even allow for a debate on this floor.
  I also cosponsored the amendment with Representative Pocan and others 
within the Congressional Progressive Caucusopposing cuts to Medicare, 
Medicaid, and Social Security benefits. Republicans refused to allow a 
debate on this critical issueas well.
  The most vulnerable--the poor, seniors, and disabled individuals--
would be left to fend for themselves, and their lives wouldbe shattered 
through these Republican cuts.
  Mr. Chairman, we must stand up for the millions of people who have 
coverage because the Affordable Care Act really does savelives. It is a 
disgrace; Republicans continue to raise this war to kill the ACA 
without replacing it.
  Once again, it will hurt the most vulnerable. People will be sicker 
again.

[[Page H498]]

America will be sick again. This is amatter of life and death.
  Mrs. BLACK. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentleman 
from Florida (Mr. Gaetz), who is a freshman on ourBudget Committee.
  Mr. GAETZ. Mr. Chairman, lend me your ears. I come to bury ObamaCare, 
not to praise it. The evil that men do lives afterthem.
  This is the true legacy of the last 8 years: a doubling of the 
national debt and $4 trillion in additional spendingprojected through 
ObamaCare.
  What have my constituents gotten from ObamaCare? Higher taxes, higher 
premiums, unaffordable deductibles, crippling drugcosts, fewer choices, 
and more mandates.
  This resolution shows what will happen if we do nothing. Inaction 
will lead to $30 trillion in debt, the greatestgenerational theft the 
world has ever known.
  So it is past time to get the Federal Government out of the 
healthcare mandate business. Let people buy insurance acrossState 
lines; allow people to own their own healthcare decisions through 
health savings accounts; block-grant Medicaid to ourStates, our 
laboratories of democracy; and let's reinvigorate a Federal system that 
is promised by our Founders.
  The jobs data cited by the Democrats doesn't assume the positive 
economic benefits that come from ObamaCare repeal, including, according 
to the Congressional Budget Office, $200 billion in additional economic 
activity, morejobs, more opportunity, and more freedom. This is a 
flawed study that my friends across the aisle cite, and it is the 
Republicanresolution before this body that offers a better way.

  Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Chairman, I will remind my colleague that his vote 
today to repeal the Affordable Care Act will result in1.6 million 
people from his State of Florida losing their healthcare coverage, 
181,000 workers losing their jobs, and aneconomic loss of $90.4 billion 
in gross State product over 5 years in Florida.
  I yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from Maryland (Mr. Hoyer), the 
distinguished Democratic Whip.
  Mr. HOYER. Mr. Chairman, every American will be affected by this 
vote, not just the 20 million people who will lose theirinsurance 
immediately. Thirty million, in total, will lose their insurance. 
Everybody's premium will ultimately go up.Preexisting conditions will 
not be available. Seniors will pay more for prescription drugs. 25-, 
24-, 23-year-olds will bedropped from the insurance of their families.
  The fact of the matter is--the gentleman from Florida that just 
spoke--there is not a better way that has been proposed. Thereis some 
discussion about across State lines. There is some other discussion 
about health savings accounts, which is great if youhave the kind of 
salaries we have; but if you are an average American trying to support 
your family, getting additional funds toput into a health savings 
account is not available to you.
  Mr. Chairman, this budget resolution is an abdication of 
responsibility and duty. Rather than showing Republican spendingand 
revenue priorities, it is nothing more than a vehicle for expediting a 
repeal of the Affordable Care Act and takinginsurance coverage away 
from 30 million people.

                              {time}  1200

  Again, let me remind you it is hundreds of millions of people that 
will be adversely affected.
  Since taking the House majority, Republicans have held 65 votes on 
this floor to undo healthcare reforms that have broughtthe uninsured 
rate to its lowest in recorded history and banned discrimination and 
discriminatory practices, such as denyingcoverage to Americans with 
preexisting conditions or charging women higher rates than men simply 
because of their gender.
  Now our Republican colleagues want to repeal the Affordable Care Act 
without immediately replacing it, contrary to at least12 of their 
colleagues in the United States Senate--Republicans--saying that is not 
the right way to go. That is what thisresolution would do.
  By the way, they should have adopted this resolution last Congress by 
April 15. They didn't do so.
  This is not a real budget resolution. This is simply a device so that 
they can jam through repeal of the Affordable Care Actin the United 
States Senate contrary to the existing rules. It would come at a severe 
cost to our economy and our budgetsustainability.
  In addition to the 30 million who would lose their insurance, tens of 
millions more, as I have said, would see their costsgo up. A report by 
the nonpartisan Commonwealth Fund and Milken Institute found that the 
repeal would lead to the loss of 3million jobs, and the Committee for a 
Responsible Federal Budget found it would add $350 billion to deficits 
over the next 10years.
  Let us be clear, Mr. Chairman, a vote for this budget resolution is a 
vote to take health insurance away from 30 millionAmericans and 
adversely impact the health care of millions more.
  I urge my Republican colleagues who have serious concerns about our 
fiscal path and misgivings about repealing theAffordable Care Act 
without replacing it: let's lay down a marker that Congress should not 
rush headlong into this costly repealnot only in terms of dollars, but 
in terms of health security consequences for the American people.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge the House to vote ``no'' on this dangerous and 
destructive resolution.
  Mrs. BLACK. Mr. Chairman, I do want to note, once again, for my 
colleagues on the other side of the aisle, if they say wehave no plans, 
I want to reference them several plans that have been filed, and I will 
leave those here on the desk so they canpick those up at their 
convenience.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the distinguished gentleman 
from Texas (Mr. Poe).
  Mr. POE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, the Affordable Care Act is a 
collection of failed policies and many empty promises.
  The American people have spoken. They do not want ObamaCare's high-
cost, job-killing, conscious-violating healthcare system.Since the 
enactment of ObamaCare, almost 5 million Americans have lost their 
insurance plans and their own doctors. This is afar cry from the fake 
promises that were made on this House floor in the dark of the night 
when we were told: ``Pass the bill sothat we can figure out what is in 
it.''
  The American people are the ones paying for these failed promises. In 
fact, it is expected that in 2017, ObamaCare premiumswill grow by an 
average of 22 percent across America. ObamaCare is hurting individual 
citizens, and it is also hurting smallbusinesses. Out of 75 issues, 
small-business owners ranked the cost of health insurance as the number 
one problem they faced in2016.
  ObamaCare is neither affordable, and it is certainly not better care. 
We cannot afford ObamaCare. Health care should be adecision made by 
individuals in America, not by bureaucrats here in Washington, D.C. The 
repeal bill is the first step infinally correcting this huge 
legislative blunder. Replace ObamaCare with a free-market alternative 
that provides affordablehealth care to all Americans. Let Americans 
choose their health care.
  ObamaCare has the efficiency of the post office and the compassion of 
the IRS, and it is time to make America healthy.Repeal this government 
control of our health.
  And that is just the way it is.
  Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Chairman, I will remind my good friend that his vote 
today to repeal the Affordable Care Act will result in1.8 million 
people from his State of Texas losing their healthcare coverage, 
175,000 workers losing their jobs, and an economicloss of $107 billion 
in gross State product, over 5 years, in Texas.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from Florida (Ms. 
Castor), who is a distinguished member of theEnergy and Commerce 
Committee.
  Ms. CASTOR of Florida. Mr. Chairman, I am compelled to come to the 
floor this morning to oppose the Republican attempt topull the rug out 
from under American families.
  Why are we going to a repeal bill without a replacement?
  It is irresponsible. What you are doing is you are throwing American 
families into quicksand. Here is a dirty little secret:this is also a 
fiscally irresponsible move because this is likely to balloon the debt 
and the deficit.
  Now, what I hear from my families back home in Florida is that the 
Affordable Care Act has been a godsend to them, and thatincludes the 9 
million families that have private health

[[Page H499]]

insurance. The Affordable Care Act has provided vital 
consumerprotections to prevent them from being discriminated against 
for a preexisting condition or being canceled if they do get sick,and 
it has kept premium costs in check.
  We also have a lot of Floridians who depend on Medicare; and because 
of the ACA, Medicare is stronger. In 2015 alone, theaverage Medicare 
recipient has put about $1,000 back into their pocket because the ACA 
closes the doughnut hole.
  I urge the House to vote ``no.'' Don't throw American families into 
chaos and don't wreak havoc on our economy.
  Mrs. BLACK. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
Kansas (Mr. Marshall).
  Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support of today's 
resolution to repeal the Affordable Care Act.
  As a physician, I have lived the nightmare of the ACA for the past 6 
years. Because of ObamaCare, I know more physiciansleaving their 
practice this year than any other year. With $12,000 deductibles and 
annual premium spikes of over 50 and manytimes over 100 percent, 
ObamaCare has made health care truly unaffordable and unattainable for 
many, many people. In fact, itwould be irresponsible for Congress to 
sit back and watch the ACA continue its death spiral and bankrupt our 
country.
  As we begin to replace ObamaCare, we want to reassure Americans we 
will not pull the rug out from anyone. If you are on acurrent exchange 
policy or have preexisting conditions, we will have a period of 
transition and high-risk pools that willprovide you with quality, 
affordable alternatives.
  Like many others, my district sent me here to fix health care, and we 
intend to do just that.
  Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Chairman, I will remind my colleague that his vote 
today to repeal the Affordable Care Act will result in137,000 people 
from his State of Kansas losing their healthcare coverage, 19,000 
workers losing their jobs, and an economic lossof $10.5 billion in 
gross State product, over 5 years, for Kansas.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from Rhode Island 
(Mr. Cicilline), who is a distinguished member of theJudiciary 
Committee.
  Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Chairman, for 8 years, House Republicans have 
wrongly claimed that the Affordable Care Act will becatastrophic for 
hardworking Americans.
  Here are the facts: since its passage, the ACA has helped cover 20 
million previously uninsured Americans; 95 percent ofAmerica's children 
are now covered; almost 130 million Americans with preexisting 
conditions now have the peace of mind to knowthat they will not be 
denied health services; and healthcare costs have been growing at the 
slowest rate in 50 years.
  But as Republicans prepare to take control of the White House, it is 
clear they don't have an actual plan to replaceObamaCare. Not only will 
their repeal and displace plan cut off millions of Americans--men, 
women, and children--from quality,affordable health care, but it will 
also have devastating impacts on our economy.
  Repealing the Affordable Care Act will cause the loss of 2.6 million 
jobs, a majority of which will be non-health industryjobs. It is 
projected that my home State of Rhode Island will lose more than 12,000 
jobs.
  This budget resolution will not only increase prescription drug 
prices for our seniors, raise premiums and out-of-pocketexpenses for 
Americans who buy insurance, but will lead to significantly larger 
yearly deficits and contribute more than $9.5trillion in debt over the 
next decade.
  I urge my colleagues to oppose this budget resolution, to protect the 
American people's access to quality, affordable healthcare, and to vote 
``no.''
  Mrs. BLACK. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
Michigan (Mr. Mitchell), who is one of our freshmanMembers.
  Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Chairman, I rise to support the resolution to give 
relief to the millions of Americans who are strugglingto access health 
care due to the destructive impact of the Affordable Care Act. 
Americans were promised that, with the passageof the Affordable Care 
Act, costs for health insurance would decrease and patients could keep 
their plans and their doctors ifthey liked them. Americans have now 
seen the truth: massive increases in premiums, constantly rising 
deductibles and copays, andfewer plans with fewer providers.
  Just because an individual or a family has insurance does not mean 
they can access and afford health care. Health insurancemeans little if 
they cannot find a participating doctor or afford the deductible. In 
Michigan, premiums have risen over 17percent this year, and deductibles 
are up an average of $492.
  There is a plan. I will hand carry it over for you to read it. I 
suggest we not instill fear but, rather, we move forwardwith a better 
way to provide health insurance. Broken promises have led us to a 
broken healthcare system. We promise to fix itand, beginning today, we 
are going to do just that.
  Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Chairman, I will remind my colleague that his vote 
today to repeal the Affordable Care Act will result in618,000 people 
from his State of Michigan losing their healthcare coverage, 101,000 
workers losing their jobs, and an economicloss of $54 billion in gross 
State product, over 5 years, for Michigan.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentleman from Michigan 
(Mr. Levin), who is a distinguished member andformer chairman of the 
Ways and Means Committee.
  (Mr. LEVIN asked and was given permission to revise and extend his 
remarks.)
  Mr. LEVIN. Mr. Chairman, I just want to say to my colleague from 
Michigan: Hundreds of thousands of people are going to losetheir 
insurance under a plan that was agreed to by the Republican Governor, 
and I will send you the numbers in your district.
  Mr. Chairman, the Republican effort to repeal the ACA, causing 30 
million Americans to lose their health insurance, is builton a 
foundation of misrepresentations and falsehoods. Yesterday, the Speaker 
said the Affordable Care Act is collapsing. It isnot. Nationwide, 
enrollment is higher than it is has ever been, and the percentage of 
Americans without health insurance is atthe lowest level on record.
  What is collapsing is the time for Republicans to move beyond their 
rhetoric and come up with a plan. They say they willproduce a 
comprehensive replacement, but they have been saying that for 7 years.
  Mr. Neal is here. Seven years, Mr. Neal, we have been hearing that.
  Those files on the Republican desk--I wish you would raise them 
again--aren't a plan. They are a ploy.
  Republicans say repealing the Affordable Care Act will help people, 
and there is at least a sliver of truth to that claim.The GOP repeal 
bill will help millionaires, providing them an average tax cut of over 
$50,000 a year. At the same time, it willactually raise taxes on 
millions of moderate and middle-income families who will lose tax 
credits for purchasing healthinsurance.
  Mrs. BLACK. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentleman 
from Virginia (Mr. Garrett), who is one of ourfreshman Members.
  Mr. GARRETT. Mr. Chairman, I rise today to make a clarification 
because while I support this resolution, I oppose thedescription that 
some here have used. They are calling it a budget. This isn't a budget. 
It is a paper trail of crimes ourgovernment commits against the future 
of our Nation vis-a-vis overwhelming debt. We need to be honest. We are 
sitting on $20trillion in debt, and aside from starting the repeal of 
the unaffordable care act, this does nothing to address that.
  Reluctantly I will vote for it to repeal the monstrosity that is the 
unaffordable care act.
  We were told we need to pass the bill so that we could find out what 
was in it. Well, we found out what was in it. We sawpremiums skyrocket; 
we saw families lose their plans and their doctors, even the ones they 
liked and they wanted to keep; and wesaw businesses struggle. Now we 
are left in a position where we need to pass this resolution to get rid 
of what we found.
  Liberty and self-determination are the lifeblood of this Nation, and 
the Nation is terminally ill. Our debt is a cancer thatcontinues to 
grow; and like a cancer, it doesn't discriminate. It is colorblind, it 
is gender neutral, and it doesn't care aboutyour political affiliation 
or what State you are from. It is here, and it continues to grow.

[[Page H500]]

  Our children are being encumbered, packaged, and sold to the gallows 
by way of unprecedented debt. This is an unprecedentedtreatment, but if 
we continue down the ObamaCare unaffordable care act path that we are 
on, the results are guaranteed.
  Today's resolution provides treatment for some of the symptoms, but 
it is about time that we started getting to the rootcauses of the 
disease. The more government encroaches on the lives of its citizens, 
the more debt grows, the less our libertiescan breathe, and the sicker 
we become. I may be new here, but in Virginia we keep a balanced 
budget; and it is about time we gotserious about one in D.C.

                              {time}  1215

  I will vote to pass this here today, but I refuse to call it a 
budget. I refuse to ignore the problems the unaffordable careact was 
meant to address. Problems aren't political, solutions are, and we can 
provide a better way.
  Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Chairman, I will remind my colleague that his vote 
today to repeal the Affordable Care Act will result in327,000 people 
from his State of Virginia losing their healthcare coverage, 52,000 
workers losing their jobs, and an economicloss of $31 billion over 5 
years in gross State product for Virginia.
  Mr. Chairman, how much time remains?
  The CHAIR. The gentlewoman from Tennessee has 14\3/4\ minutes 
remaining. The gentleman from Kentucky has 14\3/4\ minutesremaining.
  Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
Vermont (Mr. Welch), a distinguished member of theEnergy and Commerce 
Committee.
  Mr. WELCH. Mr. Chairman, on probably the most important issue, we are 
having the dumbest debate. We say the healthcare billis good. You say 
it stinks.
  We think it is good because we think it is good that kids, until they 
are age 26, can stay on their parents' plan. We thinkit is good because 
people with preexisting conditions ought to have access to health care, 
and we think it is good that a personwho gets sick shouldn't lose their 
health care.
  You say it is bad, even though the plan was based on a Heritage 
Foundation initiative and adopted largely in Massachusettsby a 
Republican governor.
  Bottom line, you are the majority in the House; you are the majority 
in the Senate; and you have got the Presidency. Youhave got some 
responsibility to show us the beef. Where is the plan?
  Now, there is a lot of paper over there, but you haven't shown us a 
plan. And here is why: because when you put pen topaper, all hell is 
going to break loose on your side because you have to move beyond the 
rhetoric to figuring out how you aregoing to pay to keep our kids on 
our healthcare plan. You are going to figure out how to pay if we are 
going to let folks withpreexisting conditions have health care.
  Those don't solve themselves, and you don't have a plan. We are 
entitled, the American people are entitled, to have it.
  The CHAIR. Members are reminded to address their remarks to the 
Chair.
  Mrs. BLACK. Mr. Chairman, it is now my honor to yield 1\1/2\ minutes 
to the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. Rodney Davis),one of the leaders of 
our conference.
  Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Chairman, ObamaCare is not working. 
We know this because the average increase for plans inIllinois was 
between 45 and 55 percent this year. As a matter of fact, a good friend 
of mine had an 87 percent increase.
  We know this because millions of Americans who were told they could 
keep their health insurance were kicked off their plans.We know it is 
not working because 31 million people are underinsured, meaning they 
can't afford to use the insurance they have.Deductibles are simply too 
high.
  It is not enough to judge this law simply by the number of people who 
are insured, since it mandates people buy insuranceanyway. We must 
remember the people paying premiums that continue to double and then 
have a deductible so high that it willnever be reached.
  That is not success. That is a problem for hardworking taxpayers, 
many of whom don't qualify for subsidies but were forcedoff their 
previous plans because they didn't meet the standards set by ObamaCare 
and now can't afford the plan they are mandatedto buy.
  We know it is not working because people in a third of our counties 
in the U.S. only have one insurance provider to choosefrom. ObamaCare 
is collapsing on itself.
  Some say: Why not work to fix it? I did. We did. We passed my Hire 
More Heroes Act. It helps small businesses, helps ourheroes. But we 
have to begin today to fix the bill itself.
  To know why this process is needed, let's remember how we got here. 
This bill was rushed through Congress. It then had20,000 pages of 
regulations just for that one bill.
  But taking this first step to repeal it should not be mistaken for 
supporting the status quo before the ACA was put inplace. We have a 
plan. We are going to cover preexisting conditions. Because my wife is 
a cancer survivor, we have to do that.
  Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Chairman, I will remind my colleague that his vote 
today to repeal the Affordable Care Act will result in850,000 people 
from his State of Illinois losing their healthcare coverage, 114,000 
workers losing their jobs, and an economicloss of $66 billion in gross 
State product over 5 years for Illinois.
  I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr. 
Neal), the distinguished ranking member of the Ways andMeans Committee.
  Mr. NEAL. Mr. Chairman, I want to tell you that the last speaker said 
this was rushed through Congress. It took 2 years towrite this 
legislation. Even by congressional standards, this was not rushed 
through Congress.
  We have waited 7 years to hear the alternative, and the gentlewoman 
from Tennessee has all of these plans over there, andshe says: we have 
got plans right here. How about one plan that we might have a chance to 
focus on?
  They have had the luxury of saying: we are going to do a better job 
without telling us what the better job entails.
  The Governor of Massachusetts recently wrote to our delegation and to 
the leadership in the House and said: During the ACArepeal-replace 
deliberations, it is important that coverage gains, patient protections 
and market stability be maintained.
  Let me give you some numbers from Massachusetts. 97.2 percent of the 
residents of Massachusetts have health care. 100percent of the children 
in Massachusetts now have health care.
  This is an effort at rhetoric. We want to hear what the plan is. We 
want to understand what the alternative is. We want toknow precisely 
what is going to be included and, just as importantly, what will be 
excluded from the benefits that thisAffordable Care Act has given to 
the American people.
  Twenty-two million Americans now have healthcare insurance who didn't 
have it. Nine percent of the American people arewithout adequate health 
care. We should be fixing that.
  The CHAIR. The time of the gentleman has expired.
  Mr. YARMUTH. I yield the gentleman an additional 15 seconds.
  Mr. NEAL. I have heard this, in the 29 years I have been in Congress, 
time and again. Till an honorable effort is putforward, you know what 
the Republicans should be saying to us right now? Let's get on, 
together, with making it all work,instead of saying repeal and replace. 
How empty is that rhetoric?
  Mrs. BLACK. Mr. Chairman, it is my distinct honor to yield 1 minute 
to the gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr. Ryan), who wasthe chair of our 
Budget Committee, our Ways and Means Committee, and now he is the 
Speaker of the House.
  Mr. RYAN of Wisconsin. My colleagues, I rise to urge our colleagues 
in the House to support this resolution, and let me tellyou why.
  This provides Congress with the legislative tools that we need to 
repeal and replace ObamaCare. This is a critical firststep toward 
delivering relief to Americans who are struggling under this law.
  In the weeks ahead, several steps will be taken to provide relief. 
Some steps will be taken by this body. Some steps will betaken by the 
new administration, including, after he is confirmed as HHS Secretary, 
our own colleague from Georgia (Mr.Price).

[[Page H501]]

  Our goal is a truly patient-centered system, which means more options 
to choose from, lower costs, and greater control overyour coverage. And 
as we work to get there, we will make sure that there is a stable 
transition period so that people don't havethe rug pulled out from 
under them; so that this will be a thoughtful, step-by-step process, 
and we welcome ideas from bothsides of the aisle.
  But today, I can't help but think back to, when we were debating this 
law in 2010, what was said at the time. I was a memberof the minority 
then. I stood right here and pleaded with the majority not to do this. 
Don't take something so personal likeyour health care and subject it to 
a Big Government experiment. Don't do something so arrogant and so 
contrary to our foundingprinciples.
  But they pushed it all the way through, making all kinds of promises. 
People were promised that their premiums would godown, but, instead, 
they are skyrocketing. Look at the new premium increases announced just 
this year: Kansas, 42 percentincrease in their premiums; Illinois, 43 
percent; Pennsylvania, 53 percent; Nebraska, 51 percent; Alabama, 58 
percent;Minnesota, 59 percent; Tennessee, 63 percent increase in 
premiums; Oklahoma, 69 percent increase this year in premiums; 
Arizona,116 percent increase in their premiums.
  People were promised: if you like your plan, you can keep it. Well, 
guess what? That was rated the lie of the year thatyear. People lost 
their plans.
  People were promised all sorts of choices. You will have all these 
great menus of choices to choose from. A third of all thecounties in 
America today, you get one choice. Five whole States, one insurer. If 
you have one choice, that is not a choice,that is a monopoly.
  My colleagues, this experiment has failed. This law is collapsing 
while we speak. We have to step in before things getworse. This is 
nothing short of a rescue mission.
  By taking this step today, we are doing what is right. We are 
stepping in and stopping the collapse from doing more harm tothe 
working families of America, to bring the kind of relief and bring the 
kind of solutions that we need to really achieve thenoble goal here.
  Everyone in America should have access to affordable health care, 
including people with preexisting conditions. This is whatwe want to 
achieve, but that is not what is happening under ObamaCare. The law is 
collapsing. The insurers are pulling out.People can't afford it. The 
deductibles are so high it doesn't even feel like you have got 
insurance in the first place.
  This is a rescue mission. This is a necessary move, and I urge all of 
our colleagues to do what is right because the time isurgent. On top of 
this, to my colleagues, we need to keep our promise that we made to the 
American people, and this helps us dojust that.
  Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Chairman, I will remind the Speaker that his vote 
today to repeal the Affordable Care Act will result in211,000 people 
from his State of Wisconsin losing their healthcare coverage, 46,000 
workers losing their jobs, and an economicloss of $25.7 billion in 
gross State product over 5 years in Wisconsin.
  It gives me great pleasure now to yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman 
from California (Ms. Pelosi), the distinguishedDemocratic leader and 
architect of the Affordable Care Act.
  Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman for yielding. I am so 
proud of him and his leadership as the ranking memberon the Budget 
Committee.
  I am so sorry that the Speaker left the floor because I have some 
very good news for him. Clearly, he does not understandwhat the 
Affordable Care Act has brought to our country in terms of expanding 
benefits, lowering costs, and expanding the accessof many more people 
to the promise of our founders, of life, liberty, and the pursuit of 
happiness, a healthier life, and thefreedom to pursue their happiness.
  I understand why the Speaker may want to concentrate on some 
mythology that he presented about the Affordable Care Act,because he is 
not going to focus on what this bill on the floor does today, and the 
Republican budget. It does not create moregood-paying jobs, or raise 
wages. It does not invest in infrastructure to rebuild our Nation.

  The Republican plan does not invest in the education of our children 
or the lifetime learning of working people. It does nothelp Americans 
find balance between work and family. It does not reduce the deficit. 
In fact, it increases the deficit. And itdoes not seek to drain the 
swamp of secret money from our elections.
  Instead, the Republicans are feeding their ideological obsession with 
repealing the ACA and dismantling the health andeconomic security of 
hardworking families.
  We all know that a budget should be a statement of our values. What 
is important to us as a nation should be reflected inour budget 
proposals. I always say: Show me your values, show me your budget.
  Well, you heard me say some of what this budget does not do. As we 
get further into the next stage of the budget, we willsee that what 
their budget does is just broaden, widen the disparity in income in our 
country, give tax breaks to the high end.And part of their tax breaks 
for the high end is to repeal the Affordable Care Act so they can 
eliminate the tax on those whoare helping to fund the Affordable Care 
Act.
  So let me just talk about the Affordable Care Act for a while, 
because one of the things that the public should know is thatthe ACA, 
Medicare, and Medicaid, are now wed. If you mess with the ACA, it 
directly impacts these other important initiatives,Medicare and 
Medicaid.
  The Republicans have never supported Medicare. They opposed it at its 
origin and, over time, continued to oppose it.

                              {time}  1230

  In the nineties, their Speaker, Newt Gingrich, said Medicare should 
wither on the vine. Their Speaker, Paul Ryan, hasin his budget removing 
the guarantee of Medicare for our seniors. Remove the guarantee. That 
means you get a voucher and you goshop for Medicare in this nonexistent 
health plan that they put forth.
  Republicans talk about how they are going to repeal and replace. It 
is interesting illustratively, but not realistic interms of the fact 
that, for 6 years, they have had a chance to propose an alternative. We 
have seen nothing.
  What we have seen is cut and run. They want to cut benefits and run. 
They want to cut savings and run. They want to cutaccess and run. They 
want to cut Medicare and run. They want to cut Medicaid and run. The 
list goes on and on. They want to cutjobs. We will lose 3 million jobs 
if they have their way with their nonexistent cut-and-run plan on the 
Affordable Care Act.
  Let's talk about the relationship between ACA and Medicare and 
Medicaid. Hospitals will be devastated under the ACA repealbecause they 
will be left with uncompensated care.
  One of the challenges to hospitals was that they must care for people 
who come in and don't have the ability to pay. Withthe Affordable Care 
Act, we now take care of that. That alleviates the cost to corporate 
America or those who are providinghealth benefits to their workers, 
adding between $1,000 and $3,000 a year per policy because they are 
carrying the uncompensatedcare cost. The Affordable Care Act alleviates 
that.
  The reality is, as Mr. Neal, our new ranking member on the Ways and 
Means Committee, has said, Medicaid is now a healthprogram that crosses 
the economic spectrum. It is not just for the poor. People think of 
Medicaid as a poor peopleinitiative--no. It enables mothers to work 
their way out of poverty by providing affordable coverage for their 
children--yes.
  It enables people with disabilities to get the care needed to live 
and work in the community, and it provides criticalnursing home care 
for middle class elderly who have spent down their savings and have no 
other alternatives. As Mr. Nealsays, Grandma is going to be living in 
the guest room or in the attic or in the basement if you cannot have 
nursing home care.
  This is very important to families because we want a budget that 
enables people to have good-paying jobs, increase theirpaycheck so that 
they can afford their home, address the aspirations of their children, 
and have a dignified retirement. If theyhave to care for their aging 
parents, they do less for

[[Page H502]]

their children. This assault on Medicaid is an assault on thefinancial 
stability of families across the board, whatever their age.
  Furthermore, Medicaid is one of best tools to fight addiction. We 
made a big deal about our opioid legislation. Americanswho previously 
did not have access to health care and, therefore, self-medicated with 
opioids and other painkillers are able toaccess diagnosis, treatment, 
and pain management. Medicaid provides real care for the addiction and 
underlying condition to turnfor the better for individuals and their 
families and the community. The list goes on and on.
  The jobs issue. In most of your communities, healthcare providers, 
hospitals, et cetera, are the biggest employers. Theywon't be anymore. 
Millions of jobs will be lost.
  Mr. Pallone, our ranking member on Energy and Commerce, another 
committee of jurisdiction, keeps making that point. Whyare you being, 
he says, ideological about this when the practical effect is about the 
economic security of our families? I thankMr. Pallone for that.
  Mr. Bobby Scott, the ranking member on the Education and the 
Workforce Committee shows what happens to States if youoverturn the 
Affordable Care Act. In his own State of Virginia, he can give 
testimony to the increased cost to the State or lackof meeting the 
healthcare needs of constituents.
  The ACA guards and strengthens the health care and economic security 
of every American, no matter where he or she getshealth insurance. It 
delivers transformational progress in terms of coverage, quality, and 
cost.
  Much has been said about the fact that more than 20 million people 
now have access to affordable health care. This is awonderful and 
remarkable thing, but that is only part of the story.
  Every American who has access to health care benefits from this. Most 
Americans receive their health benefits in theworkplace. If you do, you 
now cannot be discriminated against because of a preexisting medical 
condition.
  You cannot be discriminated against if you are a woman. No longer is 
being a woman a preexisting medical condition, whichmeans you paid more 
if you are a woman.
  No longer can the insurance companies levy lifetime limits for a 
preexisting condition that you may have or even for thecare that you 
are getting on a new basis. The list goes on and on.
  Do you know how many people have a preexisting medical condition? 
There are 100 million families affected by preexistingconditions, such 
as if your child is born prematurely.
  I, myself, have five children. Long ago, insurance companies said to 
me: You are a poor risk because you have had fivechildren. I said: I 
thought that was a sign of my strength. I didn't know that you were 
measuring it as a weakness.
  Any excuse would have done, but not with the Affordable Care Act. It 
stands there as a pillar of economic and healthsecurity. It stands 
there as a pillar of economic security like Social Security, Medicare, 
and Medicaid, which, again, theRepublicans and Newt Gingrich opposed in 
the 1990s and said would wither on the vine. In his budget, Paul Ryan 
takes awaythe guarantee. But it is a pillar of economic and health 
security.
  So the proposal today increases the deficit, does not create 
jobs,undermines the health security of the American people, and does 
not do much in any regard to address the challenges I posed inthe 
beginning. It is no wonder they want to talk about the Affordable Care 
Act. They have nothing to recommend in their budgetresolution.

  The GOP's repeal plan will raise premiums. Mr. Chairman, the rate of 
growth of healthcare costs in our country has beengreatly diminished by 
the Affordable Care Act. In the more than 50 years that they have been 
measuring the rate of growth, ithas never been slower than now.
  Repeal will create chaos that will echo in the health coverage and 
costs of every American. Chaos is the order of the dayfor them.
  The American people will not be dragged back to the days when an 
illness or injury meant financial ruin, that you might notget a job 
because someone in your family was ill and was going to raise the cost 
of health care in a company that might hireyou, that you could lose 
your home. Most bankruptcies spring because of not being able to pay 
medical bills.
  In short, we will not allow the Republicans to make America sick 
again. I urge a ``no'' vote on this unfortunate resolution.
  Mrs. BLACK. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentleman 
from New York (Mr. Faso), one of our newest Members.
  Mr. FASO. Mr. Chairman, I thank the new chairman of the Budget 
Committee for yielding.
  Mr. Chairman, I have listened to the debate and I understand the 
difficulty that both sides have with fixing this system.
  We clearly believe the system needs to be repealed and replaced. 
Moreover, the system needs to be reformed. And there isperhaps no 
better prominent Democrat in this country who has made the case for 
reforming this system. I quote former PresidentBill Clinton, who said 
just last October:

       So you have got this crazy system where, all of asudden, 25 
     million more people have health care and then the people who 
     are out there busting it, sometimes 60 hours a week,wind up 
     with their premiums doubled and their coverage cut in half. 
     It's the craziest thing in the world.

  President Bill Clinton.
  Mr. Chairman, this is just the first step in terms of fixing this 
problem. The taxes, the premium increases, the loss ofcoverage, the 
small businesses who have been priced out of the market, the 
discouragement of employment in our country becauseof the costs that 
are imposed on the business sector through the ACA have to be fixed; 
they have to be addressed. Today is justthe first step in addressing 
that.
  Later, we will have regulatory changes that come from the Department 
of Health and Human Services. More importantly, we willall have to come 
back here to work out a new plan to fix it.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to vote for this resolution.
  Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Chairman, I will remind my colleague that his vote 
today to repeal the Affordable Care Act will result in939,000 people 
from his State of New York losing their healthcare coverage, 131,000 
workers losing their jobs, and an economicloss of $89.7 billion in 
gross State product over 5 years in New York.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentlewoman from 
California (Ms. Maxine Waters), the distinguished rankingmember of the 
Financial Services Committee.
  Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California. Mr. Chairman, I rise to oppose this 
budget, which is designed to repeal--notreplace--ObamaCare.
  I am adamant about this because of what I have witnessed all of my 
life. I am going to share with you--and some of you mayhave never heard 
of these things--that I have watched people die from preventable 
diseases.
  I have watched, over the years, from the time I was a child, where 
people had home remedies. They didn't have anyprescription drugs.
  I watched as my great-grandmother was in pain, in tears, because of 
arthritis and rheumatism. We had to rub her down withsomething called 
liniment.
  I have watched men get up and try to go to work with pneumonia. They 
tried to heal pneumonia with what was known as hottoddies.
  I have watched as children have died. Little children used to walk 
around with little bags around their neck with somethingin it called 
asfidity that was supposed to protect them from harm. They had 
pneumonia. They had colds. That is all they had.They didn't have a 
doctor. They died from preventable diseases.
  Now we have 20 million more people who are insured under this 
healthcare plan. This is a healthcare plan for all Americans.
  The Republicans will tell you that, yes, they are going to give you 
something better, but they have been saying this for 8years. They have 
been after what is known as ObamaCare for 8 years. Why don't they have 
a remedy? Why don't they have a plan?Why don't they have anything?
  They didn't have anything when they started to attack ObamaCare, they 
don't have anything today, and they are not going tohave anything 
better than the ACA.

[[Page H503]]

  

  Mrs. BLACK. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Chairman, I want to read the names of some of the groups that 
have written to us in support of S. Con. Res. 3. There aremore than 35 
names on here, but I am going to read off some that we would recognize 
very quickly:
  The American Center for Law and Justice, Association of Mature 
American Citizens, Citizens Against Government Waste,Concerned Women 
for America, Health Benefits Group, Independent Women's Voice, Medical 
Device Manufacturers Association,National Association of Manufacturers, 
National Association of Wholesaler-Distributors, National Restaurant 
Association,National Retail Federation, National Taxpayers Union, 
Society for Human Resource Management, and the U.S. Chamber of 
Commerce.

  I just want to extract one paragraph out of the U.S. Chamber's letter 
that they have written:

       The U.S. Chamber of Commerce supports S. Con. Res. 3, the 
     concurrent resolution setting forth the congressional budget 
     for2016, an initial step toward making critical improvements 
     to the American healthcare system.''

  I think that you can see that not only do our constituents support a 
change, but also these companies around the country.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Chairman I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentleman 
from Virginia (Mr. Scott), the distinguished rankingmember of the 
Education and the Workforce Committee.
  Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to this 
budget resolution and its intent to compromise the healthinsurance of 
all Americans.
  Republicans continue to pursue the repeal of the Affordable Care Act, 
root and branch, despite the fact that there is nocredible plan to deal 
with the chaos that this repeal will create.
  Thirty million Americans will lose their insurance, the vast majority 
being working families. There is no plan to protectthe other Americans 
who have enjoyed improved consumer protections and benefits.
  Although the rates have gone up, they have gone up at half the rate 
that they had been going up before ObamaCare, and mostof those in the 
marketplace don't even have to pay those increased prices because of 
increased tax credits.

                              {time}  1245

  When Republicans talk about repeal and replace, the only thing 
guaranteed is the repeal part. Republicans have shown littleinterest in 
producing an alternative. We have heard lots of complaints, but we have 
not seen a plan that will make things anybetter.
  Remember, when Medicare was created, most of the Republicans in 
Congress voted ``no.'' Republicans in the House have votednumerous 
times, over 60 times, to repeal some or all of the Affordable Care Act 
without proposing a credible alternative, andnow we have some vague 
ideas but no plan to deal with the total chaos that will be created if 
ObamaCare is repealed.
  I urge my colleagues to save the health and economic security of all 
Americans by defeating this resolution.
  Mrs. BLACK. Mr. Chairman, what I would like to do now is to read some 
of the broken promises that have occurred through theAffordable Care 
Act.
  Here is one that I think we will all recognize: ``That means that no 
matter how we reform health care, we will keep thispromise to the 
American people: If you like your doctor, you will be able to keep your 
doctor, period.'' Those are remarks bythe President at the annual 
conference of the American Medical Association back on June 15, 2009.
  Here is another one: ``I will sign a universal health care bill into 
law by the end of my first term as president that willcover every 
American and cut the cost of a typical family's premium by up to $2,500 
a year.'' This was in a speech on June 23,2007.
  Here is another: ``You should know that once we have fully 
implemented, you're going to be able to buy insurance through apool so 
that you can get the same good rates as a group that if you're an 
employee at a big company you can get right now--whichmeans your 
premiums will go down.'' Which we know has absolutely not happened. 
These were remarks that were made by thePresident at a campaign event 
on July 16, 2012.
  Here is another one, remarks made by the President after a meeting 
with the Senate Democrats on December 15, 2009:``Whatever ideas exist 
in terms of bending the cost curve and starting to reduce costs for 
families, businesses, and government,those elements are in this bill.'' 
As we know today, those elements have not come to fruition.
  Another: ``So this law means more choice, more competition, lower 
costs for millions of Americans.'' These were remarks bythe President 
on the Affordable Care Act and the government shutdown on October 1, 
2013.
  Another: ``In my mind the Affordable Care Act has been a huge 
success, but it's got real problems.'' This came from JonathanChait, 
``Five Days That Shaped a Presidency,'' on October 2, 2016.
  The last one that I will read to you: ``I'm willing to look at other 
ideas to bring down costs. . . .'' These were remarksby the President 
in the State of the Union Address on January 25, 2011.
  In 2013, PolitiFact rated this the number one lie of the year. At 
publication, PolitiFact found that there were at least 37instances when 
President Obama made this vow to the American people. I can say that, 
as we look at these statements that weremade, these are not statements 
that have come true.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentleman 
from New Jersey (Mr. Pallone), the distinguishedranking member of the 
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
  Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Chair, I have listened to every Republican who spoke 
during this budget debate, and I am convinced theywill repeal the ACA 
and run. There will never be a replacement because they don't have the 
votes for it. The Republicans areideologues. They don't believe we 
should regulate insurance companies or help people pay for their 
premiums, so they can neversupport a replacement plan that would do 
these things.
  The ACA is a market-based plan to deal with the healthcare crisis 
that we faced 8 years ago. More and more people didn'thave health 
insurance. Insurance companies wouldn't sell them health insurance if 
they had a preexisting condition like cancer.People were paying more 
and more out of pocket, and the fact of the matter is that we stepped 
in in a practical way, not becausewe were ideologues, because we were 
looking at the situation practically to help people.
  What did we do? We provided 20 or 30 million people who didn't have 
insurance with insurance. For those who had healthinsurance through 
their employer, we guaranteed them a good benefit package, and we 
limited their out-of-pocket costs. We lookedat this practically because 
we are trying to help the American people. We were not ideologues. We 
didn't care about whether youwere on the left or the right.
  But what the Republicans are doing today is really a farce. They 
don't care about the average American. They don't careabout all these 
people who have insurance now who didn't have it before, about the 
benefits that they are getting, that theirout-of-pocket costs have been 
limited. No. They are just ideologues. They want to repeal this. They 
have no intention of everreplacing it, in my opinion, and they want to 
go back to the good old days when the insurance companies controlled 
the market.That is what we are going to have. Repeal and run, that is 
what you are doing.
  Mrs. BLACK. Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
North Carolina (Mr. Price), a distinguished member ofthe Committee on 
Appropriations.
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong 
opposition to this sham Republican budget resolution.
  After wringing their hands for the last 8 years about debt and 
deficits, today's resolution makes clear Republicans careabout fiscal 
discipline only when it is a Democratic President they are dealing 
with. This budget resolution would add $9.5trillion to the debt

[[Page H504]]

over the next 10 years. It has only one purpose: to provide for the 
eventual repeal of the AffordableCare Act, but it would ruin our fiscal 
health as well.
  Of course, the ACA was fully paid for by Democrats with new revenue 
and with cost-containment measures. Nonpartisan budgetexperts say that 
repealing the ACA would actually increase the deficit by $350 billion. 
So the hypocrisy of our Republicancolleagues on this issue is simply 
breathtaking, even by Washington standards.
  Of course, repeal of ACA wouldn't just blow a hole in the budget, it 
would: destabilize the insurance market and causepremiums to skyrocket; 
eliminate insurance coverage for 30 million Americans, including 4 
million children; raise taxes on themiddle-class; burden local and 
rural hospitals with more uncompensated care; eliminate Medicaid 
benefits for millions ofvulnerable citizens; and abolish vital patient 
protections, including the provision that stopped insurance companies 
fromdiscriminating against those with preexisting condition.
  After more than 6 years, moreover, we are still waiting for that 
comprehensive Republican plan to replace the ACA. Newsflash: they don't 
have one.
  The CHAIR. The time of the gentleman has expired.
  Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Chairman, I yield the gentleman an additional 15 
seconds.
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. They simply don't have one. Rather than 
work with Democrats to improve the ACA, Republicanscontinue to put 
their own political ideology over the health and well-being of the 
Americans we are all pledged to serve.
  I urge all Members to forcefully reject this budget resolution.
  Mrs. BLACK. Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
Washington (Ms. Jayapal), a distinguished memberof the Committee on the 
Budget.
  Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong opposition to this budget 
resolution. It begins the gutting of the AffordableCare Act, stripping 
health care for millions of working families across the Nation, 
including over three-quarters of a millionin my home State of 
Washington.
  Here is the bottom line: This repeal will put into chaos small 
businesses, hospitals, and community health centers. I haveone of those 
in Seattle called the International Community Health Services, which 
provides culturally appropriate healthservices to anyone in need. 
Recently, an elderly woman at ICHS shared her fears about the ACA 
repeal. She and her husband, aheart attack survivor who went through 
bypass surgery, rely on Medicare and Medicaid for affordable health 
services. They havean annual joint income, Mr. Chairman, of $14,000, 
and they would be unable to afford quality care if the ACA repeal 
happens and,let's be clear, with absolutely no better plan to replace 
it.
  Mr. Chairman, the budget resolution is a moral document. It does 
translate our values into commitments, and it should tellthe world what 
the United States stands for. Looking at this budget resolution, I 
cannot help but conclude that our moralcompass will be broken if we 
pass this resolution. I urge my colleagues to oppose this immoral 
budget resolution.
  Mrs. BLACK. Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentlewoman 
from New York (Ms. Velazquez), the rankingmember of the Committee on 
Small Business.
  Ms. VELAZQUEZ. I rise in strong opposition to this resolution. Mr. 
Chairman, if Republicans go forward with thisplan to dismantle the 
Affordable Care Act, 30 million Americans will lose health insurance. 
In New York State alone, 1.6 millionof our neighbors--who gained 
coverage through ACA--will lose their health insurance and will see 
their health insurance takenaway, and 2.7 million New Yorkers who have 
enrolled in Medicaid could lose coverage.
  But this is not just about Medicaid, and it is not just about who 
obtained coverage through the exchanges. This is about theyoung person 
just out of college who can stay on their parents' insurance until they 
turn 26, giving them time to secureemployment and coverage on their 
own. It is about patients with preexisting conditions who, until the 
ACA, were blocked fromsecuring quality medical insurance. It is about 
women who have faced gender discrimination in the insurance market. 
These arethe people Republicans will harm with their irresponsible 
attack on our healthcare system.
  Now, let me also note this: the Republican slogan, repeal and 
replace, is a sham. What are they going to replace the ACAwith? They 
have never, not once, put together a realistic, defensible plan to 
replace the ACA. Their plan should be calledrepeal and displace because 
it will displace millions of Americans from their health coverage. 
Reject repeal and displace. Vote``no'' on this bill.
  Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mrs. BLACK. Mr. Chairman, I have no other speakers, and I reserve the 
balance of my time to conclude the debate of thebudget resolution after 
the Joint Economic Committee has finished its debate.
  The CHAIR. The gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Tiberi) and the gentlewoman 
from New York (Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney) eachwill control 15 minutes on 
the subject of economic goals and policies.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Ohio.
  Mr. TIBERI. Mr. Chairman, it is a pleasure for me to be here in my 
role as chairman of the Joint Economic Committee. I amalso pleased to 
have a couple of our new Members here today.
  I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. LaHood), a new 
member of the Joint Economic Committee.
  Mr. LaHOOD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of this budget 
resolution as a first step in the process to repeal andreplace 
ObamaCare. It is undeniable that ObamaCare has failed. It has broken 
promise after promise to the American people.
  Constituents in my district in central Illinois are watching their 
premiums skyrocket by an average of 15 percent. Thischart next to me 
here shows, all across the country in State after State, premiums have 
skyrocketed.Citizens also face deductibles that are so high that they 
try to get by without going to a doctor.

  One constituent from Roseville, Illinois, whose insurance costs have 
gone up 75 percent, stated to me recently: ``This iscrazy. Almost half 
of my paycheck goes to insurance. How do they expect us to afford 
this?''
  These burdensome costs stifle families and our small businesses' 
ability to participate in and help grow our economy. Wehave a mandate 
from the American people to fix this broken system and to rescue 
citizens from escalating healthcare costs.

                              {time}  1300

  The goal is not to pull the rug out from underneath anyone. In fact, 
we are working to provide a stable transition tobetter, more affordable 
health care. We must have something that is economically sustainable 
and fiscally responsible, somethingthat actually works.
  I look forward to working with my colleagues to replace ObamaCare 
with a system grounded in economic reality--a market-driven, consumer-
centered healthcare system that provides Americans with more choices, 
lower costs, and greater flexibility.That is why we are working on a 
replacement system that will expand consumer choice through health care 
focused on their needs;a system that will spur innovation in health 
care; attract new doctors and healthcare providers; and protect 
patients withpreexisting conditions.
  Mr. Chairman, we must help Americans gain access to insurance they 
can afford. Passing this legislation is one step towardshelping people 
and fulfilling our promise to the American people.
  I urge my colleagues to support this resolution. We owe it to our 
citizens.
  Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself 
such time as I may consume.
  Here we are more than 3 months into fiscal year 2017, debating a 
budget which is not really a budget resolution. Even themajority admits 
it is nothing more than a shell to help them repeal the Affordable Care 
Act. It doesn't contain any way to growjobs and it doesn't contain any 
new ideas to grow our economy.

[[Page H505]]

  With all of the majority's rhetoric about deficits over the last 
decade or more, this budget explodes the deficit and adds$2 trillion--
as in T--to the national debt, only to set the stage for repeal of 
healthcare assistance to millions of Americans.
  What is more, the Congressional Budget Office has told us that repeal 
of the Affordable Care Act would increase the deficitby $353 billion 
over 10 years. Now, many of my colleagues have noted the devastating 
effect of the repeal of the Affordable CareAct, the effect that it 
would have on millions of Americans' health. Thirty million Americans 
would lose insurance, including 4million children. The cost of 
prescription drugs would go up for our seniors. Young people would lose 
the coverage on theirparents' health care. Women wouldn't be protected, 
and men with preexisting conditions. Pregnancy would no longer be 
covered.
  The Affordable Care Act has made critical progress for Americans. 
Millions have gained health care that they never hadbefore. Our 
uninsured rate is now at 8.9 percent. It is the lowest rate in the 
history of our great country. It is nearly halvedfrom before the 
Affordable Care Act took place, as you can see from this chart. This is 
something we should be proud of. We haveallowed more and more and more 
Americans to have health care when they need it. It is literally a 
life-and-death situation tomillions of Americans.
  This reckless repeal of the Affordable Care Act will also cause 
economic havoc. It not only hurts people; it hurts oureconomy. Now, 
just last month, our economy added 144,000 private sector jobs--the 
75th straight month of job growth in the UnitedStates of America. That 
is something we can all be proud of. That is the longest stretch of job 
creation since 1939 in ourNation's history.
  That is in stark contrast to the way things were at the time that the 
last Presidential transition took place. When BarackObama took the oath 
of office, our economy was shedding a staggering amount of jobs. In 
December of 2008, the economy lost695,000 jobs. The next month, another 
598,000 jobs gone. We were losing, over a period of time, roughly 
700,000 jobs a month.The banks were teetering, lending had halted, the 
auto industry was exploding, our Nation was in economic turmoil. 
Thecombination of a bursting asset bubble and bank panic brought this 
country to the edge of collapse. It was the worst financialcrisis in 
global history, according to the head of the Federal Reserve, Ben 
Bernanke--in global history.
  Today we have a very different story. Thank you, President Obama. Our 
unemployment rate, which had soared up to 10 percent,is now at 4.7 
percent. That is a great achievement. In 2016 alone, our country added 
2.2 million jobs, bringing the total toover 15 million new jobs created 
over the last 7 years. Instead of shedding jobs and losing jobs under 
the prior administration,we were gaining.
  Just look at this chart. We moved from the deep red valley of 
political devastation, economic loss of jobs and suffering, tomoving 
out of our economic troubles to a continued growth of blue job 
creation. In the job creation and in our economy, we alsoexpanded 
health care to help our people. Just look at this chart. It tells the 
story--the deep red valley of economic devastationcaused by the last 
Republican administration and the steady job growth under President 
Obama.
  We are now seeing stronger job growth after years of stagnation. Over 
the past year, average hourly earnings rose to 2.9percent; another 
great success. But now we are considering a heartless and, I would say, 
reckless plan to repeal the AffordableCare Act; a move that threatens 
to undo our progress and will turn millions of lives absolutely upside 
down across this greatNation.
  A report issued this month by The Commonwealth Fund outlined the 
disastrous economic consequences of the majority's plan. Injust the 
first year of repeal, our economy will lose nearly 2.6 million jobs and 
over $255 billion in economic output. Over thecourse of 5 years, our 
economy will lose over $1.5 trillion in output.
  These devastating job losses are not limited to the healthcare 
industry. As was pointed out by many Democratic speakers, ourwhole 
industry is intertwined. You can't cut the Affordable Care Act without 
also impacting not only people, but also thedelivery of services 
through our hospitals, and also Medicaid and Medicare. It is all 
intertwined. It is reckless to moveforward and say: Oh, we are going to 
come up with a good plan.
  Well, where is it?
  You have had years to come up with it. We have never seen it.
  We will lose not just two-thirds, over 1.6 million, of jobs just in 
health care, but also in relatedindustries--construction, retail, and 
other sectors. What is more, this repeal plan would also place massive 
financial burdens onour State budgets.
  The Commonwealth Fund report estimates that in just the first year, 
States would lose out on $8.2 billion in tax revenue.Over 5 years, our 
States would lose over $48 billion in tax revenue. That means hits to 
our schools, our roads, our firstresponders, and our neighborhoods.
  Of course, repealing the Affordable Care Act will hurt the millions 
of people who have directly benefited from it. Peoplehave come up to me 
and told me on the street: I finally have health care; I have health 
care for my children; I know if they gethurt, they are going to be 
taken care of.
  People in my home State of New York will be hit very hard. Over 2.7 
million New Yorkers have healthcare coverage today thatthey did not 
have before because of the Affordable Care Act. Now their health care 
is on the line, for they are among the 30million who would lose health 
coverage under the majority's repeal plan.
  This not only hurts people, it cost economic development--a loss of 
$89.7 billion in gross State product for my State of NewYork alone.
  This is the way it is all across the country. Americans of every 
political stripe, who work hard and play by the rules andthink they 
finally have health care, who have at long last gained it, are now 
worried about what is going to happen to themtomorrow. They deserve 
better. They deserve what they already have. They, at least, deserve a 
plan.
  We should not repeal. We shouldn't repeal it in the first place. But 
if you are going to repeal it, let's be responsibleabout it and have 
what it is you are going to put back in place to help people. It is 
reckless to repeal it.
  In the most advanced, most economically prosperous country in the 
history of the world, our people deserve the certaintythat they can 
have access to health care for themselves and their families. With all 
that is at stake--health care for millions,the loss of 2.6 million 
jobs, economic havoc--it is simply irresponsible to move forward with a 
budget, and reckless to repealthe Affordable Care Act without any real 
solution to help people.
  I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to vote against this 
budget resolution, which is nothing more than a plan totake health care 
away from Americans.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. TIBERI. Mr. Chairman, it is a pleasure to yield 2 minutes to the 
gentleman from Florida (Mr. Francis Rooney), a newMember of this 
Congress, and a new member of the Joint Economic Committee.
  Mr. FRANCIS ROONEY of Florida. Mr. Chairman, I rise to speak about 
and oppose the travesty known as ObamaCare.
  The need to replace this program was obvious on day one. It is a 
failed socioeconomic experiment perpetrated by people whodon't believe 
in individual choice and don't understand free market competition. In 
fact, we can see less than half of the folksthat were supposed to sign 
up have done it because it is a bad deal for them. Nothing promised 
under this medical healthinsurance program has proved true. Care costs 
have gone up, premiums and deductibles have skyrocketed.
  We have another chart here, if I might, that shows a projected 25-
plus percent increase in premiums in 2017. My State ofFlorida is 19 
percent. Coverage has been circumscribed and reduced. This business 
about keeping your doctor has proven to beanother falsehood. You can't 
afford to keep your doctor. You can't afford to keep your insurance.
  The entire program was flawed from the beginning. It is a top-down, 
government-run boondoggle. All it has done is

[[Page H506]]

create monopolies for a bunch of insurance companies. I have heard 
heart-wrenching personal stories from so many familiesin southwest 
Florida who have suffered severe financial burdens and have had reduced 
and dropped coverage because of ObamaCare.
  Paying more for less is bad policy. It is bad economics. It is a raw 
deal for Americans. Now we have the opportunity to dothree things to 
turn the page and put this disaster of ObamaCare behind us. We have the 
opportunity today to enact theresolution, which will lead to repealing 
ObamaCare. We have the opportunity to have Dr. Price take the helm of 
Health andHuman Services and begin a substantial administrative 
overhaul. And we have the opportunity to put in the replacement plan 
thathas been talked about, described in A Better Way for America, which 
provides a seamless transition into a new form of healthcare, leaves no 
one without coverage, and assures the continual coverage of preexisting 
conditions. But it will offer consumerchoice the American way. It will 
make coverage affordable and competitive.
  The CHAIR. The time of the gentleman has expired.
  Mr. TIBERI. Mr. Chairman, I yield the gentleman an additional 30 
seconds.
  Mr. FRANCIS ROONEY of Florida. It will stimulate competition for 
insurance coverage across State lines for moving an archaicand 
artificial barrier, which shouldn't be there in the first place. 
Lastly, it will encourage innovation in the delivery ofhealth care in 
advances in treatment.
  Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York. Mr. Chairman, first, I would 
like to apologize to two dedicated members of thecommittee on which we 
serve: Mr. Beyer and Mr. Delaney, who have been sitting here, waiting 
for a long time. But Mr.Nadler tells me he has an absolute pressing 
emergency and must go first.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from New York (Mr. 
Nadler).
  Mr. NADLER. Mr. Chairman, repeal of the Affordable Care Act will be a 
disaster for the American public. It will send Americaback to the days 
when people went bankrupt trying to pay medical bills, and seniors on 
Medicare spent $3,000 on prescriptiondrugs alone.
  Adding insult to a very serious injury, the bill before us would 
defund Planned Parenthood because of debunked accusations.Republicans 
are asking us to pass legislation that will punish an invaluable 
organization without any evidence of due processbecause they don't 
agree with it. This bill smacks of an unconstitutional bill of 
attainder.
  If we do pass this bill, we will leave millions of women with no 
access to health care. Republicans know that communityhealth centers 
and Medicaid networks do not include enough providers, particularly OB/
GYNs, to take on all of PlannedParenthood's patients.

                              {time}  1315

  By voting to defund Planned Parenthood today, we will be leaving 2.7 
million women and men with no access to reproductivehealth care.
  What a statement for the Republicans to make as their first major 
piece of legislation. They are saying to the Americanpeople, and to 
women in particular: Republicans don't care about your health or about 
your families. Republicans just care aboutpolitics.
  Well, my Democratic colleagues and I care about the health of the 
American people, about American jobs and about Americanwomen. That is 
why we will vote against this absurd budget resolution; that, and the 
ACA repeal.
  I urge my colleagues to vote against this bill.
  Mr. Chair, this budget resolution is primarily a vehicle to repeal 
the Affordable Care Act and to defund Planned Parenthood,steps the 
Republicans are taking without putting any plans in place to ensure 
that millions of men, women, and children willcontinue to have access 
to health care they need. They are proposing to let Americans get sick, 
even die, to score cheappolitical points.
  Repeal of the Affordable Care Act will be a disaster for the American 
public. In New York State alone, it will result in 2.7million people 
losing health insurance and will create a $3 billion hole in the state 
budget. It will also result in the loss ofthousands of health care jobs 
across the state. Republicans will send America back to the days when 
people went bankrupt tryingto pay medical bills. It will mean that 
people with private insurance--from their employers or the individual 
market--will havetheir insurance cancelled for pre-existing conditions. 
It will mean that people once again will be subject to annual or 
lifetimelimits--in other words, if you get an expensive illness, a 
heart attack or cancer, your insurance will run out just when you 
needit the most. And people on Medicare will have to pay an average of 
$3,000 a year for prescription drugs.
  Adding insult to very serious injury, this bill would defund Planned 
Parenthood because of debunked accusations. If membershave real 
evidence that Planned Parenthood broke the law, they should send it to 
federal law enforcement agencies. Instead, theyare asking us to pass 
legislation that will punish an invaluable organization without any 
evidence or due process because theydon't agree with them. My 
colleagues who love to cloak themselves in the Constitution should know 
Congress is not the lawenforcement body this bill asks us to be--it 
smacks of a clearly unconstitutional bill of attainder.
  If we do pass this bill, we will leave millions of women with no 
access to health care. Republicans may claim that women cango elsewhere 
for the services provided by Planned Parenthood--they've even gone so 
far as to provide additional funding forCommunity Health Centers to 
fill the gaps they clearly know this bill will leave behind. But did 
they check to see if theexisting Community Health Centers or Medicaid 
networks can fill these gaps? Did they ask HHS to confirm that 
Community HealthCenters even employ enough OB/GYNs and other 
specialists to actually take on the patients currently treated by 
PlannedParenthood? Of course not.
  Republicans know HHS would never be able to make that determination. 
More than half of Planned Parenthood patients rely onMedicaid. Most 
states do not have enough Medicaid providers, particularly specialists 
like OB/GYNs, to absorb PlannedParenthood's patients. By voting to 
defund Planned Parenthood today, you are leaving 2.7 million women, 
men, and families withno access to health care.
  Republicans are leaving women to suffer with no access to prenatal 
care, condemning seniors to undiagnosed cancers, andleaving children to 
suffer with asthma and other chronic illnesses all to make a political 
statement.
  And what a statement for Republicans to make as their first major 
piece of legislation. They are saying to the Americanpeople, and women 
in particular: Republicans don't care about your health. Republicans 
don't care about your families.Republicans just care about politics.
  Well, my Democratic colleagues and I care about the health of the 
American people. We care about American jobs. We careabout American 
women. That's why we will vote against this absurd budget resolution. I 
urge my Republican colleagues to join us.
  Mr. TIBERI. I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York. I yield 2 minutes to the 
gentleman from the great State of Virginia (Mr. Beyer.)
  Mr. BEYER. Mr. Chair, I rise with my Joint Economic Committee 
Democratic colleagues to address the terrible effects that 
theRepublican budget will have on this country's health.
  I listened with rapt astonishment to Speaker Ryan's recitation of the 
percentage increases in the premium costs forinsurance, for insurers on 
the Obama exchanges. But the Speaker omitted important facts.
  Number one, more than 80 percent of ObamaCare customers get subsidies 
to help them pay the cost of these premiums. They donot pay the full 
cost and will not feel the brunt of these increases.
  Number two, these increases are uneven. Yes, Arizona is up, but Rhode 
Island will decrease 14 percent. The Speaker cherry-picked the highest 
ones, omitting the overall increase.
  But most importantly, number three, most people are unaffected 
because most people get their insurance through theiremployer, 
Medicare, Medicaid, or the VA. Only a small fraction of Americans 
actually buy insurance on the individual market.Premiums, for the 
average single person through the employer market last year, were 
exactly the same as those for families; onlyup 3 percent.
  As an employer myself who offers health insurance to more than 300 
people, and someone who is very concerned about the debt,my great 
concern is that the Republicans seem willing to throw out our total 
commitment to managing our debt for this repeal.

[[Page H507]]

  I have listened to my friends in the Freedom Caucus lament about our 
national debt and together we have made significantprogress on the 
budget deficits.
  But blowing up ObamaCare will blow up our national debt, the most 
fiscally irresponsible act since we waged two wars withoutpaying for 
them.
  A study by the Commonwealth Fund projects that repealing ObamaCare 
will cause the State of Virginia to lose up to 100,000jobs and $50 
billion in business output.
  I urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on this most fiscally 
irresponsible plan.
  Mr. TIBERI. I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York. I yield 2 minutes to the 
gentleman from Maryland (Mr. Delaney), anotherdistinguished member of 
the Joint Economic Committee.
  Mr. DELANEY. Mr. Chair, we all know that hard-edged partisan politics 
has not only eroded the confidence that the Americanpeople have in our 
government, but it has caused government to function to a very low 
standard.
  In my 4 years that I have been in this Congress, I have never seen a 
better example of that than what we have here today.Because today, we 
are considering a budget that is not only fiscally irresponsible, it 
doubles our deficits across 10 years,increases the national debt by $10 
trillion, but its sole purpose is to repeal the Affordable Care Act.
  The purpose of today's budget is not to amend the Affordable Care Act 
to preserve its strengths and tackle it weaknesses,nor is the purpose 
of today's budget to repeal the Affordable Care Act and put something 
in place that has been well thoughtthrough and shared with the American 
public. The purpose of today's bill is to repeal the Affordable Care 
Act in a cold, hardway and let the chips fall where they fall. And this 
is not being done because it is good policy.
  Anyone who is serious about healthcare policy--even people who oppose 
the Affordable Care Act--who has looked at this issue,has concluded, by 
any measure, the Affordable Care Act should not be repealed without a 
replacement. It is being done forpolitical reasons because my 
colleagues, unfortunately, for years, have told their supporters that 
they would repeal this billat all cost, without having the courage or 
convictions to explain to them the consequences of repeal without 
replacement; norwithout the determination to do the work to come up 
with an alternative.
  The Affordable Care Act was passed 8 years ago. It was passed on a 
straight party-line basis, which was unfortunate. It hadthree important 
goals, which it has achieved: to expand health care in over 20 million 
people; to lower the overall cost ofhealth care in this country, which 
is the most important number in our fiscal health; and to improve the 
quality of health care.
  Is it perfect? No. Are we addressing its problems today? No. Are we 
repealing it without any replacement? Yes. By anymeasure, will that be 
bad for the public health and potentially cause a public health crisis 
in the United States of America?The answer to that is yes.
  I urge my colleagues to reject the budget proposal.
  Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York. Mr. Chair, I urge a strong 
``no'' vote. This budget resolution jeopardizes the veryhealth of our 
citizens and puts our economic recovery at risk. I urge a ``no'' vote.
  I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. TIBERI. Mr. Chair, I am prepared to close, and I yield myself 
such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Chair, there are several perspectives, important perspectives, to 
health care and health insurance: one, value deliveredto patients in 
terms of insurance plan options, choice of doctors, access to 
treatment, and, most importantly, health outcomes;two, health insurance 
premiums and healthcare cost sharing; three, budgetary cost to the 
Federal and State governments; four,supply of healthcare services, 
including by doctors and hospitals and through medications; and fifth, 
indirect costs to theeconomy, such as reduced job creation and labor 
force participation.
  The Affordable Care Act fails on all five counts, and that is why we 
are here today, to start the process of repealing andreplacing it. The 
program is dysfunctional, and its costs have become and will become 
more unsustainable.
  Supposedly, the central objective for passing the ACA was to insure 
those who did not have coverage. I was there.
  Yet, the increased government sprawl shown in this chart inhealth 
care is striking.

  The Joint Economic Committee chart from the time of the law's passage 
illustrates the law's mind-numbing complexity.Unsurprising to anyone 
skeptical of bureaucratic solutions, the Obama healthcare system has 
not worked.
  Instead of empowering innovators, doctors, patients, ObamaCare has 
implemented a complex scheme that relies on unelectedbureaucrats. And 
this chart demonstrates that clearly.
  Mr. Chair, ObamaCare means fewer choices. In fact, Kimberly, a 
constituent in my district, recently told me that she had abrain tumor. 
She said:

       Virtually no doctors take the marketplace insurance, so I 
     am left to changedoctors who I have seen for 30 years and 
     switch to new doctors who I don't trust and cannot provide 
     the same healthcare benefitsthat I have received in the past.

  Traumatic for her.
  Remarkably, the enrollment failure is happening, despite penalties on 
individuals failing to obtain coverage and onemployers failing to 
provide it.
  Even with billions of dollars in subsidies, in my opinion, this 
illustrates that many would likely prefer to trade theirsubsidies for 
more flexibility, the choice of their own doctors, and useful 
alternatives.
  ObamaCare also means higher premiums. Ohioans, on the individual 
marketplace, have seen increased premiums by 111 percentsince passage 
of ObamaCare, and now in my State, the average premium is over $5,000.
  Republicans agree that the system needs reform, but ObamaCare cannot 
be reformed. The argument that parts of the Americanhealthcare 
insurance system were not working previously, and that more people now 
have health insurance, is irrelevant to thedecision to repeal 
ObamaCare. Nobody claims that the former system was perfect. I 
certainly don't.
  Certainly, the government can increase coverage with subsidies, 
increase coverage with mandates, but what has it done to theunderlying 
health care that is being provided?
  The extent and method by which ObamaCare increases coverage has 
caused huge and unnecessary collateral damage to all othersin the 
marketplace, all others with respect to patient choice of their 
doctors, the quality of the care that they are receiving,the supply of 
health care, and, certainly, State and Federal budgets.
  The focus of ObamaCare advocates has been almost exclusively on 
increasing the number of insured by government subsidy andmandate. I 
get that. I understand that, but not on maximizing healthy outcomes. 
Those aren't the same things.
  Health insurance is not an end in itself. Effective treatment to 
healthcare problems is.
  Private investment is so needed to push forward medical discoveries, 
innovation, accelerate drug development, personalizemedicine, and 
harness technology to coordinate our health care and help administrate 
it.
  There is a better way. You will hear from the other side of the aisle 
that Republicans have no plan to replace ObamaCare.Here are the plans. 
It is just not true. The goal of the Republican plan is not to go back 
to the way things were beforeObamaCare; it is to move forward.
  We want to facilitate a well-functioning market in health care, and 
health insurance as well. In the United States, we letthe marketplace 
work things out. Republicans want to fix those obstacles and make it 
better.
  Among the features of the Better Way is: portability, patient-
centered care, insurance across State lines, medical liabilityreform, 
new mechanisms for small businesses and individuals to power together 
to negotiate, flexibility for our Governors, apatient-centered, 
patient-focused program.
  The government has a role and a responsibility to provide support for 
those who can't afford it, for those who fall throughthe cracks. A 
refundable tax credit is part of our plan, addressing preexisting 
conditions is part of our plan, and keepingdependents up to 26 on their 
parents' plan is part of our plan.

[[Page H508]]

  But the deeper points to recognize are: One, there is no reason why a 
free market could not offer insurance to individualsthat provides 
continuous coverage throughout their lives. There is no reason that 
helping the poor should not limit the choicesand flexibilities of 
everyone else, which ObamaCare has done, much less interfere with the 
larger economy.
  Moreover, the law has had an impact on employment. I see it every 
week. Economics Professor Casey Mulligan of the Universityof Chicago 
estimated that the ACA taxes will affect nearly half of the working 
population in America, reducing average wages,hours worked, and GDP.
  And based upon CBO estimates, the overall impact of the ACA on the 
supply of labor will become progressively worse as timepasses.
  ObamaCare took certain problems in healthcare insurance--a large 
number of uninsured, lack of individual coverage forpreexisting 
conditions, higher premiums for individuals--and used them as an excuse 
to create socialized medicine.
  The repeal of ObamaCare will take us off that path and replacement 
will offer shortcomings to other problems.
  Going forward, Republicans stand ready to provide support away from 
ObamaCare through a transition. And getting an improvedhealthcare 
system in place improves consumer choice.
  I understand the anxiety that many are feeling right now listening to 
the Democrats tell them that health care is going tobe yanked out from 
under them.
  When I was a kid, my dad, a steel worker, lost his job. We lost our 
health care. We lost our insurance. I know what thatanxiety is like. 
And I want to assure everyone today, that is not what we are doing here 
today.
  I know what we are doing here today. We are empowering patients. We 
are empowering doctors, not bureaucrats. We are givingthem more 
choices, more opportunities, and a better healthcare system.
  Mr. Chair, I ask that we support this resolution.
  I yield back the balance of my time.
  The CHAIR. All time for the Joint Economic Committee has expired.
  The gentlewoman from Tennessee has 6 minutes remaining. The gentleman 
from Kentucky has 2 minutes remaining.
  The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Tennessee.
  Mrs. BLACK. I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. YARMUTH. I am prepared to close, and I yield myself the balance 
of my time.
  Mr. Chairman, everybody in this room wants the same thing. We want 
the best quality of care available to the most people atthe lowest 
price. That is what every American wants. That is what Republicans and 
Democrats alike want.
  We have put our plan to do that on the table. We recognize that there 
are ways it could be improved. But the idea that thereis a plan 
competing on the other side is just hilarious.

                              {time}  1330

  Last night, I testified at the Rules Committee before Chairman 
Sessions. Chairman Sessions introduced a bill lastyear. He had one 
cosponsor. That gentleman is no longer in the House, so he has no 
cosponsors as of now. His plan is called theWorld's Greatest Healthcare 
Act. I like the name, but I don't know how that relates to any of those 
other plans. I know thatprobably some of the elements are similar.
  This is the problem with the exercise we are going through. We are 
heading down a road with no final determination ordestination. We are 
going to repeal the Affordable Care Act, eliminating all the 
protections that we have provided for 300million Americans--expanded 
coverage, expanded guarantees, benefits, and quality--and we don't know 
what the alternative is.
  Waiving around a bunch of papers does not mean there is a plan. It 
does not mean that the Republicans can say to theAmerican public: 
``Here is what your health care is going to look like when we get 
finished with our repeal and replace.'' Theyjust can't do that.
  That is why only 18 percent of the American people, according to a 
Kaiser survey, want this course of action, want a repealwithout a 
replacement.
  All I have to say is, if we go down this path, we won't have repeal 
and replace. What we will have is repeal and repentbecause we are going 
to owe a huge apology to the American people for the damage that we 
have caused.
  I urge my colleagues to reject this resolution.
  I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mrs. BLACK. Mr. Chairman, after all the debate that we have had 
today, these facts remain: ObamaCare is failing; healthcoverage is 
becoming less affordable; health care is becoming less accessible; and 
the American people want and deservesomething better than this broken 
status quo.
  While my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are doing their 
best to defend this law and make excuses for the harm itis causing, 
Republicans promised the American people we will not ignore those in 
our country who are suffering under the currenthealthcare system.
  Today, we have an opportunity to begin to bring relief to the 
American people. Today's vote will kick-start thereconciliation process 
through which we can and must repeal ObamaCare and pave the way to a 
patient-centered healthcare system,and I include in the Record letters 
supporting passage of S. Con. Res. 3.

                                        Chamber of Commerce of the


                                     United States of America,

                                  Washington, DC, January 13,2017.
       To the Members of the U.S. House of Representatives: The 
     U.S. Chamber of Commerce supportsS. Con. Res. 3, the 
     concurrent resolution setting forth the congressional budget 
     for fiscal year 2017, as an initial step towardmaking 
     critical improvements to the American health care system.
       Congress must repeal the ``Cadillac'' tax, the 
     healthinsurance tax, the medical device tax, the employer 
     responsibility penalties, and other harmful taxes of the 
     Affordable Care Actthat have increased health care costs for 
     millions of Americans. As committees begin consideration of 
     reconciliationlegislation, the Chamber will continue to 
     advocate strongly for those and other issues.
       Furthermore, this proposal providesfor modifications to 
     enacted FY 2017 discretionary spending levels to bring them 
     into alignment with the AppropriationsCommittee's existing 
     allocation as part of the deeming resolution required by the 
     Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015. These levelsare consistent 
     with the statutory limits established by the Budget Control 
     Act and amended by the Bipartisan Budget Act. Thislegislation 
     would also make changes to mandatory spending to reflect $2 
     billion in mandatory savings--the same amount establishedin 
     the reconciliation instructions.
       The FY 2017 Appropriations bills include many Chamber 
     policy priorities. The Chamberstrongly supports completing 
     work on those bills and hopes that passage of this budget 
     resolution will provide the framework fortheir quick 
     consideration, including beginning the important work on 
     fiscal year 2018 bills.
           Sincerely,
     JackHoward.
                                  ____



                                   National Retail Federation,

                                                 January 11, 2017.
     Hon. Paul Ryan,
     Speaker, House of Representatives,Washington, DC.
     Hon. Nancy Pelosi,
     Democratic Leader, House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
       Dear Speaker Ryan and Democratic Leader Pelosi: I write to 
     share the support of the National Retail Federation(NRF) for 
     S. Con. Res. 3, the fiscal year 2017 budget resolution. 
     Please note that NRF may consider votes on S. Con. Res. 3 
     andrelated procedural motions as Opportunity Index Votes for 
     our annual voting scorecard.
       The Affordable Care Act (ACA) remainsa great concern for 
     NRF and the greater retail community. The ACA adversely 
     influences staffing patterns, discourages full-timeemployment 
     and adds to the cost of goods in retail stores. NRF opposed 
     enactment of the ACA in 2010 but has also workedsteadfastly 
     to change the law since its enactment. We have supported 
     reasonable bipartisan efforts to reduce the ACA's costburdens 
     and ease compliance concerns. The ACA remains a heavy burden 
     for the retail community despite all of our efforts to fixand 
     adjust to the law.
       This budget resolution is the first step toward the 
     eventual repeal of the ACA. We support this firststep but 
     will be closely watching the ensuing reconciliation 
     legislation to help keep employment-based coverage as stable 
     andpredictable as possible. We strongly urge that the process 
     of replacing the ACA be both bipartisan as well as 
     deliberate.Consensus reform will build on the employment 
     based system, which covers 178 million Americans, but not 
     threaten this coveragein the effort to help others.
       For all of these reasons, NRF supports S. Con. Res. 3 and 
     ask for your vote insupport.
           Sincerely,
                                                     David French,
                      Senior Vice President, Government Relations.

[[Page H509]]

     
                                  ____
                                           National Association of


                                      Wholesaler-Distributors,

                                  Washington, DC, January 12,2017.
     Hon. Paul Ryan,
     Speaker, House of Representatives,
     Washington, DC.
     Hon. Nancy Pelosi,
     Democratic Leader, House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
       Dear Speaker Ryan and LeaderPelosi: I write on behalf of 
     the National Association of Wholesaler-Distributors (NAW) to 
     express support for S. Con. Res. 3,the Fiscal Year 2017 
     Budget Resolution. Passage of the budget resolution will 
     provide an important first step toward the repealand 
     replacement of the Affordable Care Act (ACA).
       It has become painfully apparent that the ACA has not and 
     will not achievethe affordability, competition and choice 
     goals promised by its sponsors. Looking forward, NAW members 
     are deeply concernedabout the ACA's potential to do harm to 
     the employment-based health insurance system through which 
     some 170 million Americansacquire their health coverage, 
     particularly as two ill-advised ACA financing components--the 
     excise tax on high-cost health plans(the ``Cadillac Tax'') 
     and the annual fee on health insurance providers (the 
     ``Health Insurance Tax'' or ``HIT'')--takehold.
       NAW looks forward to working with Members of both houses of 
     Congress on both sides of the aisle in what we hope will bea 
     collaborative effort to find common legislative ground on 
     marketplace-driven, patient-centered ways to achieve shared 
     access,cost-containment, and quality goals.
       I advise that votes taken on and in relation to S. Con. 
     Res. 3 may be considered keyvotes for the 115th Congress.
           Sincerely,
                                           James A. Anderson, Jr.,
     Vice President-GovernmentRelations.
                                  ____

                                           National Association of


                                                Manufacturers,

                                 Washington, DC, January 12, 2017.
       Dear Representatives: The National Association of 
     Manufacturers (NAM), the largest manufacturing association in 
     theUnited States, representing manufacturers in every 
     industrial sector and in all 50 states, urges you to support 
     S. Con. Res. 3the Obamacare Repeal Resolution.
       The Budget Resolution takes the first step towards 
     repealing the mandates and taxesresulting from the Patient 
     Protection and Affordable Care Act that are driving up the 
     costs of healthcare for manufacturers.Manufacturers believe 
     that repeal of the 40 percent excise tax on high cost plans, 
     the Health Insurance Tax, the Medical DeviceTax, and other 
     fees and taxes associated with the Affordable Care Act will 
     help employers contain rising health carecosts.
       Manufacturers historically have led the business community 
     in providing health benefits to their employees and 
     arecommitted to continuing this tradition in the future. At 
     the same time, providing health coverage in an environment 
     where costsare consistently rising represents a major 
     challenge for the industry.
       The NAM's Key Vote Advisory Committee has indicatedthat 
     votes on S. Con. Res. 3, including podural motions, may be 
     considered for designation as Key Manufacturing Votes in 
     the115th Congress.
       Thank you for your consideration.
           Sincerely,

                                                Aric Newhouse,

                                 Senior Vice President, Policy and
     Government Relations.
                                  ____

                                      Council for Citizens Against


                                             Government Waste,

                                 Washington, DC, January 12, 2017.
     U.S. House of Representatives,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Representative: You will soon have the opportunity to 
     vote on S. Con. Res. 3, a budget resolution that will 
     beginthe long-awaited process of repealing the Patient 
     Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA), better known as 
     Obamacare. On behalfof the more than one million members and 
     supporters of the Council for Citizens Against Government 
     Waste (CCAGW), I urge you tosupport this important 
     legislation.
       Obamacare, which has been a disaster for patients and 
     taxpayers since it was passed in2010, cannot be fixed. 
     Premiums have dramatically increased, co-ops and state 
     exchanges have failed, and medical costs continueto 
     skyrocket. Conservative estimates suggest that, by its sixth 
     birthday in early 2016, Obamacare had wasted $55 billion, 
     whileits onerous regulations and taxes have stifled economic 
     growth and job creation.
       Over the past year, more co-ops havecollapsed; health 
     insurers have abandoned numerous exchanges; and premiums have 
     increased an average of 25 percent for 2017.Even worse, 
     Obamacare has allowed overzealous Washington bureaucrats to 
     meddle in Americans' most personal and private 
     decisionsconcerning their health. At the same time, patients 
     are getting less care for their plans due to fewer healthcare 
     options andincreasing medical costs; some counties have only 
     one or even no healthcare insurance options (and have to pay 
     a fine, as aresult).
       Obamacare must be repealed before it further damages 
     consumers and the slow-growing economy. Passage of 
     the``Obamacare repeal resolution'' is the first step to 
     accomplishing that critical objective. All votes on S. Con. 
     Res. 3 will beamong those considered for CCAGW's 2017 
     Congressional Ratings.
           Sincerely,
                                                       Tom Schatz,
     President.
                                  ____


                        Americans for Tax Reform

       Congress is expected to soon vote on S. Con. Res. 3, a 
     budget resolutionproviding for repeal of Obamacare. The 
     ``repeal resolution'' is step one in undoing the legacy of 
     broken promises under theBarack Obama presidency which have 
     led to higher healthcare costs, cancelled plans, lost 
     doctors, and more than $1 trillion intax increases which hit 
     millions of middle class families.
       All members of the House and Senate should vote ``yes'' on 
     therepeal resolution. The record of Obamacare is one of 
     broken promises and failed policies. Poll after poll has 
     shown the law isunpopular with the American people. 
     Republicans campaigned on repealing Obamacare and this 
     resolution will allow them to fulfillthat promise
       Members of the Senate should also vote ``no'' on the 
     numerous amendments expected to be offered 
     duringconsideration of the repeal resolution. The purpose of 
     this budget resolution is to allow for an expedited process 
     to repealObamacare through budget reconciliation. These 
     amendments will slow down the process and are largely an 
     attempt for members toplay political games.
       Passing the repeal resolution will allow members of 
     Congress to pass the first of many tax cuts overthe next four 
     years by repealing the more than $1 trillion in higher taxes 
     over a decade. Obamacare's tax hikes directly hitmiddle class 
     families, in violation of President Obama's ``firm pledge'' 
     not to raise any tax on any family earning less than$250,000 
     per year. Passing the repeal resolution will allow members of 
     Congress the opportunity to pass the first of many taxcuts 
     over the next four years by repealing these taxes.
       The Obamacare law imposed taxes on Health Savings Accounts 
     andFlexible Spending Accounts and imposed an income tax 
     increase on Americans with high medical bills. Obamacare 
     levied a new taxon health insurance, a tax on medical 
     devices, a tax on employer provided care, a steep ``indoor 
     tanning tax'' and even a taxfor not buying ``qualifying'' 
     government-mandated insurance.
       Passing the repeal resolution will also allow Congress to 
     undo along list of wasteful subsidies including the risk 
     corridor and reinsurance programs as well as the Prevention 
     and Public Healthslush fund. Each of these programs and 
     agencies have seen billions in taxpayer dollars wasted on 
     partisan activities at a timewhen the federal government 
     already spends far too much. Support for S. Con. Res. 3 is 
     the first step toward enacting aconservative, patient-
     centered, fiscally responsible healthcare system and 
     eliminating the broken promises, wasteful spending,and higher 
     taxes of the Obama years.

                        Americans for Prosperity

       For years, our lawmakers inCongress have vowed to get rid 
     of Obamacare. Now, they have their best chance yet to make 
     good on their word.
       Barack Obama'ssignature health-care law has failed to 
     deliver on its promises, and continues to leave Americans 
     with cancelled insuranceplans, reduced access to doctors, and 
     premium increases in the double digits--or worse.
       Using a process called budgetreconciliation, Obamacare's 
     opponents in our new Senate can repeal large portions of the 
     law with a simple majority, whileleaving no possibility of a 
     filibuster by lawmakers who want to keep it. Then, the 
     resolution would just need to be passed inthe House of 
     Representatives and signed by President Trump after he takes 
     office.
       We can't let our lawmakers pass up thisopportunity to turn 
     back years of terrible policy and free Americans from 
     Obamacare's burdensome mandates and costs.

  Mrs. BLACK. Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of this 
resolution so that we can pursue those solutions thatwill expand access 
to care, increase the quality and affordability of that care, and give 
the American people, not Washington,the power to choose what best fits 
their individual needs.
  I yield back the balance of my time.
  Ms. ESHOO. Mr. Chair, I rise today to express my grave concerns with 
the Republican budget proposal for 2017. The budgetbefore us today is a 
disaster for the American people. Not only does it add $9 trillion to 
the national debt and put our nationon the path to fiscal ruin, it 
begins the process of dismantling the Affordable Care

[[Page H510]]

Act, taking health insurance awayfrom 30 million Americans.
  Our national budget is not just pages of numbers. It is a statement 
of our nation's values. By that measure, this budget ismorally 
bankrupt.
  The Affordable Care Act became law in March 2010, yet despite their 
condemnations of the law, Republicans have failed topresent any 
comprehensive alternative in the nearly seven years since it was signed 
into law. Not one single proposal. TheMajority Leader Kevin McCarthy 
said it best at the Washington Post's Daily 202 interview on November 
29th last year when hesuggested our healthcare system should look more 
like the cable industry because of all the choices consumers have in 
thatmarket. He said, ``I always use the analogy, would I want to pick a 
cable company to watch what I want to watch on TV? I lovethe options 
that I have, I love the ability to switch, I love the different 
packages that I can pick if I like a certain sportsteam, or I want to 
watch HBO or something else. Why can't we have health care in a manner 
that we can do something to thatextent?''
  If Republicans think the American people want the cable industry to 
serve as a model for the health insurance market, ourRepublican 
colleagues are even more out of touch than I ever imagined.
  After spending years and 65 votes to repeal the ACA, and warning 
Americans about the dire threats of budget deficits and thenational 
debt, Republicans have suddenly done an about face. They no longer care 
about the fiscal impact of this budget whichadds $9 trillion to the 
national debt over 10 years. Nor do they care about the fiscal impact 
of repealing the Affordable CareAct which is estimated to cost $350 
billion over 10 years according to the Congressional Budget Office.
  The House majority has also set its sights on dismantling our 
nation's premier social insurance program by including in theHouse 
Rules package the unprecedented requirement that each standing 
committee identify programs that can be moved frommandatory to 
discretionary spending. This is a chilling and thinly veiled move to 
begin dismantling the guarantee of SocialSecurity, Medicare, and 
Medicaid, and tie the future of these essential programs to the 
uncertainty of the annual appropriationsprocess.
  I urge my colleagues to think long and hard about the far-reaching 
consequences of this budget on the well-being of theAmerican people and 
the fiscal health of our nation and vote `No' on final passage.


 =========================== NOTE =========================== 

  
  January 13, 2017, on pages H509/H510, the following copy was 
typeset in Ionic font: Ms. ESHOO. Mr. Chair, I rise today 
toexpress my grave concerns with the Republican budget proposal 
for 2017. The budget before us today is a disaster for theAmerican 
people. Not only does it add $9 trillion to the national debt and 
put our nation on the path to fiscal ruin, it beginsthe process of 
dismantling the Affordable Care Act, taking health insurance away 
from 30 million Americans. Our national budgetis not just pages of 
numbers. It is a statement of our nation's values. By that 
measure, this budget is morally bankrupt. TheAffordable Care Act 
became law in March 2010, yet despite their condemnations of the 
law, Republicans have failed to present anycomprehensive 
alternative in the nearly seven years since it was signed into 
law. Not one single proposal. The Majority LeaderKEVIN MCCARTHY 
said it best at the Washington Post's Daily 202 interview on 
November 29th last year when he suggested ourhealthcare system 
should look more like the cable industry because of all the 
choices consumers have in that market. He said,``I always use the 
analogy, would I want to pick a cable company to watch what I want 
to watch on TV? I love the options that Ihave, I love the ability 
to switch, I love the different packages that I can pick if I like 
a certain sports team, or I want towatch HBO or something else. 
Why can't we have health care in a manner that we can do something 
to that extent?'' If Republicansthink the American people want the 
cable industry to serve as a model for the health insurance 
market, our Republican colleaguesare even more out of touch than I 
ever imagined. After spending years and 65 votes to repeal the 
ACA, and warning Americansabout the dire threats of budget 
deficits and the national debt, Republicans have suddenly done an 
about face. They no longercare about the fiscal impact of this 
budget which adds $9 trillion to the national debt over 10 years. 
Nor do they care aboutthe fiscal impact of repealing the 
Affordable Care Act which is estimated to cost $350 billion over 
10 years according to theCongressional Budget Office. The House 
majority has also set its sights on dismantling our nation's 
premier social insuranceprogram by including in the House Rules 
package the unprecedented requirement that each standing committee 
identify programsthat can be moved from mandatory to discretionary 
spending. This is a chilling and thinly veiled move to begin 
dismantling theguarantee of Social Security, Medicare, and 
Medicaid, and tie the future of these essential programs to the 
uncertainty of theannual appropriations process I urge my 
colleagues to think long and hard about the far-reaching 
consequences of this budget onthe wellbeing of the American people 
and the fiscal health of our nation and vote `No' on final 
passage.
  
  The online version has been corrected to show the copy typeset 
in Helvetica font.


 ========================= END NOTE ========================= 

  Mr. BRADY of Texas. Mr. Chair, this bill is a critical first step in 
our effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act anddeliver relief to the 
millions of Americans who continue to be hurt by this failing law.
  The Affordable Care Act has helped some, but it's also inflicted 
tremendous harm to families and small businessesnationwide. And the 
damage grows bigger each passing year.
  Out of pocket cost are skyrocketing--often more than $10,000 a year.
  Choices have disappeared.
  And control over your personal health care decisions--whether it's 
which doctors you can see or which health plan you canhave--is gone. It 
doesn't belong to the American people anymore. Instead, Washington is 
now in control of people's personalhealthcare decisions.
  It doesn't have to be this way.
  The American people sent a clear signal in November. They are sick of 
this law because it hasn't improved their care,lowered their costs, or 
kept its promises.
  They want the Affordable Care Act repealed and replaced with a 21st 
century system--one based on what patients and familieswant and need, 
not what Washington thinks is best.
  Today, with this legislation, we have an opportunity to send a clear 
signal of our own:
  Relief is on the way.
  That's what I want to say to all of my constituents in Texas.
  People like Bill in The Woodlands, who just had his health plan 
canceled for the second year in a row.
  People like Lauren in South Montgomery County whose premiums just 
went up to $900 a month.
  Families like the Thomas's in Montgomery, who say they have paid over 
$24,000 this year for the poorest-quality care theyhave received in 
their adult lives. The Thomas's say it'll be $30,000 before their 
insurance contributes a dime.
  To the people of my district--to Bill, to Lauren, to the Thomas 
family--and to the millions of Americans across the countrywho are 
suffering because of the Affordable Care Act:
  Relief is on the way.
  We are working to deliver health care solutions that truly lower 
costs, increase choices, and put Americans back in controlof their own 
health care decisions.
  That all starts today. It starts by passing this budget legislation 
and taking the crucial first step to repeal theAffordable Care Act.
  Ms. ESHOO. Mr. Chair, I rise today to express my grave concerns with 
the Republican budget proposal for 2017.
  The budget before us today is a disaster for the American people. Not 
only does it add $9 trillion to the national debt andput our nation on 
the path to fiscal ruin, it begins the process of dismantling the 
Affordable Care Act, taking health insuranceaway from 30 million 
Americans.
  Our national budget is not just pages of numbers. It is a statement 
of our nation's values. By that measure, this budget ismorally 
bankrupt.
  The Affordable Care Act became law in March 2010, yet despite their 
condemnations of the law, Republicans have failed topresent any 
comprehensive alternative in the nearly seven years since it was signed 
into law. Not one single proposal. TheMajority Leader Kevin McCarthy 
said it best at the Washington Post's Daily 202 interview on November 
29th last year when hesuggested our healthcare system should look more 
like the cable industry because of all the choices consumers have in 
thatmarket. He said:
  ``I always use the analogy, would I want to pick a cable company to 
watch what I want to watch on TV? I love the optionsthat I have, I love 
the ability to switch, I love the different packages that I can pick if 
I like a certain sports team, or Iwant to watch HBO or something else. 
Why can't we have health care in a manner that we can do something to 
that extent?''
  If Republicans think the American people want the cable industry to 
serve as a model for the health insurance market, ourRepublican 
colleagues are even more out of touch than I ever imagined.
  After spending years and 65 votes to repeal the ACA, and warning 
Americans about the dire threats of budget deficits and thenational 
debt, Republicans have suddenly done an about face. They no longer care 
about the fiscal impact of this budget whichadds $9 trillion to the 
national debt over 10 years. Nor do they care about the fiscal impact 
of repealing the Affordable CareAct which is estimated to cost $350 
billion over 10 years according to the Congressional Budget Office.
  The House majority has also set its sights on dismantling our 
nation's premier social insurance program by including in theHouse 
Rules package the unprecedented requirement that each standing 
committee identify programs that can be moved frommandatory to 
discretionary spending. This is a chilling and thinly veiled move to 
begin dismantling the guarantee of SocialSecurity, Medicare, and 
Medicaid, and tie the future of these essential programs to the 
uncertainty of the annual appropriationsprocess.
  I urge my colleagues to think long and hard about the far-reaching 
consequences of this budget on the well-being of theAmerican people and 
the fiscal health of our nation and vote `No' on final passage.
  The CHAIR. All time for general debate has expired.
  Pursuant to the rule, the concurrent resolution shall be considered 
for amendment under the 5-minute rule and is consideredread.
  The text of the concurrent resolution is as follows:

                             S. Con. Res.3

       Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives 
     concurring),

     SECTION 1.CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 
                   2017.

       (a) Declaration.--Congress declares that this resolution 
     isthe concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 
     2017 and that this resolution sets forth the appropriate 
     budgetarylevels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026.
       (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this 
     concurrent resolutionis as follows:

Sec. 1. Concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2017.

                 TITLE I--RECOMMENDED LEVELS ANDAMOUNTS

              Subtitle A--Budgetary Levels in Both Houses

Sec. 1101. Recommended levels and amounts.
Sec. 1102. Majorfunctional categories.

              Subtitle B--Levels and Amounts in the Senate

Sec. 1201. Social Security in theSenate.
Sec. 1202. Postal Service discretionary administrative expenses in the 
              Senate.

                        TITLEII--RECONCILIATION

Sec. 2001. Reconciliation in the Senate.
Sec. 2002. Reconciliation in the House ofRepresentatives.

                        TITLE III--RESERVE FUNDS

Sec. 3001. Deficit-neutral reserve fund for health carelegislation.

[[Page H511]]

Sec. 3002. Reserve fund for health care legislation.

                        TITLE IV--OTHER MATTERS

Sec. 4001. Enforcementfiling.
Sec. 4002. Budgetary treatment of administrative expenses.
Sec. 4003. Application and effect of changes inallocations and 
              aggregates.
Sec. 4004. Exercise of rulemaking powers.

                 TITLEI--RECOMMENDED LEVELS AND AMOUNTS

               Subtitle A--Budgetary Levels in BothHouses

     SEC. 1101. RECOMMENDED LEVELS AND AMOUNTS.

       The following budgetary levels areappropriate for each of 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2026:
       (1) Federal revenues.--For purposes of the enforcement of 
     thisresolution:
       (A) The recommended levels of Federal revenues are as 
     follows:
       Fiscal year 2017:$2,682,088,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018: $2,787,834,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019: $2,884,637,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:$3,012,645,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021: $3,131,369,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022: $3,262,718,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:$3,402,888,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024: $3,556,097,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025: $3,727,756,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:$3,903,628,000,000.
       (B) The amounts by which the aggregate levels of Federal 
     revenues should be changed are asfollows:
       Fiscal year 2017: $0.
       Fiscal year 2018: $0.
       Fiscal year 2019: $0.
       Fiscal year 2020:$0.
       Fiscal year 2021: $0.
       Fiscal year 2022: $0.
       Fiscal year 2023: $0.
       Fiscal year 2024: $0.
       Fiscal year2025: $0.
       Fiscal year 2026: $0.
       (2) New budget authority.--For purposes of the enforcement 
     of this resolution, theappropriate levels of total new budget 
     authority are as follows:
       Fiscal year 2017: $3,308,000,000,000.
       Fiscal year2018: $3,350,010,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019: $3,590,479,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020: $3,779,449,000,000.
       Fiscal year2021: $3,947,834,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022: $4,187,893,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023: $4,336,952,000,000.
       Fiscal year2024: $4,473,818,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025: $4,726,484,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026: $4,961,154,000,000.
       (3) Budgetoutlays.--For purposes of the enforcement of this 
     resolution, the appropriate levels of total budget outlays 
     are asfollows:
       Fiscal year 2017: $3,264,662,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018: $3,329,394,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:$3,558,237,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020: $3,741,304,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021: $3,916,533,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:$4,159,803,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023: $4,295,742,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024: $4,419,330,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:$4,673,813,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026: $4,912,205,000,000.
       (4) Deficits.--For purposes of the enforcement of 
     thisresolution, the amounts of the deficits are as follows:
       Fiscal year 2017: $582,574,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:$541,560,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019: $673,600,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020: $728,659,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:$785,164,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022: $897,085,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023: $892,854,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:$863,233,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025: $946,057,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026: $1,008,577,000,000.
       (5) Publicdebt.--Pursuant to section 301(a)(5) of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 632(a)(5)), the 
     appropriate levels ofthe public debt are as follows:
       Fiscal year 2017: $20,034,788,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:$20,784,183,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019: $21,625,729,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020: $22,504,763,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:$23,440,271,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022: $24,509,421,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023: $25,605,527,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:$26,701,273,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025: $27,869,175,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026: $29,126,158,000,000.
       (6) Debt heldby the public.--The appropriate levels of debt 
     held by the public are as follows:
       Fiscal year 2017:$14,593,316,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018: $15,198,740,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019: $15,955,144,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:$16,791,740,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021: $17,713,599,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022: $18,787,230,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:$19,901,290,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024: $21,033,163,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025: $22,301,661,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:$23,691,844,000,000.

     SEC. 1102. MAJOR FUNCTIONAL CATEGORIES.

       Congress determines anddeclares that the appropriate levels 
     of new budget authority and outlays for fiscal years 2017 
     through 2026 for each majorfunctional category are:
       (1) National Defense (050):
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A) New budget authority,$623,910,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $603,716,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority,$618,347,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $601,646,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority,$632,742,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $617,943,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority,$648,198,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $632,435,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority,$663,703,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $646,853,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority,$679,968,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $666,926,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority,$696,578,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $678,139,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority,$713,664,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $689,531,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority,$731,228,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $711,423,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority,$750,069,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $729,616,000,000.
       (2) International Affairs (150):
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A) Newbudget authority, $61,996,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $51,907,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority,$60,099,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $53,541,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $61,097,000,000.
       (B)Outlays, $55,800,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $60,686,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$57,690,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $61,085,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$58,756,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $62,576,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$60,205,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $64,141,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$61,513,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $65,588,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$62,705,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $67,094,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$63,915,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $68,692,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $65,305,000,000.
       (3)General Science, Space, and Technology (250):
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A) New budget authority, $31,562,000,000.
       (B)Outlays, $30,988,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, $32,787,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$32,225,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $33,476,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$32,978,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $34,202,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$33,645,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $34,961,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$34,313,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $35,720,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$35,038,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $36,516,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$35,812,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $37,318,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$36,580,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $38,151,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$37,393,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $39,021,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $38,238,000,000.
       (4)Energy (270):
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A) New budget authority, $4,773,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $3,455,000,000.
       Fiscalyear 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, $4,509,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $3,495,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) Newbudget authority, $4,567,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $4,058,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority,$4,975,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $4,456,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $5,109,000,000.
       (B)Outlays, $4,523,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $5,019,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$4,332,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $4,083,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $3,337,000,000.
       Fiscalyear 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $3,590,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $2,796,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) Newbudget authority, $3,608,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $2,755,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority,$5,955,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $5,124,000,000.
       (5) Natural Resources and Environment (300):
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A)New budget authority, $41,264,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $42,254,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority,$43,738,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $44,916,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $44,486,000,000.
       (B)Outlays, $45,425,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $46,201,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$46,647,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $47,126,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$47,457,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $48,203,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$48,388,000,000.

[[Page H512]]

       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $49,403,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$49,536,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $50,497,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$50,055,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $51,761,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$51,164,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $53,017,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $51,915,000,000.
       (6)Agriculture (350):
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A) New budget authority, $25,214,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$24,728,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, $26,148,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$24,821,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $23,483,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$21,927,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $22,438,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$21,751,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $22,834,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$22,179,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $22,600,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$21,984,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $23,037,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$22,437,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $23,018,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$22,409,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $23,343,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$22,714,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $23,812,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $23,192,000,000.
       (7)Commerce and Housing Credit (370):
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A) New budget authority, $14,696,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$666,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, $16,846,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $1,378,000,000.
       Fiscalyear 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $18,171,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $5,439,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) Newbudget authority, $15,799,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $2,666,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority,$14,821,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $915,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $15,408,000,000.
       (B)Outlays, $674,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $15,739,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,-$840,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $16,143,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$1,688,000,000.
       Fiscalyear 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $17,889,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$2,003,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) Newbudget authority, $17,772,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$2,238,000,000.
       (8) Transportation (400):
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A)New budget authority, $92,782,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $91,684,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority,$94,400,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $93,214,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $96,522,000,000.
       (B)Outlays, $95,683,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $91,199,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$97,992,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $92,154,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$99,772,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $93,111,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$101,692,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $94,118,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$103,431,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $95,143,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$105,313,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $96,209,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$107,374,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $97,323,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$109,188,000,000.
       (9) Community and Regional Development (450):
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A) New budget authority,$19,723,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $22,477,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, $19,228,000,000.
       (B)Outlays, $21,277,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $19,457,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$20,862,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $19,941,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$20,011,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $20,384,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$21,048,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $20,825,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$19,831,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $21,288,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$19,535,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $21,756,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$19,787,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $22,245,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$19,285,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $22,751,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $20,037,000,000.
       (10)Education, Training, Employment, and Social Services 
     (500):
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A) New budget authority,$104,433,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $104,210,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority,$108,980,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $112,802,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority,$112,424,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $110,765,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority,$114,905,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $113,377,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority,$116,921,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $115,591,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority,$119,027,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $117,545,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority,$121,298,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $119,761,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority,$123,621,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $122,001,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority,$126,016,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $124,359,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority,$128,391,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $126,748,000,000.
       (11) Health (550):
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A) New budget authority,$562,137,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $560,191,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority,$583,006,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $593,197,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority,$615,940,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $618,089,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority,$655,892,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $645,814,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority,$677,902,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $676,781,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority,$711,176,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $709,301,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority,$744,335,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $742,568,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority,$780,899,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $778,293,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority,$818,388,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $815,246,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority,$857,176,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $853,880,000,000.
       (12) Medicare (570):
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A) New budgetauthority, $600,857,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $600,836,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority,$600,832,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $600,762,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority,$667,638,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $667,571,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority,$716,676,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $716,575,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority,$767,911,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $767,814,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority,$862,042,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $861,941,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority,$886,515,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $886,407,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority,$903,861,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $903,750,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority,$1,007,624,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $1,007,510,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority,$1,085,293,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $1,085,173,000,000.
       (13) Income Security (600):
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A) Newbudget authority, $518,181,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $511,658,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority,$524,233,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $511,612,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority,$542,725,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $534,067,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority,$558,241,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $549,382,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority,$571,963,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $563,481,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority,$590,120,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $587,572,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority,$599,505,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $592,338,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority,$609,225,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $597,287,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority,$630,433,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $619,437,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority,$646,660,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $641,957,000,000.
       (14) Social Security (650):
       Fiscal year 2017:

[[Page H513]]

       (A) Newbudget authority, $37,199,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $37,227,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority,$40,124,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $40,141,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $43,373,000,000.
       (B)Outlays, $43,373,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $46,627,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$46,627,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $50,035,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$50,035,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $53,677,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$53,677,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $57,540,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$57,540,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $61,645,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$61,645,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $66,076,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$66,076,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $70,376,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $70,376,000,000.
       (15)Veterans Benefits and Services (700):
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A) New budget authority, $177,448,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$182,448,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, $178,478,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$179,109,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $193,088,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$192,198,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $199,907,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$198,833,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $206,700,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$205,667,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $223,542,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$222,308,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $221,861,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$220,563,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $219,382,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$218,147,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $237,641,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$236,254,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $245,565,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$244,228,000,000.
       (16) Administration of Justice (750):
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A) New budget authority,$64,519,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $58,662,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, $62,423,000,000.
       (B)Outlays, $63,800,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $62,600,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$66,596,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $64,168,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$69,555,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $65,134,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$68,538,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $66,776,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$67,691,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $68,489,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$68,466,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $70,227,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$69,976,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $72,023,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$71,615,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $79,932,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $80,205,000,000.
       (17)General Government (800):
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A) New budget authority, $25,545,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$24,318,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, $27,095,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$25,884,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $27,620,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$26,584,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $28,312,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$27,576,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $29,046,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$28,366,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $29,787,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$29,149,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $30,519,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$29,886,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $31,101,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$30,494,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $31,942,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$31,248,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $32,789,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $32,071,000,000.
       (18)Net Interest (900):
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A) New budget authority, $393,295,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$393,295,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, $453,250,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$453,250,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $526,618,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$526,618,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $590,571,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$590,571,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $645,719,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$645,719,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $698,101,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$698,101,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $755,288,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$755,288,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $806,202,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$806,202,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $854,104,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$854,104,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $903,443,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$903,443,000,000.
       (19) Allowances (920):
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A) New budget authority, -$3,849,000,000.
       (B)Outlays, $7,627,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, -$56,166,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,-$39,329,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, -$55,423,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,-$47,614,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, -$58,021,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,-$52,831,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, -$61,491,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,-$57,092,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, -$63,493,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,-$60,260,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, -$65,783,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,-$62,457,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, -$67,817,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,-$64,708,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, -$70,127,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,-$66,892,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, -$69,097,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,-$68,467,000,000.
       (20) Undistributed Offsetting Receipts (950):
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A) New budget authority,-$87,685,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$87,685,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority,-$88,347,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$88,347,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority,-$80,125,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$80,125,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority,-$81,468,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$81,468,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority,-$84,183,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$84,183,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority,-$86,292,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$86,292,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority,-$87,518,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$87,518,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority,-$91,245,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$91,245,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority,-$99,164,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$99,164,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority,-$97,786,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$97,786,000,000.

              Subtitle B--Levels and Amounts in theSenate

     SEC. 1201. SOCIAL SECURITY IN THE SENATE.

       (a) Social Security Revenues.--Forpurposes of Senate 
     enforcement under sections 302 and 311 of the Congressional 
     Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 633 and 642), theamounts of 
     revenues of the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust 
     Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fundare as 
     follows:
       Fiscal year 2017: $826,048,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018: $857,618,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:$886,810,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020: $918,110,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021: $950,341,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:$984,537,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023: $1,020,652,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024: $1,058,799,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:$1,097,690,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026: $1,138,243,000,000.
       (b) Social Security Outlays.--For purposes of 
     Senateenforcement under sections 302 and 311 of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 633 and 642), the 
     amounts of outlays ofthe Federal Old-Age and Survivors 
     Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance 
     Trust Fund are asfollows:
       Fiscal year 2017: $805,366,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018: $857,840,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:$916,764,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020: $980,634,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021: $1,049,127,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:$1,123,266,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023: $1,200,734,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024: $1,281,840,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:$1,369,403,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026: $1,463,057,000,000.
       (c) Social Security Administrative Expenses.--In theSenate, 
     the amounts of new budget authority and budget outlays of the 
     Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund and 
     theFederal Disability Insurance Trust Fund for administrative 
     expenses are as follows:
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A) New budgetauthority, $5,663,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $5,673,000,000.

[[Page H514]]

       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority,$6,021,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $5,987,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $6,205,000,000.
       (B)Outlays, $6,170,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $6,393,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$6,357,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $6,589,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $6,552,000,000.
       Fiscalyear 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $6,787,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $6,750,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) Newbudget authority, $6,992,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $6,953,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority,$7,206,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $7,166,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $7,428,000,000.
       (B)Outlays, $7,387,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $7,659,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$7,615,000,000.

     SEC. 1202. POSTAL SERVICE DISCRETIONARY ADMINISTRATIVE 
                   EXPENSES IN THESENATE.

       In the Senate, the amounts of new budget authority and 
     budget outlays of the Postal Service for 
     discretionaryadministrative expenses are as follows:
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A) New budget authority, $274,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$273,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, $283,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $283,000,000.
       Fiscal year2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $294,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $294,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budgetauthority, $304,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $304,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority,$315,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $315,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $326,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$325,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $337,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $337,000,000.
       Fiscal year2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $350,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $349,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budgetauthority, $361,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $360,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority,$374,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $373,000,000.

                        TITLE II--RECONCILIATION

     SEC. 2001. RECONCILIATION IN THE SENATE.

       (a) Committee on Finance.--The Committee on Finance of the 
     Senateshall report changes in laws within its jurisdiction to 
     reduce the deficit by not less than $1,000,000,000 for the 
     period offiscal years 2017 through 2026.
       (b) Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.--
     The Committee on Health,Education, Labor, and Pensions of the 
     Senate shall report changes in laws within its jurisdiction 
     to reduce the deficit by notless than $1,000,000,000 for the 
     period of fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
       (c) Submissions.--In the Senate, not laterthan January 27, 
     2017, the Committees named in subsections (a) and (b) shall 
     submit their recommendations to the Committee onthe Budget of 
     the Senate. Upon receiving all such recommendations, the 
     Committee on the Budget of the Senate shall report to 
     theSenate a reconciliation bill carrying out all such 
     recommendations without any substantive revision.

     SEC. 2002. RECONCILIATION IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.

       (a) Committee on Energy and Commerce.--The Committeeon 
     Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives shall 
     submit changes in laws within its jurisdiction to reduce 
     thedeficit by not less than $1,000,000,000 for the period of 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
       (b) Committee on Ways andMeans.--The Committee on Ways and 
     Means of the House of Representatives shall submit changes in 
     laws within its jurisdiction toreduce the deficit by not less 
     than $1,000,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2017 
     through 2026.
       (c)Submissions.--In the House of Representatives, not later 
     than January 27, 2017, the committees named in subsections 
     (a) and(b) shall submit their recommendations to the 
     Committee on the Budget of the House of Representatives to 
     carry out thissection.

                        TITLE III--RESERVE FUNDS

     SEC. 3001. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND FOR HEALTH CARE 
                   LEGISLATION.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     and the Chairmanof the Committee on the Budget of the House 
     of Representatives may revise the allocations of a committee 
     or committees,aggregates, and other appropriate levels in 
     this resolution, and, in the Senate, make adjustments to the 
     pay-as-you-go ledger,for--
       (1) in the Senate, one or more bills, joint resolutions, 
     amendments, amendments between the Houses, conference 
     reports,or motions related to health care by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for that purpose, provided that 
     such legislationwould not increase the deficit over the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 2026; and
       (2) in the House ofRepresentatives, one or more bills, 
     joint resolutions, amendments, or conference reports related 
     to health care by the amountsprovided in such legislation for 
     that purpose, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over the period ofthe total of fiscal 
     years 2017 through 2026.

     SEC. 3002. RESERVE FUND FOR HEALTH CARELEGISLATION.

       (a) In General.--The Chairman of the Committee on the 
     Budget of the Senate and the Chairman of theCommittee on the 
     Budget of the House of Representatives may revise the 
     allocations of a committee or committees, aggregates, 
     andother appropriate levels in this resolution, and, in the 
     Senate, make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for--
       (1) inthe Senate, one or more bills, joint resolutions, 
     amendments, amendments between the Houses, conference 
     reports, or motionsrelated to health care by the amounts 
     necessary to accommodate the budgetary effects of the 
     legislation, provided that the costof such legislation, when 
     combined with the cost of any other measure with respect to 
     which the Chairman has exercised theauthority under this 
     paragraph, does not exceed the difference obtained by 
     subtracting--
       (A) $2,000,000,000; from
       (B) thesum of deficit reduction over the period of the 
     total of fiscal years 2017 through 2026 achieved under any 
     measure or measureswith respect to which the Chairman has 
     exercised the authority under section 3001(1); and
       (2) in the House ofRepresentatives, one or more bills, 
     joint resolutions, amendments, or conference reports related 
     to health care by the amountsnecessary to accommodate the 
     budgetary effects of the legislation, provided that the cost 
     of such legislation, when combinedwith the cost of any other 
     measure with respect to which the Chairman has exercised the 
     authority under this paragraph, does notexceed the difference 
     obtained by subtracting--
       (A) $2,000,000,000; from
       (B) the sum of deficit reduction over the periodof the 
     total of fiscal years 2017 through 2026 achieved under any 
     measure or measures with respect to which the Chairman 
     hasexercised the authority under section 3001(2).
       (b) Exceptions From Certain Provisions.--Section 404(a) of 
     S. Con. Res.13 (111th Congress), the concurrent resolution on 
     the budget for fiscal year 2010, and section 3101 of S. Con. 
     Res. 11 (114thCongress), the concurrent resolution on the 
     budget for fiscal year 2016, shall not apply to legislation 
     for which the Chairmanof the Committee on the Budget of the 
     applicable House has exercised the authority under subsection 
     (a).

                        TITLE IV--OTHER MATTERS

     SEC. 4001. ENFORCEMENT FILING.

       (a) In theSenate.--If this concurrent resolution on the 
     budget is agreed to by the Senate and House of 
     Representatives without theappointment of a committee of 
     conference on the disagreeing votes of the two Houses, the 
     Chairman of the Committee on the Budgetof the Senate may 
     submit a statement for publication in the Congressional 
     Record containing--
       (1) for the Committee onAppropriations, committee 
     allocations for fiscal year 2017 consistent with the levels 
     in title I for the purpose of enforcingsection 302 of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 633); and
       (2) for all committees other than the Committee 
     onAppropriations, committee allocations for fiscal years 
     2017, 2017 through 2021, and 2017 through 2026 consistent 
     with the levelsin title I for the purpose of enforcing 
     section 302 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 
     633).
       (b) In theHouse of Representatives.--In the House of 
     Representatives, if a concurrent resolution on the budget for 
     fiscal year 2017 isadopted without the appointment of a 
     committee of conference on the disagreeing votes of the two 
     Houses with respect to thisconcurrent resolution on the 
     budget, for the purpose of enforcing the Congressional Budget 
     Act and applicable rules andrequirements set forth in the 
     concurrent resolution on the budget, the allocations provided 
     for in this subsection shall applyin the House of 
     Representatives in the same manner as if such allocations 
     were in a joint explanatory statement accompanying 
     aconference report on the budget for fiscal year 2017. The 
     Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the House 
     ofRepresentatives shall submit a statement for publication in 
     the Congressional Record containing--
       (1) for the Committee onAppropriations, committee 
     allocations for fiscal year 2017 consistent with title I for 
     the purpose of enforcing section 302 ofthe Congressional 
     Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 633); and
       (2) for all committees other than the Committee on 
     Appropriations,committee allocations consistent with title I 
     for fiscal year 2017 and for the period of fiscal years 2017 
     through 2026 for thepurpose of enforcing 302 of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 633).

     SEC. 4002.BUDGETARY TREATMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.

       (a) In General.--Notwithstanding section 302(a)(1) of the 
     CongressionalBudget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 633(a)(1)), section 
     13301 of the Budget Enforcement Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 632 
     note), and section2009a of title 39, United States Code, the 
     report accompanying this concurrent resolution on the budget, 
     the joint explanatorystatement accompanying the conference 
     report on any concurrent resolution on the budget, or a 
     statement filed

[[Page H515]]

     undersection 4001 shall include in an allocation under 
     section 302(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 to the 
     Committee onAppropriations of the applicable House of 
     Congress amounts for the discretionary administrative 
     expenses of the Social SecurityAdministration and the United 
     States Postal Service.
       (b) Special Rule.--In the Senate and the House of 
     Representatives,for purposes of enforcing section 302(f) of 
     the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 633(f)), 
     estimates of the level oftotal new budget authority and total 
     outlays provided by a measure shall include any discretionary 
     amounts described insubsection (a).

     SEC. 4003. APPLICATION AND EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ALLOCATIONS 
                   ANDAGGREGATES.

       (a) Application.--Any adjustments of allocations and 
     aggregates made pursuant to this concurrent resolutionshall--
       (1) apply while that measure is under consideration;
       (2) take effect upon the enactment of that measure;and
       (3) be published in the Congressional Record as soon as 
     practicable.
       (b) Effect of Changed Allocations andAggregates.--Revised 
     allocations and aggregates resulting from these adjustments 
     shall be considered for the purposes of theCongressional 
     Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 621 et seq.) as the allocations 
     and aggregates contained in this concurrentresolution.
       (c) Budget Committee Determinations.--For purposes of this 
     concurrent resolution, the levels of new budgetauthority, 
     outlays, direct spending, new entitlement authority, 
     revenues, deficits, and surpluses for a fiscal year or period 
     offiscal years shall be determined on the basis of estimates 
     made by the Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the 
     applicableHouse of Congress.
       (d) Aggregates, Allocations and Application.--In the House 
     of Representatives, for purposes of thisconcurrent resolution 
     and budget enforcement, the consideration of any bill or 
     joint resolution, or amendment thereto orconference report 
     thereon, for which the Chairman of the Committee on the 
     Budget of the House of Representatives makesadjustments or 
     revisions in the allocations, aggregates, and other budgetary 
     levels of this concurrent resolution shall not besubject to 
     the points of order set forth in clause 10 of rule XXI of the 
     Rules of the House of Representatives or section 3101of S. 
     Con. Res. 11 (114th Congress).

     SEC. 4004. EXERCISE OF RULEMAKING POWERS.

       Congressadopts the provisions of this title--
       (1) as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the Senate 
     and the House ofRepresentatives, respectively, and as such 
     they shall be considered as part of the rules of each House 
     or of that House to whichthey specifically apply, and such 
     rules shall supersede other rules only to the extent that 
     they are inconsistent with suchother rules; and
       (2) with full recognition of the constitutional right of 
     either the Senate or the House of Representativesto change 
     those rules (insofar as they relate to that House) at any 
     time, in the same manner, and to the same extent as is 
     thecase of any other rule of the Senate or House of 
     Representatives.

  The CHAIR. No amendment shall be in order except the amendment 
printed House Report 115-4.
  Such amendment may be offered only by the Member designated in the 
report, shall be considered as read, and shall bedebatable for the time 
specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent 
and an opponent.


                 Amendment No. 1 Offered by Mr. Yarmuth

  The CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 1 printed in 
House Report 115-4.
  Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment in the nature of a 
substitute.
  The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Strike all after the resolving clause and insert the 
     following:

     SECTION 1.CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 
                   2017.

       (a) Declaration.--Congress declares that this resolution 
     isthe concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 
     2017 and that this resolution sets forth the appropriate 
     budgetarylevels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026.
       (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this 
     concurrent resolutionis as follows:
       Sec. 1. Concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 
           2017.

                 TITLEI--RECOMMENDED LEVELS AND AMOUNTS

               Subtitle A--Budgetary Levels in BothHouses

       Sec. 1101. Recommended levels and amounts.
       Sec. 1102. Major functional categories.

              Subtitle B--Levels and Amounts in the Senate

       Sec. 1201. Social Security in the Senate.
       Sec. 1202. Postal Servicediscretionary administrative 
           expenses in the Senate.

                         TITLE II--RESERVEFUND

       Sec. 2001. Deficit-neutral reserve fund for job creation, 
           infrastructure investment, and tax reform.

                        TITLE III--OTHER MATTERS

       Sec. 3001. Budgetary treatment of administrativeexpenses.
       Sec. 3002. Application and effect of changes in allocations 
           and aggregates.
       Sec. 3003. Exercise of rulemakingpowers.

                TITLE I--RECOMMENDED LEVELS AND AMOUNTS

              Subtitle A--Budgetary Levels in Both Houses

     SEC. 1101. RECOMMENDED LEVELS ANDAMOUNTS.

       The following budgetary levels are appropriate for each of 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2026:
       (1) Federalrevenues.--For purposes of the enforcement of 
     this resolution:
       (A) The recommended levels of Federal revenues are 
     asfollows:
       Fiscal year 2017: $2,682,088,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018: $2,787,834,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:$2,884,637,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020: $3,012,645,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021: $3,131,369,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:$3,262,718,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023: $3,402,888,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024: $3,556,097,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:$3,727,756,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026: $3,903,628,000,000.
       (B) The amounts by which the aggregate levels of 
     Federalrevenues should be changed are as follows:
       Fiscal year 2017: $0.
       Fiscal year 2018: $0.
       Fiscal year 2019:$0.
       Fiscal year 2020: $0.
       Fiscal year 2021: $0.
       Fiscal year 2022: $0.
       Fiscal year 2023: $0.
       Fiscal year2024: $0.
       Fiscal year 2025: $0.
       Fiscal year 2026: $0.
       (2) New budget authority.--For purposes of the 
     enforcementof this resolution, the appropriate levels of 
     total new budget authority are as follows:
       Fiscal year 2017:$3,308,000,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018: $3,350,010,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019: $3,590,479,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:$3,779,449,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021: $3,947,834,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022: $4,187,893,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:$4,336,952,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024: $4,473,818,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025: $4,726,484,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:$4,963,189,000,000.
       (3) Budget outlays.--For purposes of the enforcement of 
     this resolution, the appropriate levels oftotal budget 
     outlays are as follows:
       Fiscal year 2017: $3,264,662,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:$3,329,394,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019: $3,558,237,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020: $3,741,304,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:$3,916,533,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022: $4,159,803,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023: $4,295,742,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:$4,419,330,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025: $4,673,813,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026: $4,914,240,000,000.
       (4)Deficits.--For purposes of the enforcement of this 
     resolution, the amounts of the deficits are as follows:
       Fiscalyear 2017: $582,574,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018: $541,560,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019: $673,600,000,000.
       Fiscal year2020: $728,659,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021: $785,164,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022: $897,085,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:$892,854,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024: $863,233,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025: $946,057,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:$1,010,612,000,000.
       (5) Public debt.--Pursuant to section 301(a)(5) of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C.632(a)(5)), the 
     appropriate levels of the public debt are as follows:
       Fiscal year 2017:$20,034,788,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018: $20,784,183,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019: $21,625,729,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:$22,504,763,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021: $23,440,271,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022: $24,509,421,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:$25,605,527,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024: $26,701,273,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025: $27,869,175,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:$29,128,193,000,000.
       (6) Debt held by the public.--The appropriate levels of 
     debt held by the public are asfollows:
       Fiscal year 2017: $14,593,316,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018: $15,198,740,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:$15,955,144,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020: $16,791,740,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021: $17,713,599,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:$18,787,230,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023: $19,901,290,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024: $21,033,163,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:$22,301,661,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026: $23,693,879,000,000.

     SEC. 1102. MAJOR FUNCTIONALCATEGORIES.

       Congress determines and declares that the appropriate 
     levels of new budget authority and outlays for fiscalyears 
     2017 through 2026 for each major functional category are:
       (1) National Defense (050):
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A)New budget authority, $623,910,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $603,716,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority,$618,347,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $601,646,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority,$632,742,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $617,943,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority,$648,198,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $632,435,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:

[[Page H516]]

       (A) New budget authority,$663,703,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $646,853,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority,$679,968,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $666,926,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority,$696,578,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $678,139,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority,$713,664,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $689,531,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority,$731,228,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $711,423,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority,$750,069,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $729,616,000,000.
       (2) International Affairs (150):
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A) Newbudget authority, $61,996,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $51,907,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority,$60,099,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $53,541,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $61,097,000,000.
       (B)Outlays, $55,800,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $60,686,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$57,690,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $61,085,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$58,756,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $62,576,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$60,205,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $64,141,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$61,513,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $65,588,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$62,705,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $67,094,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$63,915,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $68,692,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $65,305,000,000.
       (3)General Science, Space, and Technology (250):
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A) New budget authority, $31,562,000,000.
       (B)Outlays, $30,988,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, $32,787,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$32,225,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $33,476,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$32,978,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $34,202,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$33,645,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $34,961,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$34,313,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $35,720,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$35,038,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $36,516,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$35,812,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $37,318,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$36,580,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $38,151,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$37,393,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $39,021,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $38,238,000,000.
       (4)Energy (270):
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A) New budget authority, $4,773,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $3,455,000,000.
       Fiscalyear 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, $4,509,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $3,495,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) Newbudget authority, $4,567,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $4,058,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority,$4,975,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $4,456,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $5,109,000,000.
       (B)Outlays, $4,523,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $5,019,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$4,332,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $4,083,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $3,337,000,000.
       Fiscalyear 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $3,590,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $2,796,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) Newbudget authority, $3,608,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $2,755,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority,$5,955,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $5,124,000,000.
       (5) Natural Resources and Environment (300):
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A)New budget authority, $41,264,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $42,254,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority,$43,738,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $44,916,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $44,486,000,000.
       (B)Outlays, $45,425,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $46,201,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$46,647,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $47,126,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$47,457,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $48,203,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$48,388,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $49,403,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$49,536,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $50,497,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$50,055,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $51,761,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$51,164,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $53,017,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $51,915,000,000.
       (6)Agriculture (350):
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A) New budget authority, $25,214,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$24,728,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, $26,148,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$24,821,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $23,483,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$21,927,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $22,438,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$21,751,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $22,834,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$22,179,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $22,600,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$21,984,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $23,037,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$22,437,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $23,018,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$22,409,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $23,343,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$22,714,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $23,812,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $23,192,000,000.
       (7)Commerce and Housing Credit (370):
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A) New budget authority, $14,696,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$666,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, $16,846,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $1,378,000,000.
       Fiscalyear 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $18,171,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $5,439,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) Newbudget authority, $15,799,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $2,666,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority,$14,821,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $915,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $15,408,000,000.
       (B)Outlays, $674,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $15,739,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,-$840,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $16,143,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$1,688,000,000.
       Fiscalyear 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $17,889,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$2,003,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) Newbudget authority, $17,772,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$2,238,000,000.
       (8) Transportation (400):
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A)New budget authority, $92,782,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $91,684,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority,$94,400,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $93,214,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $96,522,000,000.
       (B)Outlays, $95,683,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $91,199,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$97,992,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $92,154,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$99,772,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $93,111,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$101,692,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $94,118,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$103,431,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $95,143,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$105,313,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $96,209,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$107,374,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $97,323,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$109,188,000,000.
       (9) Community and Regional Development (450):
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A) New budget authority,$19,723,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $22,477,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, $19,228,000,000.
       (B)Outlays, $21,277,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $19,457,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$20,862,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $19,941,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$20,011,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $20,384,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$21,048,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $20,825,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$19,831,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $21,288,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$19,535,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $21,756,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$19,787,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $22,245,000,000.

[[Page H517]]

       (B) Outlays,$19,285,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $22,751,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $20,037,000,000.
       (10)Education, Training, Employment, and Social Services 
     (500):
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A) New budget authority,$104,433,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $104,210,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority,$108,980,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $112,802,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority,$112,424,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $110,765,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority,$114,905,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $113,377,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority,$116,921,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $115,591,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority,$119,027,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $117,545,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority,$121,298,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $119,761,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority,$123,621,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $122,001,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority,$126,016,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $124,359,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority,$128,391,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $126,748,000,000.
       (11) Health (550):
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A) New budget authority,$562,137,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $560,191,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority,$583,006,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $593,197,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority,$615,940,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $618,089,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority,$655,892,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $645,814,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority,$677,902,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $676,781,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority,$711,176,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $709,301,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority,$744,335,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $742,568,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority,$780,899,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $778,293,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority,$818,388,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $815,246,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority,$857,176,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $853,880,000,000.
       (12) Medicare (570):
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A) New budgetauthority, $600,857,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $600,836,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority,$600,832,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $600,762,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority,$667,638,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $667,571,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority,$716,676,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $716,575,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority,$767,911,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $767,814,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority,$862,042,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $861,941,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority,$886,515,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $886,407,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority,$903,861,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $903,750,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority,$1,007,624,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $1,007,510,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority,$1,085,293,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $1,085,173,000,000.
       (13) Income Security (600):
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A) Newbudget authority, $518,181,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $511,658,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority,$524,233,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $511,612,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority,$542,725,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $534,067,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority,$558,241,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $549,382,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority,$571,963,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $563,481,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority,$590,120,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $587,572,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority,$599,505,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $592,338,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority,$609,225,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $597,287,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority,$630,433,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $619,437,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority,$646,660,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $641,957,000,000.
       (14) Social Security (650):
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A) New budgetauthority, $37,199,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $37,227,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority,$40,124,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $40,141,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $43,373,000,000.
       (B)Outlays, $43,373,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $46,627,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$46,627,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $50,035,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$50,035,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $53,677,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$53,677,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $57,540,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$57,540,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $61,645,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$61,645,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $66,076,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$66,076,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $70,376,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $70,376,000,000.
       (15)Veterans Benefits and Services (700):
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A) New budget authority, $177,448,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$182,448,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, $178,478,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$179,109,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $193,088,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$192,198,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $199,907,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$198,833,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $206,700,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$205,667,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $223,542,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$222,308,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $221,861,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$220,563,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $219,382,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$218,147,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $237,641,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$236,254,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $245,565,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$244,228,000,000.
       (16) Administration of Justice (750):
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A) New budget authority,$64,519,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $58,662,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, $62,423,000,000.
       (B)Outlays, $63,800,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $62,600,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$66,596,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $64,168,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$69,555,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $65,134,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$68,538,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $66,776,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$67,691,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $68,489,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$68,466,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $70,227,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$69,976,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $72,023,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$71,615,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $79,932,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $80,205,000,000.
       (17)General Government (800):
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A) New budget authority, $25,545,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$24,318,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, $27,095,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$25,884,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $27,620,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$26,584,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $28,312,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$27,576,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $29,046,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$28,366,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $29,787,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$29,149,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $30,519,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$29,886,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $31,101,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$30,494,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $31,942,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$31,248,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $32,789,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $32,071,000,000.
       (18)Net Interest (900):
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A) New budget authority, $393,295,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$393,295,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, $453,250,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$453,250,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $526,618,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$526,618,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:

[[Page H518]]

       (A) New budget authority, $590,571,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$590,571,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $645,719,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$645,719,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $698,101,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$698,101,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $755,288,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$755,288,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $806,202,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$806,202,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $854,104,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$854,104,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $903,478,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$903,478,000,000.
       (19) Allowances (920):
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A) New budget authority, -$3,849,000,000.
       (B)Outlays, $7,627,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, -$56,166,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,-$39,329,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, -$55,423,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,-$47,614,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, -$58,021,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,-$52,831,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, -$61,491,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,-$57,092,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, -$63,493,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,-$60,260,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, -$65,783,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,-$62,457,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority, -$67,817,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,-$64,708,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, -$70,127,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,-$66,892,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, -$71,097,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,-$70,467,000,000.
       (20) Undistributed Offsetting Receipts (950):
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A) New budget authority,-$87,685,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$87,685,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority,-$88,347,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$88,347,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority,-$80,125,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$80,125,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority,-$81,468,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$81,468,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority,-$84,183,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$84,183,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority,-$86,292,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$86,292,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority,-$87,518,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$87,518,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority,-$91,245,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$91,245,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority,-$99,164,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$99,164,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority,-$97,786,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, -$97,786,000,000.

              Subtitle B--Levels and Amounts in theSenate

     SEC. 1201. SOCIAL SECURITY IN THE SENATE.

       (a) Social Security Revenues.--Forpurposes of Senate 
     enforcement under sections 302 and 311 of the Congressional 
     Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 633 and 642), theamounts of 
     revenues of the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust 
     Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fundare as 
     follows:
       Fiscal year 2017: $826,048,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018: $857,618,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:$886,810,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020: $918,110,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021: $950,341,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:$984,537,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023: $1,020,652,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024: $1,058,799,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:$1,097,690,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026: $1,138,243,000,000.
       (b) Social Security Outlays.--For purposes of 
     Senateenforcement under sections 302 and 311 of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 633 and 642), the 
     amounts of outlays ofthe Federal Old-Age and Survivors 
     Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance 
     Trust Fund are asfollows:
       Fiscal year 2017: $805,366,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018: $857,840,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:$916,764,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020: $980,634,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021: $1,049,127,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:$1,123,266,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023: $1,200,734,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024: $1,281,840,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:$1,369,403,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026: $1,463,057,000,000.
       (c) Social Security Administrative Expenses.--In theSenate, 
     the amounts of new budget authority and budget outlays of the 
     Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund and 
     theFederal Disability Insurance Trust Fund for administrative 
     expenses are as follows:
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A) New budgetauthority, $5,663,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $5,673,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority,$6,021,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $5,987,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $6,205,000,000.
       (B)Outlays, $6,170,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budget authority, $6,393,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$6,357,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority, $6,589,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $6,552,000,000.
       Fiscalyear 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $6,787,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $6,750,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) Newbudget authority, $6,992,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $6,953,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2024:
       (A) New budget authority,$7,206,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $7,166,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budget authority, $7,428,000,000.
       (B)Outlays, $7,387,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority, $7,659,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$7,615,000,000.

     SEC. 1202. POSTAL SERVICE DISCRETIONARY ADMINISTRATIVE 
                   EXPENSES IN THESENATE.

       In the Senate, the amounts of new budget authority and 
     budget outlays of the Postal Service for 
     discretionaryadministrative expenses are as follows:
       Fiscal year 2017:
       (A) New budget authority, $274,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$273,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2018:
       (A) New budget authority, $283,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $283,000,000.
       Fiscal year2019:
       (A) New budget authority, $294,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $294,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2020:
       (A) New budgetauthority, $304,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $304,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2021:
       (A) New budget authority,$315,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $315,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2022:
       (A) New budget authority, $326,000,000.
       (B) Outlays,$325,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2023:
       (A) New budget authority, $337,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $337,000,000.
       Fiscal year2024:
       (A) New budget authority, $350,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $349,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2025:
       (A) New budgetauthority, $361,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $360,000,000.
       Fiscal year 2026:
       (A) New budget authority,$374,000,000.
       (B) Outlays, $373,000,000.

                         TITLE II--RESERVE FUND

     SEC. 2001. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND FOR JOB CREATION, 
                   INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT, AND TAX REFORM.

       In theHouse of Representatives, the chair of the Committee 
     on the Budget may revise the allocations, aggregates, and 
     other appropriatelevels in this resolution for any bill, 
     joint resolution, amendment, or conference report that 
     provide job creation throughrobust Federal investments in 
     America's infrastructure and reforming the tax code to 
     provide relief for American families. Therevisions may be 
     made for any measure that--
       (1) provides for additional investments in highways, public 
     transit, rail,aviation, harbors, seaports, inland waterway 
     systems, public housing, broadband, energy, water, and other 
     job-creatinginfrastructure improvements, and
       (2) reforms the tax code to support hardworking American 
     families;
     by the amountsprovided in such measure if such measure does 
     not increase the deficit for either of the following time 
     periods: fiscal year2017 to fiscal year 2021 or fiscal year 
     2017 to fiscal year 2026.

                        TITLE III--OTHERMATTERS

     SEC. 3001. BUDGETARY TREATMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.

       (a) InGeneral.--Notwithstanding section 302(a)(1) of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 633(a)(1)), 
     section 13301 of theBudget Enforcement Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 
     632 note), and section 2009a of title 39, United States Code, 
     the report accompanyingthis concurrent resolution on the 
     budget, the joint explanatory statement accompanying the 
     conference report on any concurrentresolution on the budget, 
     shall include in an allocation under section 302(a) of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974 to theCommittee on 
     Appropriations of the applicable House of Congress amounts 
     for the discretionary administrative expenses of theSocial 
     Security Administration and the United States Postal Service.
       (b) Special Rule.--In the Senate and the House 
     ofRepresentatives, for purposes of enforcing section 302(f) 
     of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 633(f)), 
     estimatesof the level of total new budget authority and total 
     outlays provided by a measure shall include any discretionary 
     amountsdescribed in subsection (a).

     SEC. 3002. APPLICATION AND EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ALLOCATIONS 
                   ANDAGGREGATES.

       (a) Application.--Any adjustments of allocations and 
     aggregates made pursuant to this concurrent resolutionshall--
       (1) apply while that measure is under consideration;
       (2) take effect upon the enactment of that measure;and
       (3) be published in the Congressional Record as soon as 
     practicable.

[[Page H519]]

       (b) Effect of Changed Allocations andAggregates.--Revised 
     allocations and aggregates resulting from these adjustments 
     shall be considered for the purposes of theCongressional 
     Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 621 et seq.) as the allocations 
     and aggregates contained in this concurrentresolution.
       (c) Budget Committee Determinations.--For purposes of this 
     concurrent resolution, the levels of new budgetauthority, 
     outlays, direct spending, new entitlement authority, 
     revenues, deficits, and surpluses for a fiscal year or period 
     offiscal years shall be determined on the basis of estimates 
     made by the Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the 
     applicableHouse of Congress.

     SEC. 3003. EXERCISE OF RULEMAKING POWERS.

       Congress adopts theprovisions of this title--
       (1) as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the Senate 
     and the House of Representatives,respectively, and as such 
     they shall be considered as part of the rules of each House 
     or of that House to which theyspecifically apply, and such 
     rules shall supersede other rules only to the extent that 
     they are inconsistent with such otherrules; and
       (2) with full recognition of the constitutional right of 
     either the Senate or the House of Representatives tochange 
     those rules (insofar as they relate to that House) at any 
     time, in the same manner, and to the same extent as is the 
     caseof any other rule of the Senate or House of 
     Representatives.

  The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 48, the gentleman from 
Kentucky (Mr. Yarmuth) and a Member opposed each willcontrol 10 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Kentucky.
  Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Chairman, the Republican rush to eliminate the 
Affordable Care Act, to take health insurance from 30million Americans, 
introduce chaos into the health insurance market, and give millionaires 
and billionaires a giant tax cut ismisguided and does not reflect the 
values of the American people. On top of that, it can significantly 
damage our economy.
  Repeal will upend our Nation's healthcare system. Hospitals will see 
a spike in uncompensated care, leading to reducedservices, job cuts, or 
higher prices for every one. It will cost the Nation 2.6 million jobs 
in 2019 alone, including 44,000jobs in Kentucky. The hit to the economy 
will be in the trillions of dollars, and it will give corporations and 
the wealthyhundreds of billions of dollars of tax cuts.
  Repeal isn't about what is best for the American people. It is solely 
about politics and what is in the financial interestof the well-off and 
the well-connected. There is absolutely no logic to this.
  That said, if Republicans are determined to rush something through 
Congress right now using the budget process, we wouldsuggest a totally 
different approach. Let's look at areas where this Congress and this 
incoming administration can work togetherto address a pressing 
challenge facing the country.
  Members of both parties and the President-elect have expressed 
support for repairing our Nation's failing infrastructure,investing in 
our roads, bridges, ports, and other transportation needs to create 
jobs and build a stronger economic future. Thesubstitute I have offered 
today provides the budget procedures needed for such a bill to be 
considered.
  Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to support this alternative budget so 
we can move our Nation forward together.
  I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mrs. BLACK. Mr. Chairman, I claim the time in opposition.
  The CHAIR. The gentlewoman from Tennessee is recognized for 10 
minutes.
  Mrs. BLACK. Mr. Chairman, the Democratic substitute would guarantee 
that the American people continue to be harmed byObamaCare. It would 
ensure that insurance markets continue to collapse and that premiums 
and deductibles continue to rise andthat patients have less access to 
healthcare choices.
  At a time when we are trying to provide relief to the American people 
and protect them from a failed and broken status quo,this amendment 
ignores those who are suffering under the law. It ignores the 20 
million Americans who have either paid theObamaCare penalty or sought 
an exemption from it because the cost of complying with the law is 
either too costly or not worththeir trouble.
  This amendment tells those families who have seen their premiums go 
up dramatically--many, who are paying more and gettingless--that there 
is no relief in sight for you. What is more, the substitute does not 
include any reconciliation instructions,and it lacks the savings we 
achieve through our instructions.
  The bottom line is this: ObamaCare is collapsing. It is failing. The 
American people need relief. And in order to get themthat relief, we 
need to reject this amendment and get to work on patient-centered 
solutions for our Nation's healthcarechallenges.
  I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
Florida (Ms. Wasserman Schultz), a distinguishedmember of the Budget 
Committee.
  Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Chair, as a mother, a breast cancer 
survivor, and a proud Floridian, I rise today in strongopposition to 
the majority's irresponsible efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act. 
The facts speak for themselves:
  20 million Americans, including more than a million and a half 
Floridians, have obtained quality, affordable health caresince the ACA 
became law.
  129 million Americans, who, like me, have preexisting conditions, can 
no longer be discriminated against by their healthinsurance company.
  Our Nation's young adults now rest easy that they can stay on their 
parents' insurance until they are 26.
  Allow me to remind my colleagues on the other side of the aisle that 
we are elected to help Americans, not hurt Americans.Make no mistake, 
repealing the ACA will not only rip health care away from millions of 
Americans who have ObamaCare, but we oweit to the 155 million Americans 
with employer-based coverage to maintain the prohibition against annual 
and lifetime limits.
  Before the ACA, 105 million Americans, most of them with employer 
coverage, had a lifetime limit on their insurance policy.The ACA 
prohibits annual and lifetime limits on policies.
  We owe it to our seniors to stop the repeal of key new Medicare 
benefits. Repeal of these lifesaving provisions wouldactually increase 
prescription drug costs for millions of seniors in the doughnut hole 
who are currently saving more than $2,000on their drugs due to the ACA 
by reopening the gap in Medicare part D coverage.
  In addition, since enactment of the ACA, the solvency of the Medicare 
trust fund has been extended by 11 years. And we oweit to the 129 
million Americans like me with preexisting conditions, such as breast 
cancer survivors, to stop repeal so theycannot be dropped or denied 
coverage or charged an exorbitant premium by their insurance company.
  As a cancer survivor, I am also appalled that the Republican plan--or 
lack of a plan--would increase out-of-pocket costs forevery patient by 
requiring them once again to pay for preventative services like cancer 
screenings.
  Mr. Chairman, the assault on the well-being of our constituents is an 
outrage, and we will not take it lying down. We willfight tooth and 
nail for the established right of all Americans to have quality, 
affordable healthcarecoverage and not return to the days when it was 
available only as a privilege to those who could afford it or who were 
fortunateenough not to have a preexisting condition.

  Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Tennessee (Mr. Cohen), a distinguished member of theJudiciary 
Committee.
  Mr. COHEN. Mr. Chairman, I have been listening to the debate, and I 
see the buzzwords that have been used about the repealof the Affordable 
Care Act: ``patient-centered''--that sounds good--and ``against 
bureaucrats''--that sounds good. What they don'ttell you is that it is 
for the insurance companies.
  They say it leaves it patient-centered and for the people to deal 
with it, not the government--because the people will haveto deal with 
the insurance companies in the future. The people don't want to have to 
deal with insurance companies when theirclaims are denied, when they 
won't pay them, when they won't allow them to have certain procedures. 
That is what the Americanpeople are against.
  The Affordable Care Act was insurance reform on steroids. And you 
can't have all of the insurance reform on steroids withoutgovernment 
action looking out for the people versus the insurance companies.

[[Page H520]]

  They also don't tell you about rich people, who the other side is 
always concerned about, who could use tax credits and geta lot more 
money for their tax credits because they are at a higher tax rate than 
others. So, in essence, they are going to getmore out of this.
  What we ought to be doing--it is what this alternative budget is 
about--is trying to create jobs, jobs for people ininfrastructure, 
construction jobs for people out there in middle America.
  America used to be first in infrastructure, and now we are 28th in 
infrastructure. We need to have an infrastructure thatgets goods to 
market and goods to the public for sale. That helps create jobs 
further. Jobs is what is important, and it iswhere America used to be 
first--in infrastructure jobs.
  America has always been last in health care. We were the only 
industrialized country in the world without a nationalhealthcare 
policy, and the Republicans never wanted a national healthcare policy 
until now.
  So the Affordable Care Act did good because it woke the people up on 
the other side of the aisle to the fact that we neededto have a policy 
to make sure people got health care because they have never, ever cared 
about it.
  Teddy Roosevelt cared about it in their party. Richard Nixon cared 
about it in their party. Mitt Romney cared about it intheir party. But 
they were mute. They didn't say a word about it. All of a sudden--
because they found something they thought isgood.
  Two-thirds of the people in Tennessee like the Affordable Care Act. 
Don't repeal it.
  Pass this alternative budget and create jobs.
  Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Brendan F. Boyle), a new member ofthe Budget 
Committee.
  Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Chairman, it is interesting 
that after 6 years of the mantra of repeal andreplace, here we are. And 
we have repeal and maybe replace at some point when we get around to 
it; although, that shouldn't bevery surprising, considering.
  What is ObamaCare?
  More than 20 years ago, Senator Bob Dole, then the Republican leader 
of the Senate, and a group of his colleagues introducedthe Republican 
alternative to the then-Democratic plan to expand health insurance to 
some 40 million Americans who didn't haveit. The Republican plan 
hatched at the Heritage Foundation was, instead of expanding Medicare 
for all, let's instead create asystem of taxes and tax credits where we 
pool all the uninsured together and we enable them to buy private 
health insurance on amarketplace.
  Fast-forward about two decades. Barack Obama comes to the White House 
wanting to compromise, wanting to create a system thatwould disrupt the 
existing healthcare system as little as possible, and decides to go in 
this direction. Then suddenly, all ofthose on the other side who 
supported that idea for two decades decided it was socialism and could 
not possibly be thehealthcare law.
  So the reason why they don't have an alternative to ObamaCare is 
because this is the market solution. This was the moremoderate 
approach. This actually isn't a Big Government-run plan.
  So I am extending a hand to the other side. If they really want to 
come up with a way to improve the Affordable Care Act,there are many of 
us on this side who genuinely want to work on that. I have already 
voted, as a Member only here 2 years, onways we can improve the 
Affordable Care Act and make some modifications, the same way we have 
made modifications to Medicare andMedicaid many times since 1965.
  Mr. Chairman, if the real intent of the other side is just to strip 
away health insurance to 22 million Americans, we willsay ``no'' and 
continue to fight it.

                              {time}  1345

  Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Chairman, as I said in my closing to the debate on 
the resolution itself, it would be wonderful if theRepublicans had a 
plan that they could describe to the American people so that American 
families would know what would be intheir healthcare future. It would 
also be nice if they would wait to repeal the Affordable Care Act until 
they could do that. Ithink the American people expect it. The poll I 
mentioned from Kaiser, 82 percent of the people preferred to go in 
thatdirection. Let's find out if there is a better way.
  I have said many times in public the reason there has been no 
Republican alternative to the Affordable Care Act is becausethere 
really are only two alternatives: one is to go back to the era in which 
insurance companies decided who lived and died,and the other one is to 
go to single payer, something like Medicare for everyone. I would love 
to discuss that option. I thinkit would be immensely popular in this 
country. But, instead, Republicans come up with ideas that are drifting 
in the otherdirection, again, back to not patient-centered care but 
back to insurance company-centered care.
  The important thing today is that we have an alternative here through 
which we can actually do something constructive forthe American people, 
something that will help the economy, something that will make vital 
investments in our Nation and thefuture economy instead of putting the 
country's healthcare system at risk. That is what this amendment does. 
That is why Iintroduced it, and that is why I urge my colleagues to 
support it.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman 
from Kentucky (Mr. Yarmuth).
  The question was taken; and the Chair announced that the noes 
appeared to have it.
  Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Chair, I demand a recorded vote.
  The CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further proceedings on 
the amendment offered by the gentleman from Kentuckywill be postponed.
  Mrs. BLACK. Mr. Chairman, I move that the Committee do now rise.
  The motion was agreed to.
  Accordingly, the Committee rose; and the Speaker pro tempore (Mr. 
Womack) having assumed the chair, Mr. Hultgren,Chair of the Committee 
of the Whole House on the state of the Union, reported that that 
Committee, having had underconsideration the concurrent resolution (S. 
Con. Res. 3) setting forth the congressional budget for the United 
States Governmentfor fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate 
budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026, had come to 
noresolution thereon.

                          ____________________



