

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S46]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          TRIBUTE TO JOE TOLAN

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, at the beginning of this year, one of 
Louisville's foremost community servants began hismuch-deserved 
retirement. I rise today to congratulate Joseph Tolan, a man of 
distinction who dedicated his life to the peopleof Louisville and 
Kentucky.
  Many years ago, I had the pleasure of working alongside Joe. When I 
served as the judge/executive of Jefferson County, Joeled the county 
department for human services. I particularly remember his passion for 
helping those around him, and that passionhas been the driving force of 
his career. And believe me, I can tell you, from firsthand experience, 
that passion is contagious.
  For the last 30 years, Joe has committed himself to the Metro United 
Way, a Louisville organization that raises anddistributes funds to 
worthy causes around the region. Spending the last 15 years as 
president and CEO, Joe led the effort toraise nearly $30 million every 
year to support approximately 100 organizations. The community support 
that Joe inspired has ledMetro United Way to be ranked in the top 25 
markets nationwide.
  However, organizations like Metro United Way are measured by so much 
more than just the donations they raise. True successis counted by the 
lives impacted and the good work done. With a focus on education, 
financial stability, and healthy living,Metro United Way impacts 
thousands of families across the region every single day.
  Since joining Metro United Way, Joe has been a major player in the 
transformation of the city of Louisville and the entireregion. Although 
the organization is over 100 years old, it is constantly adapting to 
meet today's challenges in the mosteffective ways possible. With this 
commitment to excellence and a growing network of strategic 
partnerships, Metro United Wayproved to be a lasting force for good in 
the community. During his tenure as president and CEO, Joe hasn't just 
been a part ofthis innovation, he has been its leader.
  Joe has surely earned his retirement, but I know many of us are very 
sorry to see him go. He leaves behind an impressivelist of 
accomplishments and an organization well positioned to continue his 
work. I want to extend my congratulations to Joe onsuch a successful 
career of dedicated leadership always with a vision to help everyone 
reach their fullest potential.

                          ____________________



