

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 40 (Wednesday, March 8, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 40 (Wednesday, March 8, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H1602]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        AMERICAN HEALTH CARE ACT

  (Mr. LANGEVIN asked and was given permission to address the House for 
1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. LANGEVIN. Mr. Speaker, I am deeply troubled and disappointed that 
Republicans have chosen to move forward with their plans to dismantle 
the Affordable Care Act rather than working in a bipartisan fashion to 
improve this landmark legislation.
  Republicans have had 7 years to work across the aisle to find 
solutions. Instead, they have chosen to ignore the ACA's success in 
pursuit of their single-minded focus on gutting the law. They have 
voted over 60 times to repeal the ACA. Could not even one of those 
votes have been to try to improve it if they saw these shortcomings?
  Mr. Speaker, the ACA expanded healthcare access to over 100,000 Rhode 
Islanders and 20 million people nationwide who otherwise did not have 
health insurance. Unfortunately, the Republican proposal jeopardizes 
the comprehensive, affordable, quality coverage Americans received 
under the ACA.
  Mr. Speaker, the Republican plan will lead to higher costs and less 
accessible coverage, and it will strain, not strengthen, our healthcare 
system. Their plan disproportionately harms seniors, people with 
disabilities, and those who rely on Medicaid.
  I have long said, Mr. Speaker, that the ACA isn't perfect, but it is 
an important first step toward fulfilling our Nation's promise of 
compassion and opportunity because health care is a necessity. It is 
something that is a right, not a privilege. Unfortunately, the 
Republicans' American Health Care Act will break this fundamental 
promise by undermining the healthcare coverage of millions.

                          ____________________



