

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 13 (Tuesday, January 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 13 (Tuesday, January 24, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H618-H619]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      NATIONAL SCHOOL CHOICE WEEK

  (Mr. BIGGS asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.)
  Mr. BIGGS. Madam Speaker, I rise to celebrate National School Choice 
Week. Allowing parents to choose the best educational outcomes for 
their children gives every child a better chance to succeed and 
prepares students for their futures.
  School choice has greatly benefited Arizona--from charter schools to 
vocational schools, to private school scholarships, to education 
savings accounts. I am grateful that my State is a national leader in 
diverse school choice programs.
  Arizona's scholarship tax credit program gives taxpayers a dollar-
for-dollar tax credit to enable low-income and disabled children to 
attend private schools. In Arizona, more children per capita attend 
exemplary charter schools, and, indeed, they are some of the best 
charter schools in the country. We have significantly expanded the 
education savings account model so students can receive the best 
education possible that meets their unique needs, including those of 
tribal families who live in reservation communities.

[[Page H619]]

  Arizona recognizes that all children are unique, that they learn 
differently, and that each child should have the opportunity to attend 
the school that will help him learn to love learning and succeed. I 
hope other States will look at Arizona's example as they expand school 
choice. I am pleased President Trump has made school choice a priority 
by nominating Betsy DeVos to lead the Department of Education.

                          ____________________



