

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 55 (Wednesday, March 29, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 55 (Wednesday, March 29, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2527]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                            NOTHING TO HIDE?

  (Mr. CICILLINE asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute.)
  Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Speaker, yesterday we learned that the Trump 
administration tried to limit former Deputy Attorney General Sally 
Yates' testimony on Russian interference in the 2016 election.
  As reported in The Washington Post, Sally Yates and former CIA 
Director John Brennan had made clear that their testimony would 
contradict statements that have been made by officials at the White 
House.
  The hearing at which they were to testify has now been canceled, and 
all of us have a responsibility to ask why. If there is nothing to hide 
about his ties to Putin's Russia, then why doesn't President Trump want 
Sally Yates to testify?
  If there is nothing to hide, then why does President Trump continue 
to withhold his tax returns?
  If there is nothing to hide, then why won't President Trump make 
public the visitor logs at Mar-a-Lago?
  We are now in day 68 of the Trump administration. Each day, more and 
more information emerges about ties between Vladimir Putin's regime and 
Trump's inner circle, and the Trump campaign officials. Each day, the 
White House scrambles to contain the damage. It is time for the 
President to come clean with the American people.
  Mr. President, let Sally Yates testify. Mr. President, release your 
taxes. Mr. President, let's see the guest logs at Mar-a-Lago. And Mr. 
President, support an independent, bipartisan commission to get to the 
bottom of this. The American people deserve answers.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair reminds Members to address their 
remarks to the Chair.

                          ____________________



