

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 3 (Thursday, January 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 3 (Thursday, January 5, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H111]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   REPEALING THE ACA IS UNACCEPTABLE

  (Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ asked and was given permission to address the 
House for 1 minute and to revise and extend her remarks.)
  Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to the 
majority's efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act and make America 
sick again.
  It is atrocious that Republicans intend to repeal ObamaCare without 
any plan for replacement. It is barbaric to take health care away from 
30 million Americans. It is cruel and disgraceful to go back to the 
dark times when there were annual and lifetime limits on care for all 
Americans. It is gutless to repeal the law that protected breast cancer 
survivors like me and up to 129 million Americans with preexisting 
conditions. It is fraudulent to tell the American people that we can 
keep popular provisions like that one without any mechanism to share 
risk to keep health care affordable.
  It is greedy to give insurance and drug companies billions of dollars 
in tax breaks but cut funding for Medicaid expansion. It is heartless 
to take away free preventive services like cancer screenings from 55 
million Americans, particularly seniors and people with disabilities in 
Medicare. It is indefensible to roll back the $23.5 billion in 
prescription drug savings realized by seniors on Medicare in the donut 
hole.
  It is past time--long past time--that my Republican colleagues 
understand from A to Z that repeal is unacceptable and a disaster 
waiting to happen.

                          ____________________



