

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S309-S310]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




          WAIVER LEGISLATION FOR THE NEXT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

  Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, the Senateis faced with a clear but 
complicated choice: support this expedited legislation that will pave 
the way for the confirmation ofthe next nominee to be Secretary of 
Defense or embroil one of the most consequential Cabinet positions--and 
with it the lives ofthousands of men and women, as well as our national 
defense--in what would surely become a legal and legislative morass.
  TheFramers of the Constitution established that the Senate should 
provide advice and consent in the appointment of such Cabinetnominees. 
Congress subsequently, in the aftermath of World War II, sought to 
implement limitations on who could serve asSecretary of Defense, 
specifically, a cooling off period for members of the military 
nominated to serve as Secretary of Defense.The goal? To ensure that 
America's military would remain under civilian control. Circumventing 
these limitations requires an actof Congress. It has been done just 
once before, ironically almost immediately after Congress first enacted 
those limitations.
  In Gen. Mattis, the President-elect--who is inexperienced in the 
world of military affairs and has sometimes proven rash inhis public 
comments--has identified an able leader, who is tremendously popular 
and who has time and again shown himself worthyof the respect he has 
earned. I believe he will be a voice of reason in the Department of 
Defense and was encouraged to hear athis confirmation hearing this 
morning that he understands the importance of civilian control of our 
Defense Department andintends to preserve that tradition.
  As Senator Reed said earlier today in the Armed Services Committee, 
this is a once-in-a-generation waiver. Chairman McCain similarly 
emphasized that he supports the law that this legislation 
wouldtemporarily waive. I do not support efforts to change the law to 
permanently eliminate this statutory cooling off period. I 
amdisappointed that the Senate majority has insisted on creating an 
expedited debate on such a critical question. I cannot supportsuch an 
abrupt and accelerated revision of the law, even in the form of a one-
time-only exemption. I couldn't support such ahaphazard process, 
regardless of who the President, President-elect, or the nominee is.
  As I said in December when theSenate considered the legislation that 
paved the way for this rushed process today, my vote on this bill does 
not foreshadow myvote on Gen. Mattis's nomination. I do believe that 
Gen. Mattis can respect the boundaries that

[[Page S310]]

make our Armed Forces thestrongest in the world. I believe Gen. Mattis 
will offer a critical perspective to an inexperienced and sometimes 
volatileincoming Commander in Chief. And those are reasons why I 
believe he may receive my support when the Senate considers 
hisnomination.

                          ____________________



