

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 36 (Wednesday, March 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 36 (Wednesday, March 1, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1513]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                             CLOTURE MOTION

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, there will now be 10 
minutes of debate equally divided.
  The Senator from Idaho.
  Mr. CRAPO. Mr. President, it is an honor for me to recommend again 
Dr. Carson as the Secretary of HUD. Dr. Carson brings a fresh set of 
eyes to every issue and every problem he faces, and he has an 
incredible record of success and of achieving outstanding results. We 
look forward to his bringing that same kind of analytical mind and 
management to the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
  I don't think there is a better pick that could have been made. I 
urge my colleagues to support this motion to invoke cloture.
  I yield the remainder of our time to the Senator from Montana.


                       Confirmation of Ryan Zinke

  Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, back in 1979, there was a junior from 
Bozeman High School and another junior from Whitefish High School, both 
headed to Dillon, MT, as Boys State delegates. The keynote speaker that 
year was a newly elected U.S. Senator named Max Baucus. Who knew that 
38 years later the kid from Bozeman would serve as a U.S. Senator and 
the kid from Whitefish would be our next Secretary of the Interior.
  Congratulations to Ryan Zinke, our new Secretary of the Interior, who 
was confirmed with very strong bipartisan support. He is the first 
Montanan to serve in a President's Cabinet since our statehood in 1889.
  Ryan, it is truly an honor to be one of the very first to call you 
Secretary Zinke. On behalf of the people of Montana and our country, 
well done, sir.
  I yield back my time.
  Mr. CRAPO. Mr. President, it is my understanding that there is no one 
else who wants to speak on either side. So at this time, I yield back 
all time on both sides.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Pursuant to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the Senate the pending 
cloture motion, which the clerk will state.
  The legislative clerk read as follows:

                             Cloture Motion

       We, the undersigned Senators, in accordance with the 
     provisions of rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the Senate, 
     do hereby move to bring to a close debate on the nomination 
     of Benjamin S. Carson, Sr., of Florida, to be Secretary of 
     Housing and Urban Development.
         Mitch McConnell, Johnny Isakson, Jeff Flake, Steve 
           Daines, James Lankford, Roger F. Wicker, Dan Sullivan, 
           Thom Tillis, Rob Portman, John Thune, John Hoeven, Deb 
           Fischer, James M. Inhofe, Tim Scott, Lindsey Graham, 
           Jerry Moran, Pat Roberts.

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unanimous consent, the mandatory quorum 
call has been waived.
  The question is, Is it the sense of the Senate that debate on the 
nomination of Benjamin S. Carson, Sr., of Florida, to be Secretary of 
Housing and Urban Development shall be brought to a close?
  The yeas and nays are mandatory under the rule.
  The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk called the roll.
  Mr. CORNYN. The following Senator is necessarily absent: the Senator 
from Georgia (Mr. Isakson).
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there any other Senators in the Chamber 
desiring to vote?
  The yeas and nays resulted--yeas 62, nays 37, as follows:

                       [Rollcall Vote No. 76 Ex.]

                                YEAS--62

     Alexander
     Barrasso
     Blunt
     Boozman
     Brown
     Burr
     Capito
     Cardin
     Carper
     Cassidy
     Cochran
     Collins
     Corker
     Cornyn
     Cotton
     Crapo
     Cruz
     Daines
     Donnelly
     Enzi
     Ernst
     Fischer
     Flake
     Gardner
     Graham
     Grassley
     Hatch
     Heitkamp
     Heller
     Hoeven
     Inhofe
     Johnson
     Kennedy
     King
     Lankford
     Lee
     Manchin
     McCain
     McConnell
     Menendez
     Moran
     Murkowski
     Paul
     Perdue
     Portman
     Reed
     Risch
     Roberts
     Rounds
     Rubio
     Sasse
     Scott
     Shelby
     Strange
     Sullivan
     Tester
     Thune
     Tillis
     Toomey
     Warner
     Wicker
     Young

                                NAYS--37

     Baldwin
     Bennet
     Blumenthal
     Booker
     Cantwell
     Casey
     Coons
     Cortez Masto
     Duckworth
     Durbin
     Feinstein
     Franken
     Gillibrand
     Harris
     Hassan
     Heinrich
     Hirono
     Kaine
     Klobuchar
     Leahy
     Markey
     McCaskill
     Merkley
     Murphy
     Murray
     Nelson
     Peters
     Sanders
     Schatz
     Schumer
     Shaheen
     Stabenow
     Udall
     Van Hollen
     Warren
     Whitehouse
     Wyden

                             NOT VOTING--1

       
     Isakson
       
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this vote, the yeas are 62, the nays are 
37.
  The motion is agreed to.

                          ____________________



