

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 45 (Wednesday, March 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 45 (Wednesday, March 15, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1841-S1842]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 29

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 29, a bill to permit 
disabled law enforcement officers, customs and border protection 
officers, firefighters, air traffic controllers, nuclear materials 
couriers, members of the Capitol Police, members of the Supreme Court 
Police, employees of the Central Intelligence Agency performing 
intelligence activities abroad or having specialized security 
requirements, and diplomatic security special agents of the Department 
of State to receive retirement benefits in the same manner as if they 
had not been disabled.


                                 S. 34

  At the request of Mr. Johnson, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mr. Blunt) was added as a cosponsor of S. 34, a bill to amend chapter 
8 of title 5, United States Code, to provide for the en bloc 
consideration in resolutions of disapproval for ``midnight rules'', and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 82

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 82, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to expand the denial of deduction for certain 
excessive employee remuneration, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 204

  At the request of Mr. Johnson, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. 204, a bill to authorize 
the use of unapproved medical products by patients diagnosed with a 
terminal illness in accordance with State law, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 205

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Cotton) was added as a cosponsor of S. 205, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the estate and generation-
skipping transfer taxes, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 236

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the names of the Senator from Iowa (Mrs. 
Ernst) and the Senator from Vermont (Mr. Leahy) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 236, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
to reform taxation of alcoholic beverages.


                                 S. 255

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 255, a bill to increase 
the rates of pay under the General Schedule and other statutory pay 
systems and for prevailing rate employees by 3.2 percent, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 275

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Moran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 275, a bill to allow the 
financing by United States persons of sales of agricultural commodities 
to Cuba.


                                 S. 324

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) and the Senator from Maine (Mr. King) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 324, a bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
improve the provision of adult day health care services for veterans.


                                 S. 341

  At the request of Mr. Graham, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 341, a bill to provide 
for congressional oversight of actions to waive, suspend, reduce, 
provide relief from, or otherwise limit the application of sanctions 
with respect to the Russian Federation, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 374

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 374, a bill to enable 
concrete masonry products manufacturers to establish, finance, and 
carry out a coordinated program of research, education, and promotion 
to improve, maintain, and develop markets for concrete masonry 
products.


                                 S. 382

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 382, a bill to require 
the Secretary of Health and Human Services to develop a voluntary 
registry to collect data on cancer incidence among firefighters.


                                 S. 415

  At the request of Ms. Cortez Masto, the name of the Senator from 
Delaware (Mr. Carper) was added as a cosponsor of S. 415, a bill to 
nullify the effect of the recent Executive order that makes the vast 
majority of unauthorized individuals priorities for removal and aims to 
withhold critical Federal funding to sanctuary cities.


                                 S. 445

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 445, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to ensure more timely 
access to home health services for Medicare beneficiaries under the 
Medicare program.


                                 S. 448

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 448, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for treatment of 
clinical psychologists as physicians for purposes of furnishing 
clinical psychologist services under the Medicare program.


                                 S. 459

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 459, a bill to designate the 
area between the intersections of Wisconsin Avenue, Northwest and Davis 
Street, Northwest and Wisconsin Avenue, Northwest and Edmunds Street, 
Northwest in Washington, District of Columbia, as ``Boris Nemtsov 
Plaza'', and for other purposes.


                                 S. 479

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 479, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to waive coinsurance under 
Medicare for colorectal cancer screening tests, regardless of whether 
therapeutic intervention is required during the screening.

[[Page S1842]]

                                 S. 497

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the names of the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin), the Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey), and 
the Senator from Mississippi (Mr. Cochran) were added as cosponsors of 
S. 497, a bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to 
provide for Medicare coverage of certain lymphedema compression 
treatment items as items of durable medical equipment.


                                 S. 515

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 515, a bill to 
require the Secretary of Labor to maintain a publicly available list of 
all employers that relocate a call center overseas, to make such 
companies ineligible for Federal grants or guaranteed loans, and to 
require disclosure of the physical location of business agents engaging 
in customer service communications, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 517

  At the request of Mrs. Fischer, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 517, a bill to amend 
the Clean Air Act with respect to the ethanol waiver for Reid vapor 
pressure limitations under such Act.


                                 S. 518

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. 518, a bill to 
amend the Federal Water Pollution Control Act to provide for technical 
assistance for small treatment works.


                                 S. 544

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Ms. Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of S. 544, a bill to amend 
Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 to modify the 
termination date for the Veterans Choice Program, and for other 
purposes.
  At the request of Mr. McCain, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) was added as a cosponsor of S. 544, supra.


                                 S. 608

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from 
Michigan (Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 608, a bill to 
nullify the effect of the March 6, 2017 executive order that 
temporarily restricts most nationals from six countries from entering 
the United States.


                                 S. 629

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the names of the Senator from New 
York (Mrs. Gillibrand), the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) 
and the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 629, a bill to amend the Federal Food, Drugs, and 
Cosmetic Act to ensure the safety and effectiveness of medically 
important antimicrobials approved for use in the prevention, control, 
and treatment of animal diseases, in order to minimize the development 
of antibiotic-resistant bacteria.


 =========================== NOTE =========================== 

  
  On page S1842, March 15, 2017, in the first column, the 
following appears: At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of 
the Senator from New York (Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a 
cosponsor of S. 629, a bill to amend the Federal Food, Drugs, and 
Cosmetic Act . . .
  
  The online Record has been corrected to read: At the request of 
Mrs. Feinstein, the names of the Senator from New York (Mrs. 
Gillibrand), the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) and the 
Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) were added as cosponsors 
of S. 629, a bill to amend the Federal Food, Drugs, and Cosmetic 
Act . . .


 ========================= END NOTE ========================= 



                              S.J. RES. 27

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the names of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Shelby) and the Senator from Kentucky (Mr. McConnell) were added 
as cosponsors of S.J. Res. 27, a joint resolution disapproving the rule 
submitted by the Department of Labor relating to ``Clarification of 
Employer's Continuing Obligation to Make and Maintain an Accurate 
Record of Each Recordable Injury and Illness''.

                          ____________________



