

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 51 (Thursday, March 23, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 51 (Thursday, March 23, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1979]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I have 7 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to Rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


           committee on agriculture, nutrition, and forestry

  The Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, March 23, 2017 at 
10 a.m. in 325 Russell Senate Office Building.


                      committee on armed services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, March 23, 2017, at 9:30 a.m., in 
open session.


            committee on banking, housing, and urban affairs

  The Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, March 23, 2017 at 
9:30 a.m. to conduct a hearing entitled ``Nomination of Mr. Jay Clayton 
to be a Member of the Securities and Exchange Commission.''


                       committee on the judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate, on March 23, 2017, at 9:30 a.m., in room SH-216 
of the Hart Senate Office Building, to continue a hearing entitled 
``The Nomination of the Honorable Neil M. Gorsuch.''


                    select committee on intelligence

  The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet 
during the session of the 115th Congress of the U.S. Senate on 
Thursday, March 23, 2017 from 2 p.m., in room SH-219 of the Senate Hart 
Office Building.


                       subcommittee on personnel

  The Subcommittee on Personnel of the Committee on Armed Services be 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, March 
23, 2017, at 2:30 p.m., in open session.


       subcommittee on aviation operations, safety, and security

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to hold a meeting during the session of the Senate on Thursday, March 
23, 2017, at 10 a.m. in room 253 of the Russell Senate Office Building.
  The Committee will hold Subcommittee Hearing on ``FAA 
Reauthorization: Perspectives on Improving Airport Infrastructure and 
Aviation Manufacturing.''

                          ____________________



