

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H59]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               CONGRATULATIONS TO SPEAKER PAUL DAVIS RYAN

  (Mr. WILSON of South Carolina asked and was given permission 
toaddress the House for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. WILSON of SouthCarolina. Mr. Speaker, yesterday, the first day of 
the 115th Congress, the House of Representatives elected Paul Davis 
Ryanto serve as Speaker of the House. I have been grateful to serve 
with Speaker Ryan, a proven conservative, throughout myservice in 
Congress and can attest to his commitment to conservative values with 
innovative thoughtfulness.
  Under SpeakerRyan's leadership, House Republicans last year passed 
meaningful legislation providing greater outreach service forveterans, 
reinforcing local control of education, ending the 40-year ban on crude 
oil exports, combating the opioid epidemic,passing the National Defense 
Authorization Act, and enacting sweeping mental health reform.
  Speaker Ryan also launchedA Better Way, a bold policy agenda that 
presents meaningful initiatives for restoring a confident America by 
presentingsolutions to address poverty, grow our economy to create 
jobs, defend the Constitution, improve health care by repealing 
thefailing ObamaCare, reform the Tax Code, and strengthen the military.
  I was grateful to cast my vote for Speaker Ryan,and I look forward to 
working with him, President-elect Donald Trump, and Vice President-
elect Mike Pence in the newCongress to deliver policies of limited 
government and expanded freedom for American families.
  In conclusion, God bless ourtroops, and may the President, by his 
actions, never forget September the 11th in the global war on 
terrorism.

                          ____________________



