

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 40 (Wednesday, March 8, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 40 (Wednesday, March 8, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1686]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      TRIBUTE TO DR. ROBERT BACKUS

  Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, today I am honored to recognize a Vermont 
treasure, Dr. Robert Backus of Grace Cottage Hospital, who is retiring 
after nearly four decades of dedicated service to the rural community 
of Townshend, VT.
  Dr. Backus, or ``Dr. B'' as his patients often call him, is a natural 
healer. He discovered his passion for medical sciences as a young 
hunter. After serving with the Peace Corps in Brazil, he traveled to 
Australia to complete a medical internship and his residency. Years 
later, while on a trek across country from California, Dr. Backus found 
himself meandering along the winding roads of Vermont's Route 30, and 
he discovered the place he continues to call home today. The people of 
Townshend are glad he never left.
  After settling in Vermont, Dr. Backus went on to complete his 
premedical studies at the University of Massachusetts and, later, 
Dartmouth College. He then received his doctorate in medicine from the 
University of Vermont in Burlington. Soon after, Dr. Backus took a job 
working as deputy to Dr. Carlos Otis, the revered founder of Vermont's 
Grace Cottage Hospital, one of the State's leading rural providers.
  Dr. Backus is perhaps most well-known for always being there for his 
patients, even if they are admitted to a different hospital. He is also 
known for his strong commitment to the community. For example, each 
year, Dr. Backus dedicates his time to collecting items for the Grace 
Cottage Fair, an event that supports the work and patients of the 
hospital. He also enjoys singing in the West River Valley Chorus with 
his wife, Carol.
  Dr. Backus remains committed to staying active in his community after 
retirement, and as a grandfather to six, he is also looking forward to 
spending more time with his family.
  I am proud to honor Dr. Backus's commitment to our State, and to the 
health and well-being of Vermonters. I know we will continue to see 
great things from him, and I wish him the very best as he enters a 
well-deserved retirement.

                          ____________________



