

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 59 (Wednesday, April 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 59 (Wednesday, April 5, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2702]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              OPIOID AND DRUG ADDICTION CRISIS IN AMERICA

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Fitzpatrick) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to share the story of a 
young man from my district whose tragic passing underscores one of the 
biggest issues facing our community and facing our Nation.
  Carlos Castellanos of Falls Township, Bucks County, graduated from 
Pennsbury High School. He always loved sharing his talents and love of 
music by playing the guitar and drums at school and also for local 
church groups. However, like so many around the Nation, Carlos got 
involved with drugs during his time at school and even spent some time 
in jail. But with the strength and support of his family, he began 
receiving treatment, and his life improved.

                              {time}  1030

  He helped others by volunteering at a recovery house. He brought 
people suffering in similar situations into treatment programs.
  In early December, Carlos walked his mother, Pamela, down the aisle 
for her wedding. He was getting ready to go back to school. He had a 
steady job, and he had a girlfriend. It would seem to so many that 
Carlos' battle with addiction was heading in the right direction--a 
needed point of hope in a war that has caused so much devastation.
  Then on December 23, just 2 days before Christmas, two police 
detectives showed up at Pamela's door to tell her the devastating news 
that no mother can prepare for: Carlos had overdosed on a drug laced 
with fentanyl, and he was unable to be saved.
  Mr. Speaker, Carlos' life and his death cast light on the fact that 
addiction is nothing short of a chronic disease.
  I share this story with Members of this Chamber because last week 
Carlos' mother, Pamela, visited the White House to share her family's 
personal experience as the President established the Commission on 
Combating Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis, a worthy effort that 
deserves our support.
  The fact is our Nation's opioid crisis transcends politics, and so 
must our response. I applaud the President's executive order to 
investigate the roots of this epidemic and outline tangible actions we 
can take to fight back.
  Any response to this challenge must treat the whole person, not just 
the addiction. We must focus on the underlying issues driving people to 
seek opioids, while increasing the accessibility and affordability for 
prevention, for education, for treatment, and for recovery of this 
disease.
  As Pamela shared, every life is a precious life, and every life is 
worthy of being reclaimed. I agree. I believe everyone in this Chamber 
agrees as well.
  Let's get to work together to support these brave families that need 
our help.

                          ____________________



