

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 40 (Wednesday, March 8, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 40 (Wednesday, March 8, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H1599]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              JCC THREATS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms. Ros-Lehtinen). The Chair recognizes the 
gentleman from Florida (Mr. Mast) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. MAST. Madam Speaker, I rise today because there have now recently 
been at least 100 threats made against more than 75 Jewish community 
centers across the country. These threats and the recent vandalism of 
Jewish cemeteries are despicable. I can probably find much more harsh 
language to use, but we probably shouldn't use it here on the House 
floor.
  Community centers of all faiths should be places where people can 
find peace and not feel targeted for their beliefs. As a nation, we 
have to demonstrate that we will do everything within our power to 
prevent future threats and stop potential attacks.
  One of my first acts as a new Member of Congress was to join the 
bipartisan task force to combat anti-Semitism. I am sad that we even 
have to do this. Our group works across the aisle to combat global 
anti-Semitism. I have also cosponsored the Combating European Anti-
Semitism Act, which instructs the Secretary of State to track anti-
Semitism in Europe.
  But it is clear from these attacks, Madam Speaker, that we must also 
do far more here at home to combat anti-Semitism. In the coming days, I 
will be working with my colleagues, both Republicans and Democrats, to 
determine the additional steps that we can take to combat anti-Semitism 
in the United States and keep our communities safe.
  I make this encouragement. I encourage all of my colleagues to ask 
themselves one question: What if it were their child's elementary 
school? What if it were their child's daycare? What if it were their 
child's afterschool program that had the threat of a bomb, just like 
the one that took my own legs?

                          ____________________



