

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 45 (Wednesday, March 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 45 (Wednesday, March 15, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1838]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




         HONOREES OF THE 28TH ANNUAL MAINE WOMEN'S HALL OF FAME

 Mr. KING. Mr. President, today I wish to honor two exceptional 
women, Dr. Ann Koch Schonberger and the late Clara Swan, who are the 
new inductees to the Maine Women's Hall of Fame. Ann and Clara have 
made a vital impact on the lives of women in their communities and 
across the State of Maine. We celebrate their dedication to improving 
the lives of women in Maine.
  Dr. Arm Koch Schonberger, from Bangor spent more than 20 years as the 
director of the women's studies program at the University of Maine and 
now serves as faculty emerita, focusing on women's, gender, and 
sexuality studies. Ann also spent many years as a mathematics 
professor. Ann has published numerous papers and presented at dozens of 
conferences on her research and experiences on the intersection between 
STEM careers and gender. She has also spent countless hours 
volunteering at the Spruce Run Womancare Alliance, helping women heal 
from domestic abuse and other forms of violence. Ann strives to bring 
to Maine the Spruce Run mantra of ``imagining communities without 
isolation, violence, abuse and fear.''
  The late Clara Swan was born in Princeton, ME, and spent her life 
serving-as an educator, administrator, and coach. Clara touched the 
lives of thousands of students during her 30-plus years at the Husson 
University campus in Bangor. Clara herself was a graduate of the 
school, known as the Maine School of Commerce when she graduated in 
1933. She returned to Husson in 1939, and spent 34 years as a professor 
and administrator. She was also a women's basketball coach for 19 
years, amassing a record of 240 wins, 34 losses, and 7 ties, which 
included two undefeated seasons. Clara's legacy will not only live on 
in her former students and players, but at her former institution as 
well. In 2002, Husson named its fitness center in Clara's honor. She 
somehow found the time to volunteer at St. Joseph's Hospital, and she 
delivered meals to seniors' homes as part of the Meals on Wheels 
program. Clara lived an active life until she died at the age of 104 
this past January.
  Congratulations to both Ann and Clara for their induction into the 
Maine Women's Hall of Fame. With this well-earned honor, Ann and Clara 
join the ranks of Senator Margaret Chase Smith, Senator Olympia Snowe, 
and Senator Susan Collins, remarkable women who have inspired women in 
Maine and across the country. Maine is lucky to benefit from such 
outstanding leaders and pioneers for women in higher education. I thank 
Ann and Clara for their service and their many contributions to the 
women and communities of our State.

                          ____________________



