

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 51 (Thursday, March 23, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 51 (Thursday, March 23, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1968-S1969]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                       TRIBUTE TO LESLIE CARTNER

 Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this week, I have the distinct 
honor of recognizing Leslie Cartner, commander of the Yellowstone 
Battalion of the U.S. Naval Sea Cadet Corps in Billings. Leslie's 
devotion to the Yellowstone Battalion, the only Sea Cadet organization 
in the State of Montana, has been outstanding. In the next few weeks, 
Leslie will complete her tenure as Yellowstone Battalion Commander and 
transfer responsibility for the Sea Cadet program to another capable 
Montanan.
  In 1962, Congress chartered the U.S. Naval Sea Cadet Corps. Today 
there are over 380 Sea Cadet units and nearly 9,000 young Americans 
participating in the program. In the Yellowstone Battalion, under 
Leslie's leadership, the

[[Page S1969]]

cadets have been trained in drill and ceremony, first aid, inspection 
procedures, and taught the basics of fighting a fire while onboard a 
ship. In addition to learning introductory level Navy skills, the 
cadets have received character-building instruction in avoiding 
substance abuse and prevention of bullying and harassment. One of the 
instructors for the Yellowstone Battalion, Navy veteran George 
Blackard, described Leslie as the driving force behind the local Sea 
Cadet program and ``the one who really got it off the ground.'' I 
strongly share George's appreciation for the work Leslie has done to 
enhance the program and her commitment to helping build the next 
generation of leaders.
  From Libby to Ekalaka, Montanans are doing great things to strengthen 
their communities. A thank you for a job well done, I tip my cap to 
Leslie.
  Good job, Sailor.

                          ____________________



