

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S46]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





                        TRIBUTE TO LAMAR JACKSON

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, today I wish to offer my 
congratulations to an outstanding young man and athlete, theUniversity 
of Louisville Cardinals' quarterback, Lamar Jackson. On December 10 of 
last year, Cards fans watched with excitementas Jackson was awarded the 
Heisman Memorial Trophy, the first in the history of my alma mater. The 
award is given to the mostoutstanding player in college football, and 
Jackson surely has earned it.
  We have known for quite some time that Lamar Jackson would be 
breaking many records. Here are just a few. Jackson was thefirst player 
in NCAA Division I history to pass for 3,300 yards and run for 1,500 
yards in one season. He holds the AtlanticCoastal Conference, ACC, 
record for most touchdowns in a single season with 51. Only a 
sophomore, Jackson is the youngest playerever to win the Heisman Trophy 
at 19 years old, and he is the University of Louisville's first ever 
Heisman Trophy finalist. Theimpressive list goes on and on.
  It is clear that Lamar Jackson is a truly spectacular athlete. He has 
earned his spot in the pantheon of college footballgreats. It is easy 
to cheer when the quarterback hurdles a defender to score or runs 
between some of the best defenses in theNation. His drive and 
dedication are traits we all admire, and just wait until you hear where 
it all started.
  In an interview, Jackson said ``[e]verything I do, I do for my 
mother.'' At an early age, Jackson's mother, Felicia Jones,sparked his 
interest in football, and she pushed him to be his best ever since. 
When Lamar and his younger brother were justlearning the game, their 
mom would put on pads in the backyard and run plays with them. She 
became an active part of all of histeams, all the way to the University 
of Louisville. He said, ``She would tell me the bad things I did. She 
wouldn't really tellme the good things I did. And I'd say `All right, 
Mom. I've got to go fix it.'''
  Lamar Jackson's story is just beginning. Under the guidance of some 
of the best coaches in all of college sports and anathletic director 
with a strategic vision for the future, the Cardinals are positioned to 
make a real impact in collegefootball. With the Heisman Trophy already 
on the shelf, we can only wait and see what Lamar Jackson does next 
year. As an avidfan of UofL football, I know I can hardly wait.
  I would like to join with Cards fans across the Nation to 
congratulate the entire University of Louisville Cardinalsfootball team 
and staff on an exciting season and especially congratulate the 2016 
Heisman Trophy winner, Lamar Jackson. He hastruly made it great to be a 
Louisville Cardinal.

                          ____________________



