

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 41 (Thursday, March 9, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 41 (Thursday, March 9, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1739-S1740]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   TRIBUTE TO EVELYN FRANCES STEARNS

 Ms. HASSAN. Mr. President, I ask my colleagues to join me in 
honoring Evelyn Frances Stearns, who celebrates her 100th birthday on 
March 31, 2017. Evelyn was born in South Berwick, ME, the daughter of 
Perley and Helen Marshall.
  She was a resident nurse graduate of Nashua Memorial Hospital in 
Nashua, NH, and was later a 3 and a half year veteran in the Army Nurse 
Corps, working as an operating room nurse in

[[Page S1740]]

the U.S. and South Pacific theatres during World War II.
  During the war, she was part of the 9th General Hospital originating 
in Fort Devens, MA, and then shipped to Townsville, Australia.
  In 1944, she was transported to the Southwest Pacific, where she 
served in New Guinea during the battles that took place. She was 
awarded a Bronze Star Medal for her service.
  On February 18, 1945, she was promoted from second lieutenant to 
first lieutenant.
  In June of 1946, she married Fred C. Stearns from Winchester, NH, and 
the two had four children: Linda, Diane, Gail, and Sally.
  Evelyn raised her three girls while employed at the Valley Regional 
Hospital in Claremont, NH, as the operating room supervisor. There, she 
was known as ``Our mother, the owl.'' Tough, but fair, Evelyn didn't 
miss a trick.
  After 22 years there, she retired in 1982.
  Evelyn is known around the city of Claremont for her daily walks, 
often in excess of 5 miles a day, up until the age of 98. She also 
found great joy in maintaining her home inside and out until the day 
she left, 6 months ago. Her work ethic exhausted her children and 
grandchildren, who were amazed at her tenacity.
  She continues to be an avid bridge player, and enjoys crosswords and 
reading mysteries.
  Among her family, Evelyn has seven grandchildren and nine great-
grandchildren.

                          ____________________



