

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 59 (Wednesday, April 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 59 (Wednesday, April 5, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2699]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    100TH ANNIVERSARY OF WORLD WAR I

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
North Carolina (Mr. Jones) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. JONES. Mr. Speaker, this year is the 100th anniversary of World 
War I. April 6 of 1917 was the beginning of it all, when Congress voted 
to authorize military force.
  Mr. Speaker, I have introduced a resolution, H. Con. Res. 41, that 
will not only remember World War I, but also honor those veterans who 
served. While those brave people are no longer with us, we must never 
forget those who defended and protected freedom.
  Many of us in Congress, as well as citizens all over this country, 
are relatives of World War I veterans. Many like myself had a 
grandparent who fought for this Nation. Many lost their relatives to 
this war, while many relatives returned from war forever changed. Over 
116,000 were killed, over 200,000 wounded, and over 70,000 suffered the 
effects of inhaling chlorine gas dispelled by German military.
  My grandfather was one of the 70,000, and he, like many, could not 
cope with the effects of gas-damaged lungs and the psychological burden 
of war. At the age of 34 in 1926, he committed suicide. My father, an 
only child, was only 13. I am not unique in this situation, as many 
families tragically suffered the same fate. That is why we must 
continue to remember and honor World War I veterans and their families.
  I want to thank Colonel Charles Bowery, Jr., executive director, U.S. 
Army Center of Military History, and his staff for the many months of 
work organizing this national remembrance.
  This week across the country, we will begin a yearlong celebration 
marking the 100th anniversary of World War I. This Friday, the North 
Carolina Museum of History will hold a ribbon-cutting ceremony to mark 
a year celebrating those who served from North Carolina. My wife and I 
will be in attendance.
  Additionally, Mr. Speaker, I would like to remind Congress that on 
April 10, 11, and 12, PBS will be airing a three-part series titled 
``The Great Night'' at 9 p.m. eastern standard time. I think it will be 
a very informative television program on the history of our country, 
but also the history of World War I.
  In returning to this resolution, Mr. Speaker, I again want to thank 
the United States Army for taking the lead in educating the American 
people about World War I and those who gave so much during it.
  I hope my colleagues will join me in cosponsoring H. Con. Res. 41.

                          ____________________



