

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 28 (Thursday, February 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 28 (Thursday, February 16, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H1256]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   HONORING THE SERVICE OF BOB OLIVER

  (Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN asked and was given permission to address the 
House for 1 minute and to revise and extend her remarks.)
  Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN. Mr. Speaker, today I have the personal pleasure 
and honor of saying a few words about a leader in our community who has 
dedicated his life to the betterment of others.
  Bob Oliver is the president and CEO of Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, 
Inc., which is a healthcare company based in my district in Princeton, 
New Jersey. Bob's strategic leadership over the last 7 years has been 
instrumental in developing a diverse portfolio of marketed products, 
specifically focusing on neuroscience, cardio-renal, and oncology. He 
is personally passionate about helping others and those who care for 
them.
  He has worked for over 40 years helping others navigate the 
healthcare system more easily and has publicly addressed mental health 
stigma, disparity in healthcare treatment, and the future of health 
care using technology advancements. He has worked closely with local 
advocacy groups to aid veterans and other individuals struggling with 
homelessness, mental illness, addiction, and poverty.
  In addition to being a community partner, through his leadership role 
at Otsuka, he has been instrumental in driving economic growth in the 
pharmaceutical sector, as well as creating job opportunities in my 
State.
  Most recently, he was featured as one of Ebony Magazine's Power 100, 
an esteemed panelist with CNN's Fareed Zakaria, and a featured leader 
in Forbes Magazine. The journey is just beginning as he closes this 
chapter in Otsuka and proceeds to move forward in his life.
  He has made us very proud. We are proud to take this moment to 
address his accomplishments and to thank him for his lifetime of 
achievement. We wish him the best of luck and Godspeed.

                          ____________________



