

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 51 (Thursday, March 23, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 51 (Thursday, March 23, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1942]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   REPEALING AND REPLACING OBAMACARE

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, today marks the seventh anniversary of 
ObamaCare becoming law. In the years since, millions of Americans lost 
their plans and their doctors. They saw the cost of their premiums and 
deductibles soar. They watched their choices disappear as insurers were 
forced out of the marketplace. Former President Bill Clinton called 
ObamaCare the ``craziest thing in the world.'' He was right. It was a 
direct attack on the middle class. These failed policies are affecting 
real people every day. Americans expected the law to deliver on its 
promises, but instead they have paid more and received less. ObamaCare 
has been a flawed system from the start. Over the past 7 years, things 
have gotten progressively worse.

  Our Nation cannot continue on this trajectory as ObamaCare continues 
to unravel at every level, leaving Americans to pick up the pieces. On 
this seventh anniversary of ObamaCare's enactment, Americans deserve a 
better way forward. Thankfully, we finally have a Congress and a 
President who are committed to delivering much needed reform.
  The legislation currently before the House will help bring relief. It 
will repeal and replace ObamaCare, which is exactly what we promised 
the American people we would do. Instead of forcing Americans to buy 
something they may not want, like ObamaCare does, this bill gives 
Americans the freedom to choose what type of coverage is right for 
them.
  I look forward to the House passing that bill soon, and we look 
forward to taking it up in the Senate, where there will be a robust 
amendment process. Then, I look forward to collaborating with my 
colleagues to pass it. It is important, however, to remember that this 
bill is only one part of a three-pronged strategy to bring relief. The 
administration is already working to fix the damage 7 years of 
ObamaCare has done to the health markets across the country, and we 
will continue to consider further legislation in Congress to bring more 
competition and reform.
  It is time to move on from 7 years of ObamaCare's broken promises and 
unyielding attacks on the middle class. The status quo is not an 
option. So let's work together to get this done.

                          ____________________



