

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 18 (Thursday, February 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 18 (Thursday, February 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S654]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         TRIBUTE TO ALLY MARTIN

 Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this week, I have the distinct 
honor of recognizing Ms. Ally Martin of Wheatland County, a tough ranch 
hand with a very bright future. This young lady has flat out excelled 
in her community. The superintendent of Harlowton Public Schools said 
of Ally, ``I have known Ally for her whole life and she has yet to 
disappoint me.''
  Ally is the oldest of four siblings on a working sheep and cattle 
ranch not too far from the Musselshell River in central Montana. Anyone 
who knows the amount dedication and perseverance it takes to keep this 
type of family business running knows that Ally's achievements in 
sports, school, and 4-H are remarkable. Ally gets her grit from her 
family. Her parents would drive 25 miles to take Ally to her part-time 
job washing dishes and waiting tables at the Crazy Mountain Inn in 
Martinsdale.
  From 2013-2015, Ally was recognized as the Wheatland County 4-H 
``Grand Champion'' for her sheep project. Ally meticulously cross-bred 
Suffolk sheep into her family's Targhee flock, making noticeable gains 
to weaning weight. Some of her 4-H peers even started using her lambs 
in 4-H as well. Ally has been able to shoulder the demands of the ranch 
while ranking first in her class academically, earning all-State 
athletic honors in basketball and track, and participating in student 
government. Ally commits to whatever she sets her mind to, from 
ranching to school to sports.
  Ally broke new ground as the first person from Harlowton High School 
appointed to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. The number of 
cadets at West Point will be nearly double the population of Wheatland 
County. Ally won't flinch at this. She is not one to seek out comfort, 
make excuses, or look for shortcuts. She will do what she has always 
done--wake up when almost everyone else is still sleeping, focus on the 
tasks at hand, and simply get the job done. Her exemplary hardwork and 
leadership will serve our Nation well in the military. Good luck, and 
Godspeed, Ally; the people of Montana support you.

                          ____________________



