

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 26 (Tuesday, February 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 26 (Tuesday, February 14, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1160]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE

  At 11:12 a.m., a message from the House of Representatives, delivered 
by Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, announced that the House has 
passed the following bills, in which it requests the concurrence of the 
Senate:

       H.R. 244. An act to encourage effective, voluntary 
     investments to recruit, employ, and retain men and women who 
     have served in the United States military with annual Federal 
     awards to employers recognizing such efforts, and for other 
     purposes.
       H.R. 512. An act to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     permit veterans to grant access to their records in the 
     databases of the Veterans Benefits Administration to certain 
     designated congressional employees, and for other purposes.
       H.R. 609. An act to designate the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs health care center in Center Township, Butler County, 
     Pennsylvania, as the ``Abie Abraham VA Clinic''.
       H.R. 974. An act to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in awarding a 
     contract for the procurement of goods or services, to give a 
     preference to offerors that employ veterans.

  The message further announced that pursuant to section 931(c) of the 
Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016 (Public Law 114-198), 
and the order of the House of January 3, 2017, the Speaker appoints the 
following individuals on the part of the House of Representatives to 
the Creating Options for Veterans' Expedited Recovery Commission: 
Captain John M. Rose, United States Navy, Retired, Kenosha, Wisconsin 
and Lieutenant Colonel Jamil S. Khan, United States Marine Corps, 
Retired, Janesville, Wisconsin.
  The message also announced that pursuant to 20 U.S.C. 2103(b), and 
the order of the House of January 3, 2017, the Speaker appoints the 
following individual to the Board of Trustees of the American Folklife 
Center in the Library of Congress on the part of the House of 
Representatives for a term of 6 years: Ms. Patricia A. Atkinson of 
Carson City, Nevada.
  The message further announced that pursuant to section 553(b) of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 
114-328), and the order of the House of January 3, 2017, the Speaker 
appoints the following individual on the part of the House of 
Representatives to the National Commission on Military, National and 
Public Service: Mr. Thomas Kilgannon of Centreville, Virginia.
  The message also announced that pursuant to section 3(b) of the 
Public Safety Officer Medal of Valor Act of 2001 (42 U.S.C. 15202), and 
the order of the House of January 3, 2017, the Speaker appoints the 
following individuals on the part of the House of Representatives to 
the Medal of Valor Review Board for a term of 4 years: Mr. Brandon 
Clabes of Choctaw, Oklahoma and Mr. Brian Murphy of Milwaukee, 
Wisconsin.
  The message further announced that pursuant to section 1238(b)(3) of 
the Floyd D. Spence National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2001 (22 U.S.C. 7002), amended, and the order of the House of January 
3, 2017, the Speaker appoints the following individuals on the part of 
the House of Representatives to the United States-China Economic and 
Security Review Commission for a term expiring on December 31, 2018: 
Mr. Larry Wortzel of Williamsburg, Virginia and Mr. Robert Glenn 
Hubbard of New York, New York.

                          ____________________



