

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 1 (Tuesday, January 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 1 (Tuesday, January 3, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H1-H2]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]

[[Page H1]]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

                        House of Representatives

  This being the day fixed by the 20th Amendment to the Constitution of 
the United States, for the meeting of the 115th Congress of the United 
States, the Representatives-elect met in their Hall, and at noon were 
called to order by the Clerk of the House of Representatives, Hon. 
Karen L. Haas.
  Very Reverend Paul Ugo Arinze, St. John Vianney Roman Catholic 
Church, Janesville, Wisconsin, offered the following prayer:
  Almighty and ever-living God, as this 115th Congress is gaveled in to 
begin their work for the people of this great Nation, we ask You to 
send down Your spirit upon the men and women of this House.
  Give them wisdom, so that they may lead the people of our country 
into peace and prosperity. Grant them an open spirit to listen to each 
other and to work with each other.
  Endow them with courage that is borne of loyalty to all that is noble 
and worthy; loyalty to their families, loyalty to their constituents, 
loyalty to the Constitution, and loyalty to our country--loyalty that 
scorns to compromise with vice and injustice and knows no fear when 
truths and rights are in jeopardy.
  Grant them new forms of friendship and new opportunities for service.
  May they always show forth in their lives and works the ideals of our 
country: one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice 
for all.
  Amen.


                          Pledge of Allegiance

  The CLERK. The Representatives-elect and their guests will please 
remain standing and join in the Pledge of Allegiance.
  The Clerk led the Pledge of Allegiance as follows:

       I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the United States of 
     America, and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation 
     under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.

  The CLERK. As directed by law, the Clerk of the House has prepared 
the official roll of the Representatives-elect.
  Certificates of election covering 435 seats in the 115th Congress 
have been received by the Clerk of the House, and the names of those 
persons whose credentials show that they were regularly elected as 
Representatives in accordance with the laws of their respective States 
or of the United States will be called.
  The Representatives-elect will record their presence by electronic 
device and their names will be reported in alphabetical order by State, 
beginning with the State of Alabama, to determine whether a quorum is 
present.
  Representatives-elect will have a minimum of 15 minutes to record 
their presence by electronic device.
  Representatives-elect who have not obtained their voting ID cards may 
do so now in the Speaker's lobby.
  The call was taken by electronic device, and the following 
Representatives-elect responded to their names:

                              [Roll No. 1]

                       ANSWERED ``PRESENT''--434

                                ALABAMA

     Aderholt
     Brooks
     Byrne
     Palmer
     Roby
     Rogers
     Sewell

                                 ALASKA

      
     Young
      

                                ARIZONA

     Biggs
     Franks
     Gallego
     Grijalva
     Gosar
     McSally
     O'Halleran
     Sinema
     Schweikert

                                ARKANSAS

     Crawford
     Hill
     Westerman
     Womack

                               CALIFORNIA

     Aguilar
     Barragan
     Bass
     Becerra
     Bera
     Brownley
     Calvert
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Chu, Judy
     Cook
     Correa
     Costa
     Davis
     Denham
     DeSaulnier
     Eshoo
     Garamendi
     Huffman
     Hunter
     Issa
     Khanna
     Knight
     LaMalfa
     Lee
     Lieu, Ted
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Matsui
     McCarthy
     McClintock
     McNerney
     Napolitano
     Nunes
     Panetta
     Pelosi
     Peters
     Rohrabacher
     Roybal-Allard
     Royce
     Ruiz
     Sanchez
     Schiff
     Sherman
     Speier
     Swalwell
     Takano
     Thompson
     Torres
     Valadao
     Vargas
     Walters, Mimi
     Waters, Maxine

                                COLORADO

     Buck
     Coffman
     DeGette
     Lamborn
     Perlmutter
     Polis
     Tipton

                              CONNECTICUT

     Courtney
     DeLauro
     Esty
     Himes
     Larson

                                DELAWARE

       
     Blunt Rochester
       

                                FLORIDA

     Bilirakis
     Buchanan
     Castor
     Crist
     Curbelo
     Demings
     DeSantis
     Deutch
     Diaz-Balart
     Dunn
     Frankel
     Gaetz
     Hastings
     Lawson
     Mast
     Murphy
     Posey
     Rooney, Francis
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Rutherford
     Soto
     Wasserman Schultz
     Webster
     Wilson
     Yoho

                                GEORGIA

     Allen
     Bishop
     Carter
     Collins
     Ferguson
     Graves
     Hice, Jody B.
     Johnson
     Lewis
     Loudermilk
     Price, Tom
     Scott, Austin
     Scott, David
     Woodall

                                 HAWAII

     Gabbard
      
     Hanabusa

                                 IDAHO

     Labrador
      
     Simpson

                                ILLINOIS

     Bost
     Bustos
     Davis, Danny
     Davis, Rodney
     Foster
     Gutierrez
     Hultgren
     Kelly
     Kinzinger
     Krishnamoorthi
     LaHood
     Lipinski
     Quigley
     Roskam
     Rush
     Schakowsky
     Schneider
     Shimkus

                                INDIANA

     Banks
     Brooks
     Bucshon
     Carson
     Hollingsworth
     Messer
     Rokita
     Visclosky
     Walorski

[[Page H2]]


  


                                  IOWA

     Blum
     King
     Loebsack
     Young

                                 KANSAS

     Jenkins
     Marshall
     Pompeo
     Yoder

                                KENTUCKY

     Barr
     Comer
     Guthrie
     Massie
     Rogers
     Yarmuth

                               LOUISIANA

     Abraham
     Graves
     Higgins
     Johnson
     Richmond
     Scalise

                                 MAINE

     Pingree
      
     Poliquin

                                MARYLAND

     Brown
     Cummings
     Delaney
     Harris
     Hoyer
     Raskin
     Ruppersberger
     Sarbanes

                             MASSACHUSETTS

     Capuano
     Clark
     Keating
     Kennedy
     Lynch
     McGovern
     Moulton
     Neal
     Tsongas

                                MICHIGAN

     Amash
     Bergman
     Bishop
     Conyers
     Dingell
     Huizenga
     Kildee
     Lawrence
     Levin
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Trott
     Upton
     Walberg

                               MINNESOTA

     Ellison
     Emmer
     Lewis
     McCollum
     Nolan
     Paulsen
     Peterson
     Walz

                              MISSISSIPPI

     Harper
     Kelly
     Palazzo
     Thompson

                                MISSOURI

     Clay
     Cleaver
     Graves
     Hartzler
     Long
     Luetkemeyer
     Smith
     Wagner

                                MONTANA

       
     Zinke

                                NEBRASKA

     Bacon
     Fortenberry
     Smith

                                 NEVADA

     Amodei
     Kihuen
     Rosen
     Titus

                             NEW HAMPSHIRE

     Kuster
      
     Shea-Porter
      
      
      

                               NEW JERSEY

     Frelinghuysen
     Gottheimer
     Lance
     LoBiondo
     MacArthur
     Norcross
     Pallone
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Sires
     Smith (NJ)
     Watson Coleman

                               NEW MEXICO

     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Pearce
      
      

                                NEW YORK

     Clarke
     Collins
     Crowley
     Donovan
     Engel
     Espaillat
     Faso
     Higgins
     Jeffries
     Katko
     King
     Lowey
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Meeks
     Meng
     Nadler
     Reed
     Rice
     Serrano
     Slaughter
     Stefanik
     Suozzi
     Tenney
     Tonko
     Velazquez
     Zeldin

                             NORTH CAROLINA

     Adams
     Budd
     Butterfield
     Foxx
     Holding
     Hudson
     Jones
     McHenry
     Meadows
     Pittenger
     Price
     Rouzer
     Walker

                              NORTH DAKOTA

       
     Cramer

                                  OHIO

     Beatty
     Chabot
     Davidson
     Fudge
     Gibbs
     Johnson
     Jordan
     Joyce
     Kaptur
     Latta
     Renacci
     Ryan
     Stivers
     Tiberi
     Turner
     Wenstrup

                                OKLAHOMA

     Bridenstine
     Cole
     Lucas
     Mullin
     Russell

                                 OREGON

     Blumenauer
     Bonamici
     DeFazio
     Walden

                              PENNSYLVANIA

     Barletta
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady
     Cartwright
     Costello
     Dent
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Evans
     Fitzpatrick
     Kelly
     Marino
     Meehan
     Murphy
     Perry
     Rothfus
     Shuster
     Smucker
     Thompson

                              RHODE ISLAND

     Cicilline
       
     Langevin
      
      

                             SOUTH CAROLINA

     Clyburn
     Duncan (SC)
     Gowdy
     Mulvaney
     Rice (SC)
     Sanford
     Wilson (SC)

                              SOUTH DAKOTA

       
     Noem
      

                               TENNESSEE

     Black
     Blackburn
     Cohen
     Cooper
     DesJarlais
     Duncan (TN)
     Fleischmann
     Kustoff (TN)
     Roe (TN)

                                 TEXAS

     Arrington
     Babin
     Barton
     Brady
     Burgess
     Carter
     Castro
     Conaway
     Cuellar
     Culberson
     Doggett
     Farenthold
     Flores
     Gohmert
     Gonzalez
     Granger
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Hensarling
     Hurd
     Jackson Lee
     Johnson, E.B.
     Johnson, Sam
     Marchant
     McCaul
     Olson
     O'Rourke
     Poe
     Ratcliffe
     Sessions
     Smith
     Thornberry
     Veasey
     Vela
     Weber
     Williams

                                  UTAH

     Bishop
     Chaffetz
     Love
     Stewart

                                VERMONT

      
     Welch
      

                                VIRGINIA

     Beyer
     Brat
     Comstock
     Connolly
     Garrett
     Goodlatte
     Griffith
     McEachin
     Scott
     Taylor
     Wittman

                               WASHINGTON

     Beutler
     DelBene
     Heck
     Jayapal
     Kilmer
     Larsen
     McMorris Rodgers
     Newhouse
     Reichert
     Smith

                             WEST VIRGINIA

     Jenkins
     McKinley
     Mooney

                               WISCONSIN

     Duffy
     Gallagher
     Grothman
     Kind
     Moore
     Pocan
     Ryan
     Sensenbrenner

                                WYOMING

       
     Cheney
      

                              {time}  1237

  The CLERK. Four hundred thirty-four Representatives-elect have 
recorded their presence. A quorum is present.

                          ____________________



