

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S314-S315]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 21

  At the request of Mr. Paul, the name of theSenator from Idaho (Mr. 
Risch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 21, a bill to amend chapter 8 of 
title 5, United StatesCode, to provide that major rules of the 
executive branch shall have no force or effect unless a joint 
resolution of approval isenacted into law.


                                 S. 30

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator 
fromWashington (Mrs. Murray) was added as a cosponsor of S. 30, a bill 
to extend the civil statute of limitations for victimsof Federal sex 
offenses.


                                 S. 68

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the name of the Senatorfrom Wisconsin 
(Mr. Johnson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 68, a bill to require the 
Secretary of State to submit areport to Congress on the designation of 
the Muslim Brotherhood as a foreign terrorist organization, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 87

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr.Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 87, a bill to ensure 
that

[[Page S315]]

State and local law enforcement may cooperate withFederal officials to 
protect our communities from violent criminals and suspected terrorists 
who are illegally present in theUnited States.


                               S. RES. 6

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the names of the Senatorfrom Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) and the Senator from Nevada (Ms. Cortez Masto) were added as 
cosponsors of S. Res. 6, aresolution objecting to United Nations 
Security Council Resolution 2334 and to all efforts that undermine 
direct negotiationsbetween Israel and the Palestinians for a secure and 
peaceful settlement.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 9

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor ofamendment No. 9 intended to be 
proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolution setting forth the 
congressional budget forthe United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018through 2026.

                          ____________________



