

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 9 (Friday, January 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 9 (Friday, January 13, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H477-H490]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF S. CON. RES. 3, CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON 
 THE BUDGET FORFISCAL YEAR 2017, AND PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF S. 
   84, PROVIDING FOR EXCEPTION TO LIMITATION AGAINST APPOINTMENT OF 
PERSONSAS SECRETARY OF DEFENSE WITHIN SEVEN YEARS OF RELIEF FROM ACTIVE 
                                  DUTY

  Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, by direction of the Committee on Rules, I 
call up House Resolution 48 and ask for its immediateconsideration.
  The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:

                               H. Res. 48

       Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this 
     resolution the Speaker may, pursuant to clause 2(b)of rule 
     XVIII, declare the House resolved into the Committee of the 
     Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration ofthe 
     concurrent resolution (S. Con. Res. 3) setting forth the 
     congressional budget for the United States Government for 
     fiscalyear 2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary 
     levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026. The first reading 
     of theconcurrent resolution shall be dispensed with. All 
     points of order against consideration of the concurrent 
     resolution arewaived. General debate shall not exceed two 
     hours, with 90 minutes of general debate confined to the 
     congressional budgetequally divided and controlled by the 
     chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on the 
     Budget and 30 minutes of generaldebate on the subject of 
     economic goals and policies equally divided and controlled by 
     Representative Tiberi of Ohio andRepresentative Carolyn 
     Maloney of New York or their respective designees. After 
     general debate the concurrent resolution shallbe considered 
     for amendment under the five-minute rule. The concurrent 
     resolution shall be considered as read. No amendmentshall be 
     in order except the amendment printed in the report of the 
     Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. 
     Suchamendment may be offered only by the Member designated in 
     the report, shall be considered as read, and shall be 
     debatable forthe time specified in the report equally divided 
     and controlled by the proponent and an opponent. All points 
     of order againstsuch amendment are waived. After the 
     conclusion of consideration of the concurrent resolution for 
     amendment, the Committee shallrise and report the concurrent 
     resolution to the House with such amendment as may have been 
     adopted. The previous question shallbe considered as ordered 
     on the concurrent resolution and on any amendment thereto to 
     adoption without intervening motion. Theconcurrent resolution 
     shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question 
     of its adoption.
       Sec. 2.  Uponadoption of this resolution it shall be in 
     order to consider in the House the bill (S. 84) to provide 
     for an exception to alimitation against appointment of 
     persons as Secretary of Defense within seven years of relief 
     from active duty as a regularcommissioned officer of the 
     Armed Forces. All points of order against consideration of 
     the bill are waived. The bill shall beconsidered as read. All 
     points of order against provisions in the bill are waived. 
     The previous question shall be considered asordered on the 
     bill and on any amendment thereto to final passage without 
     intervening motion except: (1) 90 minutes of debateequally 
     divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority 
     member of the Committee on Armed Services; and (2) one 
     motionto commit.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman from Georgia is recognized for 
1 hour.
  Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, for the purpose of debate only, I yield the 
customary 30 minutes to the gentleman fromMassachusetts (Mr. McGovern), 
my good friend, pending which I yield myself such time as I may 
consume. During considerationof this resolution, all time yielded is 
for the purpose of debate only.


                             General Leave

  Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
may have 5 legislative days to revise and extend theirremarks.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Georgia?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, House Resolution 48 provides for 
consideration of S. Con. Res. 3, the FY17 budget resolution, aswell as 
consideration of a bill to move forward on the process of confirming 
our civilian Secretary of Defense, former GeneralMattis.
  Mr. Speaker, the rule is a structured rule today to move 
expeditiously on both of these measures, and in the time we havegotten 
to spend together, Mr. Speaker, you know I am a fan of the festival of 
democracy that can be the Committee on Rulesprocess, particularly the 
appropriations process. But there are times where moving expeditiously 
is required, and today is oneof those days.
  You are not going to see a rule like this come very often because we 
are considering the FY17 budget resolution today.Historically, as you 
know, in this Chamber, when we get ready to consider budget 
resolutions, Mr. Speaker, we are consideringevery single one that any 
Member of Congress would have an opportunity to write. That process 
takes place every spring to meetthe statutory deadline of passing 
budgets by April. This is not that budget today, Mr. Speaker.
  This is a budget, as you know, to move us forward on a reconciliation 
process to finish up the FY17 budget process, andrather than 
considering all the amendments that one might have to offer, we have 
made in order just one. It is the Democraticsubstitute. It is offered 
by my good friend, the ranking member on the Committee on the Budget, 
Mr. Yarmuth, and it isabsolutely worthy of the Membership's 
consideration. But it is not going to be a vote-a-rama on every budget 
known to mankind.It will be the underlying budget from the House 
Committee on the Budget as well as one substitute from the ranking 
member.
  Mr. Speaker, when it comes to consideration of the measure to waive a 
statutory prohibition on naming a civilian Secretaryof Defense who has 
been out of the military for less than 7 years, we are also offering 
that under a closed rule today. Noamendments are going to be made in 
order. You may not know, Mr. Speaker, but that is the

[[Page H478]]

only statutory change that haspassed the United States Senate in 2017.
  When we talk about having to move expeditiously, when we talk about 
whether or not we are going to have an open process or aclosed process, 
understand that while this body has passed dozens of statutory changes 
in just these first 9 days of legislativeactivity, the Senate has 
passed but one. This is in anticipation of an inauguration of a 
President on January 20. This is inanticipation of trying to fill out a 
Cabinet. This is in anticipation of trying to make sure that civilian 
leadership is inplace on day one to lead and to serve the men and women 
of the United States military.
  This is not the time to have that vote-a-rama. This is the time to 
move expeditiously, again, with a bill that has passed ina bipartisan 
way in the other Chamber. I look forward to getting back into the 
business of leading the Senate, not following theSenate. I look forward 
to getting back in the business of voting on absolutely every idea that 
Members bring to this floor.
  Today, Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this rule so that 
we can move expeditiously on two of our priorities:passing that FY17 
budget resolution and ensuring the speedy confirmation of the civilian 
leader of the Department of Defense.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. 
Woodall) for yielding me the customary 30minutes, and I yield myself 
such time as I may consume.
  (Mr. McGOVERN asked and was given permission to revise and extend his 
remarks.)
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in very strong opposition to this 
restrictive rule, and I rise in strong oppositionto the underlying 
legislation.
  Because of Republican in-fighting, Congress was unable to do one of 
its most basic jobs last year, passing a full budget forFY17. So now 
House Republicans have brought this budget bill to the floor, but we 
all know that this is just a vehicle for themto repeal the Affordable 
Care Act and take away health care from millions and millions of 
Americans.
  For nearly 7 years, my Republican friends have railed against the 
Affordable Care Act. Their well-funded allies have spentbillions of 
dollars distorting the ACA and lying to the American people about what 
it actually does. And for nearly 7 yearsthere has not been a single 
comprehensive healthcare bill brought to the floor by Republicans as a 
replacement for theAffordable Care Act. Not one.
  We have voted over 60 times to repeal the ACA on the House floor. I 
will be the first to admit that ACA is not perfect, butrather than work 
together to tweak it or to make it better, all we get from them are 
repeal bills, repeal bills, repeal bills.Let me again point out that 
not once, not once, was there a replacement bill offered.
  Not only do Republicans not have a plan to replace the Affordable 
Care Act and protect access to health care for more than20 million 
Americans who gained coverage, they can't even agree on a timeline for 
when they will pass their replacement.President-elect Trump says repeal 
and replace will be done on the same day, and he wants it to happen 
now. RepresentativeSteve Scalise said Republicans will replace the ACA 
over the course of the next fewmonths. Senator John Thune said it could 
take 2 or 3 years for the replacement to be implemented. Representative 
ChrisCollins said Republicans have 6 months to work out the replacement 
plan, and Senator Mitch McConnell refused to even givea timeline, just 
saying that it would happen.

  Well, while the Republicans fight with each other over timelines, I 
think it is appropriate to ask: If they did have areplacement, what 
would that replacement be?
  Well, President-elect Trump has the answer. When asked what we should 
replace ObamaCare with, he said: ``Somethingterrific.'' When pressed 
for further details, and more specificity, he said: ``Something that 
people will really, really, reallylike.''
  Mr. Speaker, you can't make this stuff up. It would be laughable if 
it weren't so tragic. It is tragic because whatRepublicans are trying 
to do is take healthcare protections away from millions and millions of 
families.
  Now, no one in this Congress has to worry about health care if the 
Affordable Care Act is repealed, and the Donald Trumps ofthe world 
certainly don't have to worry about health care if the Affordable Care 
Act is repealed. If someone in their familygets really sick, they will 
just sell some stocks or close down another American factory or not pay 
their workers, as ourPresident-elect has been known to do on many, many 
occasions.
  But for millions of Americans, it will be a different story. 
Repealing the ACA would mean over 30 million Americans wouldlose 
coverage, including nearly 4 million children. More than 52 million 
individuals with preexisting conditions could havecoverage rescinded or 
see their premiums dramatically increased. Millions of young adults 
would be unable to stay on theirparents' plans until they are 26. Over 
14 million individuals enrolled in Medicaid under the expansion would 
lose coverage, andnearly 140 million individuals with private insurance 
would lose access to preventive services without copays and 
deductibles.And millions of seniors would see their prescription drug 
prices increase because it would reopen the so-called doughnut holethat 
the ACA has begun to close.
  Republicans want to slash Medicaid, a healthcare program that does a 
lot of good stuff and enables mothers to work their wayout of poverty 
by providing affordable coverage for their children. As someone who 
represents Massachusetts, this is especiallypersonal because Medicaid 
is one of the best tools we have in the fight against opioid addiction, 
providing real care for theaddiction and underlying conditions that 
drive the opioid epidemic in our communities. Repealing Medicaid 
expansion under theACA would rip coverage away from an estimated 1.6 
million newly insured individuals with substance use disorders.
  That is what is at stake, and that is what my Republican colleagues 
are so happy, giddy, and excited to do. It is sad. It ispathetic, but 
they are moving forward anyway with no replacement in sight. I suppose 
they can roll out their oldies but goodies,like health savings accounts 
or their other healthcare prescription, take two tax breaks and call me 
in the morning. But thatdoesn't do it.
  Mr. Speaker, we have a complicated healthcare system, no doubt. I 
wish it were simpler. That is why I have always favored asingle-payer 
system and that is why I favored a public option. But the problem with 
our system before ObamaCare was that it leftall the decisions up to the 
insurance companies.
  Do you remember the days when insurance companies could charge women 
more for health insurance because they said being awoman was a 
preexisting condition?
  They can't do that anymore. Why? Not because of my Republican 
friends. They can't do it anymore because we passed the ACA.
  This budget bill would also give Republicans a green light to defund 
Planned Parenthood. To my colleagues who are so anxiousto defund 
Planned Parenthood just to satisfy their rightwing base, let me ask: 
Have you ever visited a Planned Parenthoodclinic? Because if you had, 
you would understand why what you are doing is so wrong.

                              {time}  0930

  The fact is that Planned Parenthood plays a critical role in 
protecting and providing access to critical health services forboth 
women and men. One in five women has relied on a Planned Parenthood 
health center for care in her lifetime, and PlannedParenthood serves 
2.7 million patients each year. One of the most important statistics 
that my Republican friends like to ignoreis that more than 90 percent 
of what Planned Parenthood does nationally is preventive care, 
including cervical cancerscreenings, breast cancer screenings, and 
family planning, not abortion services.
  Add to this fact that Planned Parenthood clinics are often one of the 
few affordable healthcare options available for manywomen. Nearly 80 
percent of women using Planned Parenthood clinics have incomes at or 
below 150 percent of poverty. It is easyto see why a majority of 
Americans don't think Federal funding should be eliminated. In one 
recent poll, 63 percent of voters,

[[Page H479]]

including 72 percent of independents, do not agree with my Republican 
friends that Federal funding for Planned Parenthoodshould be 
eliminated.
  In fact, we also heard very little about the consequences that 
defunding Planned Parenthood would have for families acrossthe country. 
One of the biggest myths perpetrated by Republicans is the idea that 
our Nation's community health centers, which Ilove and adore and 
respect, could suddenly pick up the slack if Planned Parenthood is 
defunded.
  For the millions of low-income women who depend on Planned Parenthood 
clinics, defunding them would mean the loss ofaffordable and accessible 
contraceptive services and counseling, as well as breast and cervical 
cancer screenings. Simply put,for the many communities served by 
Planned Parenthood clinics, recklessly cutting funding would wipe out 
access to vital healthservices for the people who need them the most.
  Let me make something very clear. Zero Federal dollars go towards the 
abortion services provided by Planned Parenthood--zero.The vast 
majority of funding that Planned Parenthood receives comes in the form 
of Medicaid reimbursements for preventive carethat they provide.
  Mr. Speaker, it is a cruel thing to do, to take away people's health 
care. I will say to my Republican colleagues that theyneed to know that 
we are going to fight you every step of the way on this. There are some 
battles on behalf of the Americanpeople that are worth having and worth 
fighting, and this is one of them--making sure that their health care 
protections remainintact. I came to Congress to help people, not make 
their lives more miserable.
  Finally, Mr. Speaker, let me comment briefly on the other piece of 
legislation in this rule, S. 84. General James Mattis hasbeen praised 
by both Democrats and Republicans, but there is very real concern about 
civilian control over the military, thelanguage of the underlying 
legislation, and the duties and responsibilities of the House of 
Representatives.
  General Mattis has a distinguished career, but we are talking about 
changing the law here. Approving a waiver for him toserve in the 
Cabinet so soon after his military service is a serious decision. It is 
so serious that such a waiver has happenedonly once before in the 
entire history of the United States. Now, we should debate this. 
Instead, the Trump transition teamcanceled General Mattis' testimony 
before the House Armed Services Committee and now expects us to vote 
for him willy-nillywithout us being able to ask him any questions.
  Congress is supposed to be a check on the executive branch, but if 
the House is denied the opportunity to meet with andquestion the 
military officer who is nominated as our next Defense Secretary, how 
can we fulfill our duty and blindly just votefor him?
  I would also say to my Republican friends, this is an early warning 
sign of the disregard that this new administration hasfor the House of 
Representatives. General Mattis was willing to testify, but the Trump 
team said no. They said no to the Houseof Representatives. Caving in on 
this issue will only mean continued disregard for the people's House in 
the future, and I thinkthat that is regrettable.
  I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, it is my great pleasure to yield 4 minutes 
to the gentleman from Oklahoma (Mr. Cole), whoprobably knows more about 
the Health and Human Services Appropriations bill than anyone else in 
this Congress, the cardinal fromthat committee in the 114th Congress.
  Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for his kind words and 
for yielding.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the rule and the underlying 
legislation. As has been made clear, we are actually talkingabout two 
different pieces of legislation here today.
  The waiver for Secretary-designee James Mattis is, quite frankly, a 
no-brainer. The Senate voted 81-17 in favor of thatwaiver. I would 
suspect there will be similar bipartisan support here.
  My friend is correct, of course; this is a serious matter whenever we 
grant exceptions to the law. But General Mattis isjust uniformly and 
universally respected across the lines for his distinguished work in 
defense of this country, so I hope wemove ahead on that.
  The budget resolution that comes before us is another matter, and 
there will be a great deal of contention. Frankly, theresolution itself 
is not, as my good friend from California pointed out, and should not 
be seen as, a traditional budgetaryitem. It is, frankly, a projection 
of what will happen if we do absolutely nothing over the next decade 
and leave the currentset of policies in place.
  It is a sobering document to read in that regard because it shows 
rising deficits every single year for a decade, beginningat over $580 
billion and then moving well north of $1 trillion. Frankly, in my view, 
it is something that we ought to look atand come to the realization 
that we are going to need to do entitlement reform in the next decade, 
something that people on bothsides of the aisle seem to want to ignore. 
Absent that, we will, indeed, have extraordinarybudget deficits, and 
they will be large enough to undercut and undermine our economy.

  The budget resolution is also a vehicle, a tool, to begin to repeal 
the Affordable Care Act. This is necessary for, really,one simple 
reason. The Affordable Care Act, or ObamaCare as it is popularly known, 
is a failing system. It is unpopular. It hasnever been popular, never 
hit 50 percent of popularity. Frankly, in my view, it has cost our 
friends their majority in theHouse, then cost them their majority in 
the Senate, and may well have cost them the Presidency of the United 
States. TheAmerican people have spoken pretty emphatically: We don't 
like this product. And it is collapsing financially right now. This 
isnot a system that is an operation that is really doing well.
  Let me just talk about my own State. We have about 197,000 people 
that have gotten insurance under ObamaCare. This year,they will have 
exactly one choice as to what company they want to choose to provide 
them, and their rates will go up by 69percent. Now, nationally, I think 
the average is over 25 percent.
  Clearly, this is not a system that is working very well. Politically, 
the easy thing to do would be what our friends want usto do--let's just 
leave it alone. It will fall under its own weight, and it will be very 
clear who is responsible for thatcollapse: the current administration 
and my friends on the other side. But that also would be the 
irresponsible thing to do, andthat would be, in itself, an abdication 
of leadership and, ultimately, unfair to the American people.
  Instead, we are going to repeal the system and begin to replace it 
with something that will work better. Now, my friend'spoint is a fair 
one. There is not a single plan out there, but there are plenty of 
plans. I know I cosponsor a couple myself. Ithink we will be able to 
work through this relatively easily.
  There has been a lot of discussion and a lot of diagnosis about what 
the failures of ObamaCare are, but there has been verylittle in the way 
of actual legislative remedy. We have a unique opportunity to do that. 
Frankly, I am proud of our Speaker, andI am proud of our conference 
that they are going to seize that and begin this process because I 
don't think there is anythingmore important facing us.
  So I would urge the passage of the rule and then the passage, 
obviously, of the underlying legislation, particularly thebudget 
resolution that allows us to begin the necessary work in repealing and 
replacing ObamaCare, and, obviously, the waiverthat would allow us to 
have a distinguished Secretary of Defense, General Mattis.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I want to point out a couple of things.
  First of all, according to the Brookings Institution, without the 
ACA, insurance premiums would be 44 percent higher.
  And the other fact I point out for my colleagues is that healthcare 
costs are growing at the slowest rate in the last 50years. Families are 
spending over $3,500 a year less than they would have because of the 
ACA. I would say to my colleagues,yeah, we want to do better, but let's 
work to address some of the shortcomings of the ACA rather than repeal 
it and put indanger all these healthcare protections that people have.

[[Page H480]]

  I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentlewoman from New Jersey (Mrs. 
Watson Coleman).
  Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN. Mr. Speaker, we are in week 2 of this 115th 
Congress, and, as promised, my colleagues and I are here tostand up for 
this good Nation. Unfortunately, House Republicans cannot say the same.
  Last night, they decided that nursing home coverage for millions of 
seniors, comprehensive health care for young children,and the benefits 
earned after a lifetime of hard work are not worth fighting for. That 
is exactly why the gentleman fromWisconsin offered an amendment to 
ensure that the budget resolution being considered today could not be 
used to cut benefitsfrom three critically important programs: Medicaid, 
Medicare, and Social Security.
  In fact, the President-elect promised many times that he would 
neither cut Social Security benefits for seniors nor would hesupport 
cuts to Medicaid and Medicare. But the rule under consideration this 
morning fails to allow a debate or vote on thisamendment, which places 
the earned benefits and the financial future of American people at 
risk.
  Who are my Republican colleagues looking out for? Certainly not their 
constituents.
  It is clear that we are faced with a Republican-controlled Congress 
that is ensuring the divided and self-serving rhetoricthat echoed 
throughout this campaign season rings true. This is not democracy. This 
is not outlined in our Constitution. This isnot the democracy we are 
sworn to protect.
  With that, I urge my colleagues to reject this rule.
  Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 30 seconds to thank my 
colleague for her admonition to reject divisive and self-serving 
rhetoric because I think that is absolutely something we should take to 
heart.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from Washington (Mr. 
Newhouse), a member of the Rules Committee and anew member of the 
Appropriations Committee.
  Mr. NEWHOUSE. Mr. Speaker, I thank my good friend from Georgia for 
yielding me this time to speak on these important issues.
  Mr. Speaker, the opportunity to speak on this important rule that 
provides consideration for the fiscal year 2017 budgetresolution and S. 
84, which provides a legal exception for General Mattis to serve as 
Secretary of Defense, certainly areimportant issues. As a member of the 
House Rules Committee, I am very proud to support this rule as well as 
both of theunderlying measures.
  S. 84 provides a one-time exemption on behalf of an individual who is 
uniquely qualified to serve during a very challengingperiod in our 
Nation's history and a time when U.S. national security and military 
readiness is of paramount importance for bothAmericans and our allies 
around the world.
  This legislation does not permanently change the law nor does it 
diminish the founding principle of civilian control of ourmilitary. In 
fact, this rule allows for consideration of legislation providing for a 
one-time exemption that does exactly theopposite. It reinforces the 
doctrine of civilian control of our military. By setting into motion 
this unique procedure, thepeople's elected representatives are taking 
the seriousness of this circumstance to heart, to debate and carefully 
weighgranting a historic exception, only provided on one other occasion 
in our history.
  The man at the center of this matter demonstrates the extraordinary 
nature of the situation we currently face. General JamesN. Mattis has 
served our Nation with unparalleled distinction over the past 40-plus 
years. Born in Pullman, Washington, GeneralMattis grew up in my 
congressional district, the Fourth District of the State of Washington. 
He attended what was then ColumbiaHigh School, now Richland High, and 
graduated from Central Washington University.
  It was growing up along the banks of the Columbia River in Richland 
where General Mattis' parents instilled in him a deeppassion for 
reading, which then developed into a renowned lifelong devotion to 
intellectualism, military and world history, andthe study of war.
  General Mattis has been in command at increasing levels throughout 
his career within the United States Marine Corps, wherehe began as a 
student enrolled in ROTC, rose to the rank of general, and served as 
commander of the United States CentralCommand responsible for American 
military operations in the Middle East, Northeast Africa, and Central 
Asia. Few individualscommand the respect and admiration General Mattis 
has earned amongst the troops, national security experts, and military 
andcivic leaders.
  This rule allows for the consideration of legislation to provide the 
United States Senate its proper role of advice andconsent regarding the 
nomination of General Mattis to serve as our next Secretary of Defense.

                              {time}  0945

  I urge my colleagues to support this rule so the Senate can 
rightfully provide its constitutional guidance, which I amconfident 
will overwhelmingly support this distinguished leader and public 
servant from the great State of Washington.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  I urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on the previous question. If we 
defeat the previous question, I will offer an amendmentto the rule to 
allow for the consideration of Representative Pocan's amendment, of 
which I am a proud cosponsor, to createa point of order against any 
legislation that would cut benefits under Social Security, Medicare, or 
Medicaid or that wouldattempt to privatize Social Security. All are 
things that my Republican friends have advocated for in previous 
budgets.
  Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to include in the Record the 
text of the amendment, along with extraneousmaterial, immediately prior 
to the vote on the previous question.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Massachusetts?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the distinguished 
gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr. Pocan).
  Mr. POCAN. I thank the gentleman from Massachusetts for yielding.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' and defeat the 
previous question so that we can bring up my amendment,which would 
block the House GOP majority from cutting Medicare, Medicaid, and 
Social Security.
  President-elect Donald Trump has promised many times throughout his 
campaign that he would not cut Social Security benefitsfor seniors nor 
would he support cuts to Medicare or Medicaid benefits. In fact, at 
least 15 times he said he would not makecuts to Medicare or Social 
Security. He even tweeted it; so we know he really, really meant it.
  If it is important to the Democrats and if it is important to the 
President-elect and if it is important to the Americanpeople, let's 
make sure it is absolutely certain that no one has to worry about a cut 
in one's Social Security and Medicarebenefits--not a single cut to 
anyone. If we could do that, that would be the single biggest success 
of the 115th Congress.
  If you support the idea that you will not cut Social Security and 
Medicare and that you will protect the promise to ourconstituents, then 
support this amendment. But if you are not sure yet or if you might be 
willing to cut Social Security andMedicare or if you are actually 
considering cutting these programs, then you should oppose this 
amendment.
  Again, our amendment would block any legislation before the House or 
Senate which cuts guaranteed, earned benefits underSocial Security, 
Medicare, or Medicaid programs; which increases the retirement age for 
these benefits or which privatizesSocial Security. Nationally, over 64 
million people receive benefits from Social Security.
  I want to read a couple of comments from constituents from the State 
of Wisconsin, the home State of Speaker Paul Ryanand mine.
  Robyn from Mount Horeb, Wisconsin, said: ``Please do everything in 
your power to oppose Speaker Ryan's legislation toprivatize Social 
Security and Medicare. These are our earned benefits for a lifetime of 
working as dairy farmers.''
  Carol from Madison said: ``I am a retired Navy veteran and a cancer 
survivor. My grandfather, a World War II

[[Page H481]]

andKorean war vet, is living in a home on Medicaid and Medicare. What 
is going to happen to him if . . . Republicans are successfulin 
drastically altering these programs?''
  Democrats believe we need to protect our senior citizens and the most 
vulnerable in our society. Democrats believe we needto strengthen the 
middle class through the preservation of Social Security and Medicare, 
and so do the American people.
  Do Republicans share our belief? Let's make it crystal clear. Do you 
want to protect Social Security and Medicare, or do youwant to cut 
these earned benefits? You can decide that with this vote.
  I urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' and defeat the previous question 
so we can bring up the CPC--the Pocan-Ellison-Grijalva-Lee-Schakowsky 
amendment--and find out who truly supports Medicare and Social Security 
in this House.
  Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Reluctantly I recognize that we are, apparently, not going to have an 
end to divisive, self-serving rhetoric. I am stilloptimistic, as it is 
a long year ahead of us.
  What the gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr. Pocan) is suggesting, Mr. 
Speaker, is that we ensure the failure of SocialSecurity going forward. 
The only guaranteed benefit in Social Security is that it is guaranteed 
to fail. Those are not my words.These are the words of the actuaries 
who are in charge of protecting Social Security. The nonpartisan 
actuaries who governSocial Security say that there is not enough money 
today to pay the benefits that folks are expecting. The law of the 
land, asit exists today, requires that, when that day comes, benefits 
will get cut dramatically. Only a 75 percent realization ofbenefits is 
what the law requires that befalls our senior citizens. If we pass the 
amendment that is suggested by my friend, wewould be prohibited from 
considering any solutions to that problem. Means testing, which my 
colleagues have advocated for years,is off the table under that 
scenario.
  Mr. Speaker, to suggest that anyone on this side of the aisle wants 
to undermine the commitment that this country has madeto our seniors is 
ludicrous; but to suggest that I go to a 22-year-old, whose polling 
today suggests he or she believes they aremore likely to see a UFO in 
their lifetime than a Social Security check in their lifetime--to 
suggest that going to that 22-year-old and my thinking that maybe his 
retirement age would be a year or two higher thanhis great-
grandparents' since he is now living decades longer--I will remind my 
colleagues we came together in a bipartisan wayto raise the retirement 
age from 65 to 67 in 1983, not because one of us hated seniors and one 
of us loved seniors, but becausewe all believed in our commitment to 
seniors.

  Mr. Speaker, don't let the Record reflect anything other than that 
this budget resolution provides the framework tobegin this discussion, 
to begin the discussion of what comes next. There is not a single line 
of authorizing language in thisbudget resolution. Any suggestion that 
the law will change tomorrow because of this budget resolution is 
false. The law will bethe same tomorrow as it was yesterday. The 
difference is we have begun a path--we will have created a framework; 
we will haveprovided the tools--to have a discussion about how to solve 
very real problems in this country.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Let me respond to my colleague, the gentleman from Georgia, by saying 
that I don't know what he is talking about. The Pocanamendment is 
pretty clear. It says that there will be a point of order against any 
legislation that would cut the benefits underSocial Security, Medicare, 
or Medicaid or would attempt to privatize Social Security.
  Now, I know my Republican friends want to privatize Social Security, 
because they tried that in the past; and I know theywant to privatize 
Medicare and turn it into a voucher system, because that is what their 
budgets continually do. I mean, that iswhat we are trying to prevent.
  If you want to privatize Social Security, if you want to privatize 
Medicare and turn it into a voucher system, then standwith them. But if 
you want to protect these programs--and the vast majority of 
Americans--Democrats, Republicans, and Independentswant to protect the 
integrity of Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid--then oppose this 
budget.
  By the way, this budget, basically, is the green light to go ahead 
and destroy the protections that people value in thiscountry.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from New York (Ms. 
Slaughter), the distinguished ranking member ofthe Rules Committee.
  Ms. SLAUGHTER. I thank my colleague for yielding me the time.
  Mr. Speaker, it is unconscionable to me that the majority is 
prioritizing a repeal of the Affordable Care Act as its toppriority for 
the 115th Congress as the Nation's infrastructure crumbles and as the 
cost of education continues to skyrocket. Itis particularly outrageous 
that this budget puts the wheels in motion, as my colleague has said, 
for a repeal of the healthcarelaw without there being anything to take 
its place.
  This budget would also increase our Nation's debt by $9.5 trillion 
over the next 10 years. Apparently the party that hastried to claim the 
mantle of balanced budgets for years doesn't really care about fiscal 
responsibility.
  It is the first step toward defunding Planned Parenthood, which 
serves 2.5 million patients--men and women--across the countryevery 
year and provides preventative care, like birth control and cancer 
screenings. It seems to me, for the majority of myadult life, I have 
been trying to defend Planned Parenthood. The excuse given that the 
community health centers can pick up theslack is so enormously wrong 
that the community health centers are scared to death that they are 
going to be asked to try topick up that slack of 2.5 million patients. 
That is absolutely a cover for something that doesn't make any sense at 
all.
  I was shocked to read a study over the summer that found that the 
rate of pregnancy-related deaths in the State of Texas,since they did 
away with Planned Parenthood, seems to have doubled since 2010, making 
Texas one of the most dangerous places inthe world to have a baby.
  What was happening in Texas during this time?
  The State legislature was not only making cuts to family planning 
clinics where many low-income women received the onlymedical care they 
got, but the State was absolutely refusing to expand its Medicaid 
program, which would have given lower incomewomen desperately needed 
access to prenatal services.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentlewoman has expired.
  Mr. McGOVERN. I yield the gentlewoman an additional 1 minute.
  Ms. SLAUGHTER. The point being--and one of the things we talked about 
last night at Rules--is that, of the many States inwhich the premiums, 
they thought, had gone reasonably high, these were also the States that 
did not expand Medicaid or set upthe exchanges, which were intended to 
cut the costs. While the causes of maternal deaths are complex, 
certainly leaving womenwithout access to medical care will not do 
anything to decrease that mortality rate.
  Today my Republican friends want to inflict the same harm on pregnant 
women all over the country by taking away the Medicaidexpansion and by 
taking away money for clinics like Planned Parenthood. I cannot believe 
that in this day and age and in thiscentury it is even contemplated. I 
know the American people are paying attention because every day in my 
office we get between20 and 30 calls--and have for the last 2 or 3 
weeks--begging us not to repeal the ACA.
  This agenda has the potential to devastate millions of people from 
coast to coast. Instead of solving problems, the majorityis on the 
verge of creating new ones for families all across the country.
  Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  The gentleman from Massachusetts said in his opening statement that 
he didn't come to Congress to hurt people; that he cameto help people. 
I want to stipulate that that is 100 percent true. There is no one in 
this Chamber who I believe has a biggerheart for men and 

[[Page H482]]

women than the gentleman from Massachusetts, which is why I know that 
he does notsupport what I see happening to my constituency.

  He says people are paying less for their health care today. I dispute 
those numbers writ large, but I know it is true in mydistrict because 
the free healthcare clinic has doubled since the passage of ObamaCare. 
Folks once had access to small plansthat they chose for their families. 
Those plans were outlawed. Now they have high deductible plans that are 
worthless to them,so they seek care at the free clinics. I know that 
ripping the plans out from under those men and women in my district was 
notthe gentleman's intention when he passed the Affordable Care Act, 
but it is absolutely the result.
  I know that when the gentleman set up those exchanges, which all 
Americans were supposed to be able to go to to buy theirhealthcare 
plans, he did not intend for those plans to get canceled year after 
year after year after year, because they wereunsustainable. We all 
know, of the constituents in our districts who did what the government 
told them to do, they lost theplans their employers used to provide; 
they went to the exchanges to buy a plan; and, 1 year later, those 
plans were canceled.They went through the process again: they picked 
out other plans; they went through the exchanges and paid their money; 
and, 1year later, those plans were canceled again and again.
  We all know those constituents; so to suggest that the only reason 
someone would come to the floor today would be to solve anonexistent 
problem is ridiculous. We all know that there are problems. What is 
ridiculous are the folks who would come anddefend the status quo. The 
status quo is indefensible, Mr. Speaker.
  When we get together, we can do amazing things. There are vast 
experiences of the Members in this Chamber, Mr. Speaker, andour 
bringing those to the table leads to better solutions. We have spent 6 
years being stuck in the status quo, and this billrepresents an 
opportunity to turn the page on that status quo, and I know every 
single Member has constituents in his districtwho will welcome it.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.

                              {time}  1000

  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  I just want to help the gentleman understand the benefits of the ACA 
in his home State of Georgia:
  There are 468,000 individuals in the State who have gained coverage 
since the ACA was implemented, and now they could loseit if he gets his 
way.
  478,000 individuals in the State who were able to purchase high-
quality marketplace coverage now stand to lose that coverageif the 
gentleman gets his way.
  In 2016, 427,000 individuals in the State have received financial 
assistance to purchase marketplace coverage; they are atrisk of losing 
that.
  65,000 kids have gained coverage since the ACA was implemented in the 
State of Georgia.
  74,000 young adults are able to stay on their parents' health 
insurance until they are 26 because of the ACA.
  That is all in Georgia. So I would hope the gentleman would 
understand what is happening in his own State before he votes torepeal 
it.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from Connecticut (Mr. 
Courtney).
  Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Speaker, last night Speaker Ryan told a national 
audience on CNN ObamaCare is crumbling. Donald Trumphas said over and 
over again ObamaCare is a disaster. I would like to share just a tiny 
fraction of the emails my office hasreceived in the last few days to 
demonstrate that the opposite is true:
  Peter, a 63-year-old farmer from Ellington, Connecticut:

       ACA has allowed me and my wife accessto quality health 
     care. If this law is repealed, either I sell off my land and 
     livestock or go without insurance.

  Becky, a 41-year-old small-business owner and single mom from 
Enfield, before ACA hadn't seen a doctor in 4 years. Now, sheand her 
kids have a plan for $315 a month.
  George, a 53-year-old freelance designer from Niantic: the past 2 
years, he and his wife with preexisting conditions havebeen covered by 
an affordable plan.
  Michelle, a registered nurse with health issues from Killingworth, 
has the same message.
  Sue from Vernon, her husband has cancer.
  Barbara from North Stonington, a 59-year-old registered nurse, has a 
chronic condition.
  All are watching this destructive process with outrage. For these 
people, the only thing that is crumbling is theirconfidence in Congress 
to do the right thing and stop this rush to repeal.
  As George from Niantic said:

       I have never been so worried for my country.

  Vote ``no'' on repeal. Vote ``no'' on the rule.
  Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  I was not in Congress at the time the Affordable Care Act passed, but 
I remember it, watching from home. We talk about thisas if it was some 
sort of thoughtfully crafted piece of legislation that folks are so 
tremendously proud of. I happen to havethe numbers here, Mr. Speaker.
  It was H.R. 4872 that moved through the House, that was the 
authorizing part. We had three votes in the U.S. House 
ofRepresentatives on that bill. We had a motion to recommit, as it was 
not actually a healthcare bill to begin with, and a vote onfinal 
passage.
  Then it went over to the U.S. Senate where they worked their will on 
it. They had 43 votes on it, amendments offered, ideas,and changes.
  Then it came back to the House where we changed it not at all. There 
was one straight partisan vote on the Affordable CareAct. Not one idea 
from the U.S. House of Representatives added, not one change from the 
U.S. House of Representatives, not onealteration of any kind.
  As you recall, Mr. Speaker, they had a filibuster-proof majority in 
the United States Senate, so Democrats could work theirwill any way 
they wanted. When they lost that filibuster-proof majority--they only 
had 59 votes out of 100 instead of 60--theyended debate, they ended 
discussion, they ended collaboration and jammed what they had passed at 
midnight on Christmas Eve righton through the U.S. House of 
Representatives. I can't imagine who defends that as the proper outcome 
of the legislative process.We have a chance to change that, Mr. 
Speaker.
  I am glad that my friend from Connecticut has some constituents that 
have benefited. I have some constituents that havebenefited. But I have 
constituents who are being failed, and I know my friend from 
Connecticut does, too.
  I am glad that my friends on the other side of the aisle are talking 
about all of their success stories, but I want myfriends to join me and 
grapple with all of the failures.
  I will not deny the way the conversation about health care has 
changed since the passage of the Affordable Care Act--folkstalking 
about preexisting conditions, folks talking about lifetime caps, folks 
talking about keeping young kids on theirpolicies until they are 26.
  I just don't understand why my colleagues would deny that folks who 
used to have care, now don't. Folks who used to haveaffordable plans, 
now don't. Folks who used to be able to take care of their employees 
through their small business plans, nowcan't. This is undisputed, and 
we have an opportunity to do better. I hope my colleagues will join me 
in doing that.
  I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  The gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Woodall) is entitled to his own 
opinions but not his own facts. The facts with regardto the process in 
which the Affordable Care Act was developed, I think, are worth 
repeating here.
  In the House of Representatives, we held nearly 100 hours of hearings 
and 83 hours of committee markups. The House heardfrom 181 witnesses, 
both Democrats and Republicans. 239 amendments were considered in the 
three committeesof jurisdiction, and 121 of them were adopted. The bill 
was available for 72 hours before Members were asked to vote on 
thefloor.

  In the Senate, the Senate Finance Committee held more than 53 
hearings. The committee also spent 8 days marking up thelegislation, 
the longest

[[Page H483]]

markup in the 22 years of the committee. The Senate Health Committee 
held 47 bipartisan hearings,roundtables, and walkthroughs on the 
healthcare reform bill.
  So to say that this was not a thoughtful process is just wrong.
  Compare that to the way this budget bill is being brought to the 
floor. There is no committee consideration, nodeliberation. It is just 
given to us. In fact, most of the committees aren't even organized yet 
in the House of Representatives.
  So there is a contrast there, and I stand with the way we approached 
the Affordable Care Act as opposed to the way theRepublicans have 
approached this budget deal.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from Florida (Mr. 
Soto).
  Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, here is my 1-minute breakdown on why I oppose 
repealing ObamaCare without replacement:
  First, this law protects all Americans with preexisting conditions; 
second, it keeps all young adults on their parents'insurance until age 
26; third, it protects all Americans from bankruptcy if they get sick 
by removing lifetime caps.
  Before the act, millions of Americans were simply kicked off their 
insurance when these problems arose. We Democrats supportkeeping these 
protections for all Americans, and the Republicans want to repeal them. 
We support improving the act, and theRepublicans want to eliminate it.
  While many have stoked fear and spread false information for 
political gain, it is clear that repeal without replacementequals 
disaster. It will eliminate these protections for all Americans, create 
chaos for working families, and send our countryinto another recession.
  It is clear we need to improve the act rather than repeal it. It is 
time to do the right thing for all Floridians and forall Americans.
  Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume 
to share with my friend from Massachusetts (Mr.McGovern) that one is 
not entitled to their own facts, but one is also not entitled to share 
just half the story and leaveit as if it is the entire story.
  Everything the gentleman from Massachusetts said was true, until the 
U.S. House abdicated any responsibility whatsoever andpassed exactly 
what the Senate did with no amendment whatsoever. All of the work 
product the gentleman talked about, all of thework that the gentleman 
talked about went for naught in this U.S. House of Representatives.
  To deny that this is not the bill that folks wanted to have crafted 
is to deny reality. To deny that this is not the billthat folks wanted 
to have crafted is to deny the nine different times the Republican 
House and Senate sent to the Presidentrepeals of ObamaCare, things that 
were so broken even the President couldn't live with it and he signed 
those repeals into law.
  Mr. Speaker, I am not trying to denigrate any of the motives of my 
friends on the other side of the aisle. I just can'tunderstand, for the 
life of me, why they don't want to try to do better.
  That pride of authorship, that arrogance, it has a real impact on the 
men and women that I serve, and I am asking my friendsto partner with 
me to help me fix it. But if they won't partner with me, I am going to 
move forward and fix it anyway.
  I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  We have been willing to work with our Republican friends to try to 
improve the Affordable Care Act for nearly 7 years. Theyhave been 
unwilling to work with us in a bipartisan way. Instead, they just want 
to repeal, repeal, repeal.
  Now, I don't know what their motivation is. Maybe it is because they 
don't like President Obama. Judging from some of therhetoric that we 
have heard on this House floor over these years, I think some of the 
Members over there actually hate thePresident of the United States, and 
this is all driven by this personal animosity.
  Let me just say to the gentleman that the Affordable Care Act may 
have started out with a different bill number, but thefacts remain that 
there were hundreds of hours of hearings on the Affordable Care Act, 
181 witnesses testified; hundreds ofamendments were considered in 
committee.
  The process of using a different bill number is very common in both 
Chambers. In fact, the House Republicans have done itseveral times in 
the past 3 years. Regardless of the bill number, the work that went 
into forming this legislation was one ofthe most open processes in the 
history of the Congress, and it has resulted in providing protections 
and health care formillions and millions of people in this country. All 
of that is at risk with this budget resolution.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from Oregon (Mr. 
Blumenauer).
  Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Speaker, I agree with the gentleman from 
Massachusetts (Mr. McGovern). I was in the middle ofhundreds of hours 
of discussion and debate in committee, on the floor. It is amazing to 
think of all the time and energy thatwent into it.
  Was it a perfect bill? Absolutely not. It would have been much better 
if the legislative process hadn't collapsed in theSenate and forced 
reconciliation as the vehicle.
  The offer to somehow become bipartisan and work together to solve the 
problems ring hollow. I have been on the Ways andMeans Committee for 
the last 6 years when Republicans were in charge with constant efforts 
to repeal ObamaCare, but they refusedto work with us to fine-tune the 
legislation when we could move forward and build on this foundation and 
not be in a situationwhere we are going to unsettle healthcare markets, 
leave people doubting about where they are, and having no clue about 
whatcomes forward.
  There is a reason, after 6 years, the Republicans do not have an 
alternative to offer now. It is because their wildlycontradictory 
promises cannot be met.
  I urge rejection of the rule and rejection of this effort to gut the 
most important healthcare reform in the last 50years.
  Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from 
Illinois (Mr. Shimkus).
  Mr. SHIMKUS. Mr. Speaker, I am on the Energy and Commerce Committee 
the healthcare bill came through. We can debate how manyhearings, how 
many questions, and all of that. The public has rendered judgment on 
this healthcare law.
  In 2010, Republicans took back control of the House over two issues: 
ObamaCare and cap-and-trade. And then our base wassaying to repeal 
ObamaCare, all the way back to 2010.
  In 2014, the Republicans took over the Senate. Our base is saying: 
You have got the House. You have got the Senate. RepealObamaCare. It is 
harmful. It is destructive--and I will tell you why in a minute.
  So why should anybody not expect us, in 2016, when the public has 
rendered judgment again in a national election that wehave to repeal 
ObamaCare?
  So when I talk to my constituents and people talk to me, this is 
going to happen, and we know there is going to be areplacement.
  There are two different ideologies of how to provide care. We believe 
in markets; you believe in centralized control. Webelieve in people 
choosing the best plan for them in the private markets; and those who 
need help and assistance to get in thosemarkets, we are going to help 
them get in those markets. But to have our Federal Government say that 
you only have one of fourchoices--my constituents pay for health care 
that they can't use because they can't pay the deductibles, so they are 
forced tobuy something that they can't use.
  So this is timely. I am glad we are moving expeditiously, and we look 
forward to the year ahead.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, we believe healthcare protections ought to 
be enshrined in the law and not left up toinsurance companies.
  I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from Connecticut (Ms. DeLauro).
  Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to the rule. It 
sets into motion the repeal of the AffordableCare Act.
  This repeal-only bill takes money intended to fund health care for 
middle class families and it hands it to the wealthyfamilies and to big 
health corporations in the form of tax cuts. The public does not know 
this.

[[Page H484]]

  According to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, this bill 
would give the 400 highest income families in the UnitedStates an 
average tax cut of $7 million a year. It would rob millions of families 
of the money they need for their insurance. Ithands it over to the 
wealthy, including nearly $250 billion over 10 years in tax cuts for 
health insurance companies and drugmanufacturers.

                              {time}  1015

  Where are the majority's values? We should be providing more 
Americans with health insurance, not fewer; and we should becreating 
jobs, not eliminating them. This bill is a disgrace. It is a betrayal 
of the working families of this Nation.
  Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 30 seconds just to say 
absolutely none of that is true. Absolutely not one word ofthat is 
true. This bill does not one of those things. This bill does, in fact, 
nothing to change the law at all in any way,shape, or form. It is not 
true. This bill provides a process for debating the law, and I 
certainly hope we will pass it so wecan have that debate.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
California (Mr. Khanna).
  Mr. KHANNA. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to this bill 
which will set forth the repeal of ObamaCare. But I alsoam concerned 
that the bill doesn't have a basic amendment which would allow for the 
importation of drugs from Canada.
  Senator Sanders courageously, on Wednesday night, went on the floor 
and introduced an amendment to allow for theimportation of drugs from 
Canada that the overwhelming number of Republicans and Democrats 
support. It was appalling that 13Senate Democrats voted against the 
Sanders amendment, and they did so because the pharmaceutical industry 
is a cancer on thisbody; the pharmaceutical companies' contributions 
are a cancer.
  We need to allow for the importation of drugs, we need that to be an 
amendment to this bill, and we need to take it up as abody.
  Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, I advise my friend from Massachusetts I do 
not have any further speakers and would be happy toclose when he is 
prepared.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 30 seconds to the gentlewoman from 
Connecticut (Ms. DeLauro).
  Ms. DeLAURO. A report by Families U.S.A. said that repeal of the 
Affordable Care Act equals a huge tax cut for thewealthy.
  What people don't know, and the public doesn't know at the moment, is 
that this will hand over to wealthy and majorcorporations new tax 
breaks worth nearly $600 million--more than a half-trillion dollars 
over 10 years, $345.8 billion over 10years in tax cuts for people whose 
incomes are over a specified threshold; $200,000 for single 
individuals; and $250,000 forfamilies. There are $274.4 billion over 10 
years going to health insurance companies, drug manufacturers, and 
other largehealthcare corporations.
  That is what repeal of the Affordable Care Act does. My colleagues 
need to face up to that, and the public needs to know it.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.
  Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record a letter from the American 
Medical Association, a letter from 120 interfaithgroups, a letter from 
the Consumers Union, a letter from the Massachusetts Health & Hospital 
Association, a letter from a numberof labor organizations in my home 
State of Massachusetts, and a letter from UMassMemorial Community 
Healthlink, which is aprovider of comprehensive health care in my 
district. They are all opposed to undoing the Affordable Care Act.

                                 American Medical Association,

                                      Chicago, IL, January 3,2017.
     Hon. Mitch McConnell,
     Majority Leader, U.S. Senate,
     Washington, DC.
     Hon. Charles E. Schumer,
     Democratic Leader, U.S. Senate,
     Washington, DC.
     Hon. Paul Ryan,
     Speaker, House of Representatives,
     Washington, DC.
     Hon. Nancy Pelosi,
     Democratic Leader, House of Representatives,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Majority Leader McConnell, Leader Schumer, Speaker 
     Ryan and Leader Pelosi: On behalf of thephysician and medical 
     student members of the American Medical Association (AMA), I 
     am writing regarding our ongoing commitmentto reform of the 
     health care system and potential legislative actions during 
     the first months of the 115th Congress.
       The AMAhas long advocated for health insurance coverage for 
     all Americans, as well as pluralism, freedom of choice, 
     freedom ofpractice, and universal access for patients. These 
     policy positions are guided by the actions of the AMA House 
     of Delegates,composed of representatives of more than 190 
     state and national specialty medical associations, and they 
     form the basis for AMAconsideration of reforms to our health 
     care system. (A summary of key AMA objectives for health 
     system reform is attached.)
       Health system reform is an ongoing quest for improvement. 
     The AMA supported passage of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) 
     becauseit was a significant improvement on the status quo at 
     that time. We continue to embrace the primary goal of that 
     law--to makehigh quality, affordable health care coverage 
     accessible to all Americans. We also recognize that the ACA 
     is imperfect and therea number of issues that need to be 
     addressed. As such, we welcome proposals, consistent with the 
     policies of our House ofDelegates, to make coverage more 
     affordable, provide greater choice, and increase the number 
     of those insured.
       In consideringopportunities to make coverage more 
     affordable and accessible to all Americans, it is essential 
     that gains in the number ofAmericans with health insurance 
     coverage be maintained.
       Consistent with this core principle, we believe that before 
     anyaction is taken through reconciliation or other means that 
     would potentially alter coverage, policymakers should lay out 
     for theAmerican people, in reasonable detail, what will 
     replace current policies. Patients and other stakeholders 
     should be able toclearly compare current policy to new 
     proposals so they can make informed decisions about whether 
     it represents a step forwardin the ongoing process of health 
     reform.
       We stand ready to work with you to continue the process of 
     improving our healthcare system and ensuring that all 
     Americans have access to high quality, affordable health care 
     coverage.
           Sincerely,
                                              James L. Madara, MD,
     Executive Vice President, CEO.
                                  ____

                                                 January 12, 2017.
       Dear President-elect Trump and Members of the U.S. 
     Congress: We theundersigned members of the investment and 
     public health communities want to re-affirm our deep 
     commitment to a more accessibleand affordable health care 
     system by voicing our support for the continued expansion of 
     coverage under the Affordable Care Act(ACA).
       In order for our economy to thrive and Americans to 
     prosper, our health care system must be both equitable 
     andefficient. As a result of ACA's implementation, quality 
     and affordable health insurance has been guaranteed to more 
     than 20million previously uninsured Americans. While the ACA 
     has dramatically expanded coverage, we support reforms within 
     theframework of the Act to further contain rising health care 
     costs.
       We agree that thoughtful improvements to the ACA areneeded, 
     but we are deeply concerned by threats to repeal and/or 
     replace the ACA before these improvements are 
     implemented.Repeal of the ACA would destroy the tremendous 
     strides we have made as a nation in expanding coverage, would 
     have adestabilizing effect on jobs, businesses and our 
     economy, and would further jeopardize the health and 
     financial security ofmillions of Americans.
       We call on you, our elected leaders to:
       1) Preserve the Affordable Care Act.
       2) Workcollaboratively with all key stakeholders to improve 
     the ACA and better rein in health care costs.
       3) Make the fiscal andpolitical commitment necessary to 
     expand quality health care coverage to all Americans.
       We pledge to do our part to supportthe ACA and expanded 
     health care coverage through our own operations and beyond, 
     and request that as legislators and leaders ofour nation 
     entrusted with the health of all Americans, you will do the 
     same.
           Sincerely,
       Interfaith Center on CorporateResponsibility; Adrian 
     Dominican Sisters; Amalgamated Bank; American Baptist Home 
     Mission Society; Arc Advisers, LLC;Augustinian Province of 
     St. Thomas of Villanova; Benedictine Sisters; Benedictine 
     Sisters of Baltimore; Benedictine Sisters ofFlorida; 
     Benedictine Sisters of Holy Name; Benedictine Sisters of 
     Mount St. Scholastica; Benedictine Sisters of the 
     SacredHeart; Benedictine Women of Madison, Inc.; Benet Hill 
     Monastery; Bon Secours Health System, Inc.; Boston Common 
     AssetManagement; BVM Shareholder Education & Advocacy Group; 
     CHRISTUS Healthcare; Clean Yield Asset Management.
       Congregation ofDivine Providence Inc.; Congregation of Holy 
     Cross, Moreau Province; Congregation of Sisters of St. Agnes; 
     Congregation of St.Basil; Congregation of the Sisters of 
     Charity of the Incarnate Word; Congregation of the Sisters of 
     Divine Providence; CorporateResponsibility Office of the 
     Sisters of Charity of Nazareth; Daughters of Wisdom; Dignity 
     Health; Diocese of Springfield, IL;Dominican Sisters, 
     Sparkill; Dominican Sisters, Grand Rapids; Dominican

[[Page H485]]

     Sisters of Hope; Dominican Sisters of Houston;Dominican 
     Sisters of Peace; Dominican Sisters of San Rafael; Dominican 
     Sisters of Springfield, IL; Dooley Center; Earth 
     EquityAdvisors.
       Everence and the Praxis Mutual Funds; Felician Franciscan 
     Sisters; Felician Sisters--Buffalo Region; FranciscanAction 
     Network; Franciscan Sisters of Perpetual Adoration; FundX 
     Investment Group; Glenmary Home Missioners; Green 
     America;Health Care Without Harm; Holy Name Monastery; 
     Horizons Sustainable Financial Services, Inc.; Incarnate Word 
     Associates;Incarnate Word Convent; Incarnate Word Sisters; 
     IWBS Associate; Jantz Management LLC; Leadership Council of 
     the Sisters,Servants of the Immaculate Heart of Mary--Monroe, 
     MI; Marist Fathers.
       Maryknoll Sisters; Mennonite Education Agency; 
     MidwestCoalition for Responsible Investment; Miller/Howard 
     Investments, Inc.; Missionary Oblates of Mary Immaculate; 
     Missionary Oblatesof Mary Immaculate, JPIC Office; 
     MomsRising; Mount St. Scholastica Monastery; Newground Social 
     Investment; NorthStar AssetManagement, Inc.; Northwest 
     Coalition for Responsible Investment; Peace/Justice 
     Committee, Benedictine Sisters of FL;Progressive Asset 
     Management; Region VI Coalition for Responsible Investment; 
     Religious of the Sacred Heart of Mary WAP; S&CNorth America; 
     SC Ministry Foundation; School Sisters of Notre Dame 
     Cooperative Investment Fund; School Sisters of St.Francis.
       Sinsinawa Dominican Peace and Justice Office; Sinsinawa 
     Dominican Shareholder Action Committee; Sisters of BonSecours 
     USA; Sisters of Charity BVM; Sisters of Charity Cincinnati; 
     Sisters of Charity of New York; Sisters of Charity of 
     theIncarnate Word; Sisters of Charity, Halifax; Sisters of 
     Incarnate Word and Blessed Sacrament; Sisters of O.L. of 
     ChristianDoctrine; Sisters of St. Dominic of Blauvelt, NY; 
     Sisters of St. Dominic of Caldwell, NJ; Sisters of St. 
     Dominic, Racine, WI;Sisters of St. Francis of Philadelphia; 
     Sisters of St. Joseph; Sisters of St. Joseph of Boston; 
     Sisters of St. Joseph ofChestnut Hill, Philadelphia, PA; 
     Sisters of St. Joseph of Orange; Sisters of St. Joseph of 
     Springfield; Sisters of the GoodShepherd.
       Sisters of the Holy Cross; Sisters of the Humility of Mary; 
     Sisters of the Incarnate Word; Sisters of the IncarnateWord & 
     Blessed Sacrament; Sisters of the Presentation; Sisters of 
     the Presentation of the BVM; Socially Responsible 
     InvestmentCoalition; Society of Mary (Marianists); SRI 
     Investing LLC; St. Jude League; Stardust; The Pension 
     Boards--United Church ofChrist, Inc.; Trillium Asset 
     Management; Trinity Health; Tri-State Coalition for 
     Responsible Investment; Unitarian UniversalistAssociation; 
     United Church Funds; United Methodist Women; University 
     Presbyterian Church; Ursuline Sisters of Tildonk, 
     U.S.Province; Ursulines of the Roman Union--Eastern Province; 
     Veris Wealth Partners; Walden Asset Management; Zevin Asset 
     Management,LLC.
                                  ____



                                              Consumers Union,

                                                 January 11, 2017.
     House ofRepresentatives,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Representative McGovern: On behalf of Consumers Union, 
     thepublic policy and mobilization arm of nonprofit Consumer 
     Reports, I write to express our deep concern that the budget 
     resolutionfor fiscal year 2017 will begin a process that 
     could lead to the repeal of several key parts of the 
     Affordable Care Act (ACA),and could result in tens of 
     millions of Americans losing vital health coverage and the 
     destabilization of insurance markets. Asan organization whose 
     founding principles include ensuring access to quality, 
     affordable health coverage and care for all,Consumers Union 
     is concerned that this would jeopardize both the health and 
     financial stability of Americanfamilies.
       Consumers Union has a long history of working for a fairer 
     and more just marketplace for consumers. We believe 
     allAmericans deserve care and coverage that is accessible, 
     affordable, understandable, fairly priced, and meets high, 
     uniformstandards for quality and safety. The Affordable Care 
     Act was an important step towards this goal, allowing more 
     than 20 millionconsumers to purchase private insurance 
     through exchanges or benefit from the Medicaid expansion, 
     thus lowering the uninsurancerate in our nation to its lowest 
     point ever.
       The ACA also includes a number of critical consumer 
     protections that benefit allconsumers, regardless of the 
     source of their coverage. The law prevents insurers from 
     discriminating against consumers with pre-existing conditions 
     or charging them more for coverage, prohibits insurers from 
     imposing annual or lifetime limits on coverage,and ensures 
     coverage of a comprehensive package of essential health care 
     services. It also takes steps to measure and improvethe 
     safety and quality of care received by all. Consumers Union 
     opposes legislative changes that would eliminate or weaken 
     thesecritical consumer protections.
       A move to repeal the ACA without a simultaneous replacement 
     that, at minimum, maintainscoverage for the number of people 
     currently covered and provides comparable consumer 
     protections would be irresponsible andaffect every American 
     family. It could destabilize the individual market for those 
     who buy insurance for themselves, resultingin fewer choices 
     for consumers and sending premiums skyrocketing while 
     benefits shrink. Consumers do not want to go back to atime in 
     which health insurers ran unchecked and insurance coverage 
     was out-of-reach and unreliable for so manyAmericans.
       Consumers Union strongly urges you to oppose the repealing 
     of the Affordable Care Act.
           Sincerely,

                                               LauraMacCleery,

       Vice President, Consumer Policy and Mobilization, Consumer 
     Reports.
                                  ____

                      Massachusetts Health & Hospital Association,
                                                 January 12, 2017.
     Hon. Elizabeth Warren,
     U.S.Senate, Washington, DC.
     Hon. E. Richard Neal,
     House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
     Hon. Niki Tsongas,
     House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
     Hon. Katherine M. Clark,
     House of Representatives, Washington,DC.
     Hon. Michael E. Capuano,
     House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
     Hon. William Keating,
     House ofRepresentatives, Washington, DC.
     Hon. Edward J. Markey,
     Senate, Washington, DC.
     Hon. Jim McGovern,
     Houseof Representatives, Washington, DC.
     Hon. Joseph P. Kennedy, III,
     House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
     Hon.Seth W. Moulton,
     House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
     Hon. Stephen F. Lynch,
     House of Representatives,Washington, DC.
       Dear Members of the Massachusetts Congressional Delegation: 
     On behalf of our memberhospitals and health systems, the 
     Massachusetts Health and Hospital Association (MHA) opposes 
     the repeal of the Affordable CareAct (ACA). MHA is a founding 
     member of the new Massachusetts Coalition for Coverage and 
     Care that was formed to preserve andimprove access to health 
     insurance coverage in Massachusetts and to protect the gains 
     in access to care, health, and healthequity that have 
     resulted from near universal coverage. We stand ready both as 
     an individual organization and as a coalitionmember to 
     provide you the information and resources you will need to 
     oppose efforts to repeal the ACA.
       As you know,Massachusetts has been a pioneer in expanding 
     health coverage over the years, including our state's 
     historic 2006 health reformlaw that served as a model for the 
     ACA. We believe our state serves as an example of how the 
     ACA's approach to expanding accessto affordable health 
     coverage can be successful nationally if given the time and 
     support it deserves. With 10 years now passedsince then-
     Governor Mitt Romney signed our initial health reform 
     initiative into law, we can proudly say that the 
     commonwealthis better off than where we stood in 2005. We 
     know we share this sentiment with other Massachusetts 
     healthcare providers,insurers, the employer community, 
     government leaders, and, most importantly, Massachusetts 
     consumers and families. With time,support, and improvements 
     to the ACA, we know the country will value and appreciate the 
     full benefits of ensuring access toaffordable health coverage 
     to all citizens as well as creating an environment for our 
     health system to better manage itsresources and deliver high-
     quality care.
       While we were successful in achieving expanded coverage 
     prior to the ACA, it tooktime and the collective effort of 
     all stakeholders to achieve the reductions in uninsured. 
     Expanding Medicaid was essential toproviding coverage to the 
     poorest individuals in our society. First through waivers and 
     then through the ACA, the federalgovernment has played an 
     instrumental role in supporting coverage to economically 
     challenged Massachusetts residents.Approximately 300,000 
     individuals now are covered due to the ACA's Medicaid 
     expansion, many of whom would otherwise be unable toafford 
     health insurance in the commercial market even with 
     government subsidies.
       Since 2006, our state's health insuranceexchange has 
     consistently served as a dynamic marketplace for those 
     purchasing insurance in the small group and non-groupmarket. 
     In Massachusetts, we have modified our exchange to conform to 
     the ACA and it remains as robust as it did 10 years ago.The 
     state's Health Connector has experienced broad participation 
     from many health insurers, with 10 insurers currently 
     offering62 insurance products. Lower and middle income 
     individuals have relied on the exchange for the past decade 
     to shop foraffordable health coverage, benefitting from 
     subsidy support, which now comes in the form of federal tax 
     credits and co-paymentsubsidies. More than 234,000 
     individuals purchased their insurance coverage through the 
     state's exchange in December, includingmore than 190,000 with 
     the support of federal advanced premium tax credits. Another 
     1,300 small groups covering more than 6,000lives also 
     purchased insurance in the exchange.
       The effect of these expansions in reducing the number of 
     uninsured has beenwell documented. According to the United 
     States Census Bureau, Massachusetts had 97.2% of its 
     population covered with healthinsurance in 2015 compared to 
     89.3% for the three-year average between 2002 and 2005. This 
     coverage expansion had its greatesteffect on people with 
     great healthcare needs, working adults with disabilities, 
     younger adults, people with low incomes, andwomen--all who 
     gained coverage at a faster rate than the general population. 
     And while there are many statistics that highlightthe 
     achievements made in expanding coverage, there has been a 
     tremendous positive effect on individual lives

[[Page H486]]

     as result ofbetter access to care. Researchers have found 
     improvements in physical health, mental health, functional 
     limitations, jointdisorders, and body mass index for those in 
     Massachusetts, especially for those with low incomes, 
     minorities, near-elderlyadults, and women. Individuals here 
     and around the country also no longer fear not being able to 
     access health coverage due topre-existing conditions or 
     having inadequate health coverage during their times of 
     medical need.
       The cost of providing careto the uninsured also has been 
     significantly reduced due to reform. In Massachusetts, our 
     state's Uncompensated Care Poolcovered hospital care for low-
     income uninsured and underinsured residents for decades. In 
     FY2005 hospital uncompensated carecosts totaled $702 million, 
     or $992 million adjusting for inflation. This financial 
     burden to hospitals, insurers, andgovernment was yet another 
     reason to address affordable coverage for low-income 
     residents so care could be better managed withinsurance 
     coverage, including Medicaid. Hospital costs in the program's 
     successor, now called the Health Safety Net, was $407million 
     in FY2016--or 59% percent less than prior to our 2006 reform 
     adjusting for inflation. While there have been some changesto 
     the program over the years, undoubtedly the most significant 
     contributor to this reduction has been the expansion 
     ofcoverage. Also, it is impossible to calculate the unknown 
     potential for increased numbers of uninsured if affordable 
     healthinsurance had not been introduced in 2006 and 
     maintained for the past 10 years.
       A repeal of the ACA would turn back the clockhere in 
     Massachusetts. Attempting to revert back to our Massachusetts 
     coverage programs that existed before the ACA would not 
     beaccomplished easily and would involve significant 
     challenges related to the federal support needed for the 
     current level ofcoverage as well as hospital uncompensated 
     care for uninsured residents. The current subsidized 
     insurance offerings in thestate's Connector exchange are now 
     built off of the ACA federal tax credit approach, and the 
     financing of that coverage isheavily dependent on federal 
     funding. On the Medicaid side, the ACA expanded Medicaid 
     eligibility even in states likeMassachusetts that had higher 
     levels of Medicaid coverage through waivers. Massachusetts 
     would likely need to seek a waiver tomaintain that coverage 
     through Medicaid if the ACA expansions were repealed. Of 
     great concern, losing the ACA's enhanced federalMedicaid 
     funding for these expansions would be a significant issue as 
     the MassHealth program is already facing financialchallenges 
     with growing enrollment and reimbursement cuts to hospitals 
     and other providers.
       The ACA also ushered in profoundinnovations that have 
     improved how healthcare is paid for and delivered. These 
     enhancements improved quality of care, improvedvalue, 
     enhanced integration and collaborations in delivering care, 
     and expanded preventive health screening. And other 
     federalstatutes, like meaningful use electronic medical 
     record changes and the new Medicare physician payment law 
     (MACRA), are designedto integrate with the ACA for success. 
     The ACA included many less well known provisions that have 
     improved the integrity of ourhealthcare system, such as the 
     ``sunshine'' act provisions which greatly improved 
     transparency in the financial relationshipsbetween clinicians 
     and manufacturers. These are only a handful of the examples 
     of how significantly the ACA has changed the waywe deliver 
     healthcare and, either directly or indirectly, has led to 
     improvements in access and quality for everyone.
       As youknow, our hospitals are also in the midst of 
     responding to an opioid use crisis, increased prescription 
     drug prices, abehavioral health system in drastic need of 
     repair, and an aging patient population--all with limited 
     financial resources. TheMassachusetts healthcare system is 
     also focused on improving the delivery of care and achieving 
     cost savings through increasedcare coordination. The ACA 
     aligns financial incentives and alternative payments as 
     levers for improving healthcare quality whiledriving down 
     costs. Without comprehensive health coverage, progress on all 
     of these efforts will be seriously challenged.
       Indollar terms the picture is very clear if the ACA were to 
     be repealed--especially since a large part of the funding for 
     the ACAcame from payment cuts to hospitals, and since those 
     cuts may continue despite repeal of essential ACA components. 
     A recentstudy commissioned by the American Hospital 
     Association (AHA) and Federation of American Hospitals (FAH) 
     found that hospitalsstand to lose $289.5 billion in Medicare 
     inflation updates alone from 2018 to 2026 if the payment cuts 
     in the ACA are continued,and estimated further hospital 
     losses of $102.9 billion if Medicare and Medicaid 
     disproportionate share hospital reductions areretained. The 
     effect of these losses in Massachusetts would be $12.3 
     billion over this time period, according to the study. 
     Thereport also estimates that nationwide insurance coverage 
     losses without a replacement would have an additional $165.8 
     billionfinancial impact on hospitals in this same time 
     period. The AHA/FAH analysis also estimates the cumulative 
     federal paymentreductions to hospital services that have been 
     imposed through other actions subsequent to, and independent 
     of, the ACA; thesecuts total another $148 billion nationally 
     from 2010 to 2026, and come on top of the ACA cuts.
       The ACA, like Medicare in1965, has had its growing pains, 
     but the benefits of the ACA far exceed any ongoing problems. 
     As with any comprehensive law ithas been a work in progress. 
     We are still trying to review all the potential aspects of 
     what repeal might mean, but simplygetting beyond the key 
     threats of repeal is difficult; the effect on coverage and on 
     the Medicaid waiver programs, the end ofquality initiatives, 
     and the great hospital financial hit of not reversing the 
     cuts in place to pay for expansion are allextraordinarily 
     troubling. To our knowledge, no proposal has been floated 
     that would actually maintain insurance coverage thatnow 
     currently exists as a result of the ACA, or that would 
     continue the quality and delivery system improvements 
     nowunderway.
       Our hospitals, and the thousands of healthcare employees in 
     the commonwealth, are on the frontline of providingsome of 
     the best healthcare in the world. Every day Americans see the 
     importance of access to high-quality, cost-
     effectivehealthcare, and millions more are insured because of 
     the ACA. We will work with you to ensure that affordable 
     health coverage issustained so that our efforts can continue 
     to focus on the payment and delivery reforms which 
     remainunderway.
           Sincerely,
                                                    Lynn Nicholas,
     MHA President & CEO.
                                  ____

                                                 January 12, 2017.
     Congressman Jim McGovern,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear CongressmanMcGovern: We write today on behalf of 
     adults and children, persons with lived experience, family 
     members, providers, andorganized labor that make up the 
     mental health and addiction disorders advocacy community to 
     urge you to strongly oppose anymajor restructuring of the 
     Medicaid program.
       A study done by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health 
     Services Administration(SAMHSA) concluded that one in five 
     Americans experience a mental illness or addiction in any 
     given year. The number of adultsand children in the 
     Commonwealth who need behavioral health care services is 
     staggering. In 2015 in Massachusetts, about 4.2% ofall adults 
     aged 18 or older had a serious mental illness within the year 
     prior to being surveyed; 46.2% of these individual didnot 
     receive any mental health treatment/counseling during that 
     time period.
       Massachusetts and the United States as a wholeare in the 
     midst of an unprecedented opioid epidemic. In Massachusetts, 
     an estimated 1475 individuals died from January 2016 
     toSeptember 2016. The first 9 months of 2016 saw a higher 
     opioid overdose rate than the first 9 months of 2015. 
     Nationwide, morepeople died from drug overdoses in 2014 than 
     in any year on record, and the majority of drug overdose 
     deaths (more than six outof ten) involved an opioid.
       We know that recovery is possible for these individuals 
     with effective treatment and supports,which is why preserving 
     Medicaid funding for vital treatment services is so 
     important.
       In 2014, spending by Medicaidaccounted for 25% of all 
     mental health spending in the U.S. and 21% of all substance 
     use disorder expenditures in the nation.People with 
     behavioral health conditions are nearly one-third of the ACA 
     expansion population.
       Republican proposals todrastically restructure Medicaid 
     will shift costs onto states and enrollees, restrict access 
     to care, and increase the number ofuninsured and 
     underinsured. The ultimate goal of re-financing Medicaid into 
     block grants/per capita caps is to massively cut theamount of 
     federal spending for Medicaid. According to House Speaker 
     Paul Ryan's proposed Medicaid plan, these proposed 
     changeswould result in a total of $1 trillion in cuts to 
     federal Medicaid spending over the next ten years. 
     Massachusetts would then beforced to increase state spending 
     on the Commonwealth's Medicaid program, and/or reduce 
     eligibility, payments to providers, orbenefits.
       Proponents of the block grant/per capita cap approach have 
     argued that states would gain greater flexibility indesigning 
     and managing their Medicaid programs. However, block grants/
     per capita caps will not provide any greater 
     programmaticflexibility to states than they have under 
     current law. States currently work with CMS through the 
     section 1115 waiver processto tailor their Medicaid program 
     to fit the needs of their specific state.
       We are especially concerned about how many of theproposals 
     being offered by the President-Elect and Republican members 
     of Congress will impact access to vital behavioral 
     healthservices. The pressure on state Medicaid programs and 
     the corresponding efforts to reduce funding and eligibility 
     will putmental health and substance use disorder services at 
     significant risk. The risk to behavioral health services is 
     so high becauseMassachusetts, like the rest of the nation, is 
     not required to cover mental health and addiction treatment 
     services as part ofour state Medicaid program.
       Over the past decade, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts has 
     implemented many reforms to improvehealth care delivery in 
     the Massachusetts. Despite these efforts, access to a robust 
     continuum of behavioral health servicescontinues to be a 
     challenge for individuals living with a mental health and/or 
     addiction disorder. Any changes that result inreduced funding 
     for Massachusetts' Medicaid program will only exacerbate this 
     problem as Medicaid continues to be the largestpayer of these 
     services across the Commonwealth.

[[Page H487]]

       It is imperative that adults, children and families be able 
     to accessthe services they need, when they need them, where 
     they need them. These services should be person-centered, 
     outcome-orientedand clinically and cost effective. Massive 
     cuts to Medicaid funding will make the provisions of such 
     services almostimpossible.
       Thank you very much for your attention to this important 
     matter. Our organizations are available at yourconvenience to 
     answer any questions you or your staff may have in relation 
     to our letter.
           Sincerely,
       Vicker DiGravio III,President/CEO, Association for 
     Behavioral Healthcare; Monica Valdes Lupi, JD, MPH, Executive 
     Director, Boston Public HealthCommission; Emily Stewart, 
     Executive Director, Casa Esperanza; Nancy Allen Scannell, 
     Children's Mental Health Campaign; ErinBradley, Executive 
     Director, Children's League; Melody Hugo, Director, 
     Clinicians United; John McGahan, President/CEO, 
     GavinFoundation & Recovery Homes Collaborative; Stephen 
     Rosenfeld, Interim Executive Director, Health Care For All; 
     Matt Selig,Executive Director, Health Law Advocates; David 
     Matteodo, Executive Director, Massachusetts Association of 
     Behavioral HealthSystems; Danna Mauch, Ph.D., President/CEO, 
     Massachusetts Association for Mental Health; Steve Walsh, 
     President & CEO,Massachusetts Council of Community Hospitals.
       Georgia Katsoulomitis, Executive Director, Massachusetts 
     Law Reform Institute;Joseph Weeks, LMHC, President & Midge 
     Williams, LMHC Executive Director, Massachusetts Mental 
     Health Counselors Association;Maryanne Frangules, Executive 
     Director, Massachusetts Organization for Addiction Recovery; 
     Mark J. Hauser, M.D., President,Massachusetts Psychiatric 
     Society; Mary McGeown, Executive Director, Massachusetts 
     Society for the Prevention of Cruelty toChildren; Laurie 
     Martinelli, LICSW, NAMI Massachusetts; Carol J. Trust, LICSW, 
     Executive Director, National Association ofSocial Workers--MA 
     Chapter; Lisa Lambert, Executive Director PPAL; Michael 
     Weekes, President & CEO, Providers Council; PeterMacKinnon, 
     President, SEIU 509; Siva Sundaram, Student Coalition on 
     Addiction.
                                  ____

                                                    UMass Memorial


                                          CommunityHealthlink,

                                                 January 10, 2017.
     Attn: Jennifer Chandler, Chief of Staff,
     Hon. Representative JimMcGovern,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Representative McGovern: On behalf of Community 
     Healthlinklocated in Worcester, Leominster and Fitchburg 
     Massachusetts, I am writing today to urge and request your 
     support in protectingthe Affordable Care Act and preserving 
     Medicaid expansion in the 115th Congress.
       We provide care to approximately 20,000 ofthe 
     Commonwealth's most vulnerable individuals. We deliver 
     outpatient mental health and substance abuse services, 
     residentialprograms for those with mental illness and 
     addiction, detoxification and stabilization services, 
     emergency services forWorcester and North Central 
     Massachusetts, for youth and adults. We also provide primary 
     care for a significant number of adultsin addition to 
     services for the homeless in Worcester. The vast majority of 
     our patients are Medicaid eligible and many of theadults are 
     disabled due to mental illness. Though Massachusetts lead the 
     way with covering all of its citizens, at this pointthe ACA 
     provides a good deal of the funding that we need to continue 
     to provide this near universal coverage.
       Recent healthinsurance data show that Americans with mental 
     health and substance use disorders are the single largest 
     beneficiaries of theAffordable Care Act's Medicaid expansion. 
     Approximately one in three people who receive health 
     insurance coverage through theMedicaid expansion either have 
     a mental illness, substance use disorder or both 
     simultaneously. By repealing the Medicaidexpansion, this 
     population of vulnerable American would be left without 
     access to lifesaving treatment, driving up costs inemergency 
     room visits and hospital stays.
       Moreover, I am writing to urge your support for the 
     protection of the Medicaidprogram from proposals to 
     restructure Medicaid as a block grant or capped program. 
     These proposals would reduce federalinvestment in Medicaid 
     and leave millions of Americans without access to needed 
     mental health and addictions treatment in ourstate and 
     communities. Please work with your colleagues to protect our 
     nation's most vulnerable patient population and preservetheir 
     access to treatment.
       Thank you for your continued support. I would be honored to 
     help you in any way possible.
           Sincerely,
     Marie Hobart, MD,
       Chief Medical Officer, Community Healthlink Clinical 
     Associate Professor of PsychiatryUniversity of Massachusetts 
     Medical School.

  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues to vote ``no'' on 
the previous question, and that would allow us tovote on an amendment 
by Mr. Pocan which would create a point of order against any 
legislation that would cut the benefitsunder Social Security, Medicare 
or Medicaid, or attempts to privatize Social Security.
  So if you want to protect those programs, and if you are against 
privatizing Social Security, then vote against the previousquestion so 
we can bring this up.
  Finally, Mr. Speaker, let me just say that this is a sad day because 
what we are doing here by voting for this budget issetting in motion a 
process to deny millions of people healthcare protections. I can't 
imagine why anybody would want to dothat.
  Is the Affordable Care Act perfect? No, and we are the first to admit 
it. We want to work in a bipartisan way to strengthenit, to make it 
better, and to make it less onerous on certain businesses. But my 
colleagues don't want to do that. They aredetermined just to vote for 
an outright repeal, and that is going to hurt countless people in this 
country, people who have nowbenefited from no preexisting conditions, 
people who have benefited from allowing their kids to stay on their 
insurance untilthey are 26, and senior citizens who have benefited from 
closing the doughnut hole. I could go on and on and on. All of that 
isabout to be eliminated.
  We are told that there will be replacement someday, somehow. For 6 
years--over 6 years--you have been talking about repealingthe 
Affordable Care Act and a replacement, and you haven't brought one bill 
to the floor--not one.
  Now, we believe that health care ought to be a right; I know you 
don't. We believe that healthcare protections ought to bein law; you 
believe they ought to be up to the insurance company. But this is a 
lousy thing to do. As I said in my openingstatement, we are going to 
fight you on this. This is a fight worth having. Protecting people's 
health care is something that weall should be dedicated to, and we're 
going to fight you on this.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Members are reminded to address their 
remarks to the Chair.
  Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  I am fond of telling folks back home, Mr. Speaker, when they tell me 
they know exactly what is going to happen over the next2 years, that I 
don't think they are telling me the truth. Because I confess to you, I 
have absolutely no idea what is comingover these next 2 years. I think 
these next 2 years are going to be unlike any we have seen in the 
history of self-governance inthis land; and, candidly, I am excited 
about that because the status quo isn't working for the 700,000 people 
that I represent.
  I don't know what's going to happen over these next 2 years, but I 
believe that, for the first time, we are going to grapplewith some 
really, really, really hard problems that folks on both sides of the 
aisle have been ignoring for too long.
  Mr. Speaker, I don't question the commitment of my friends on the 
other side of the aisle to the American people. I questionthe 
legislation that they use to deliver it. You heard my friend from 
Oklahoma talk about premiums going up 67 percent for hisconstituents. 
That is indefensible. It is not okay. We can do better, and, with the 
passage of this budget resolution, we willhave the tools to do that. I 
say again, the law will be the same tomorrow as it is today, but we 
will have the tools to grapplewith these problems.
  Eight million Americans were so failed by the Affordable Care Act 
that they paid a tax penalty instead of accessing care.That is not 
okay. I don't believe a single Member on the other side of the aisle 
decided they just wanted to tax young peopleinstead of provide young 
people with quality care. This budget will give us the opportunity to 
have the tools to fix thatproblem.
  Billions of dollars, Mr. Speaker, have gone into State-based co-ops 
that have failed, gone bankrupt, and terminated all oftheir plans which 
not only ripped health care out from under the American people, Mr. 
Speaker, but threw billions of dollarsaway in administrative costs at 
the same time. That is not okay. That is indefensible. We can do 
better. Passing this budgetresolution will give us those tools.
  Mr. Speaker, I made a commitment in the Rules Committee last night to 
do everything I could to stop poisoning the well ofpublic discourse. 
Then I re-

[[Page H488]]

upped for the Rules Committee, and I realized that is going to be a 
tough promise to fulfill.We have difficult work to do, and we are 
passionate about the quality of that work.
  But, Mr. Speaker, we all know the status quo has failed. We all know 
that we have the opportunity to deliver, and we allknow that a vote of 
``yes'' on this budget resolution will give us more tools to deliver 
that success than we have today. Weneed to do this. We need to 
celebrate doing this.
  Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to support the rule and support the 
two underlying measures that it will bring to thefloor.
  Mr. ELLISON. Mr. Speaker, we are voting on a Budget Resolution later 
today that makes it possible to take away healthcoverage from tens of 
millions of people.
  But the Democrats know that this is just the beginning.
  Congressional Republicans have started their plans to not just repeal 
the Affordable Care Act, but to gut Medicare, Medicaidand Social 
Security.
  Republican proposals would threaten nursing home coverage for 
millions of seniors, undermine comprehensive health care forchildren by 
cutting Medicaid, and slash benefits earned after years of hard work.
  The CPC and Congressional Democrats will not stand for this. That is 
why we introduced an amendment that would ensure theBudget Resolution 
we are voting on today or any future bill can't be used to cut benefits 
from Social Security, Medicare orMedicaid, increase the retirement age 
for these benefits, or privatize Social Security.
  But, the majority is not allowing debate or a vote on our amendment.
  This sends a clear message: Congressional Republicans are willing to 
put the lives and futures of millions of children,seniors and working 
families at risk.
  It also puts them on the wrong side of history. Cutting Medicare, 
Medicaid and Social Security is not what the Americanpeople want.
  President-elect Trump has promised several times that he will not 
support cuts to these important programs that helpmillions of Americans 
make ends meet.
  This leaves Congressional Republicans in a tough spot. Whose side are 
they on?
  Will they commit to protecting hard-working Americans? Will they 
protect America's children? Seniors? What about people 
withdisabilities?
  Or, will they yet again cut the benefits of working people so they 
can give tax breaks to big corporations?
  The Congressional Progressive Caucus and House Democrats will not 
back down. We will oppose any cuts to Medicare, Medicaid,and Social 
Security.
  I urge my colleagues to vote no and defeat the previous question so 
we can bring up the CPC amendment to block the House GOPfrom cutting 
Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security.
  Will House Republicans stand with us?
  Today, 55 million older people and people with disabilities have 
health care because of Medicare.
  82 percent of Americans--including 74 percent of Republicans, 88 
percent of Democrats and 83 percent of independents--agree itis 
critical to preserve Social Security for future generations even if it 
means increasing Social Security taxes paid by workingAmericans.
  In 2015, 11 million Americans became newly eligible for Medicaid 
thanks to Medicaid expansion.
  If Republicans repeal the ACA, at least 11 million people's Medicaid 
coverage will be at risk.
  The House Republican budget plan far fiscal year 2017 would have cut 
federal Medicaid funding by $1 trillion--or nearly 25percent--over ten 
years. That is in addition to ending Medicaid expansion.
  The Urban Institute estimated that the 2012 Ryan proposal would lead 
states to drop between 14.3 million and 20.5 millionpeople from 
Medicaid by the tenth year, in addition to the effects of repealing 
health reform's Medicaid expansion.
  The material previously referred to by Mr. McGovern is as follows:

           An Amendment to H. Res. 48 Offered by Mr. McGovern

       At the end of theresolution, add the following new 
     sections:
       Sec. 3. Notwithstanding any other provision of this 
     resolution, followinggeneral debate on Senate Concurrent 
     Resolution 3 and prior to consideration of the amendment 
     printed in the report of theCommittee on Rules accompanying 
     this resolution, the amendment specified in section 4 shall 
     be in order if offered byRepresentative Pocan of Wisconsin or 
     a designee. Such amendment shall be considered as read, shall 
     be debatable for 10 minutesequally divided and controlled by 
     the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to 
     amendment, and shall not be subject toa demand for division 
     of the question in the House or in the Committee of the 
     Whole. All points of order against such amendmentare waived.
       Sec. 4. The amendment referred to in section 3 is as 
     follows:
       At the end of the concurrent resolution,add the following:

     SEC. __. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD 
                   BREAKDONALD TRUMP'S PROMISE NOT TO CUT SOCIAL 
                   SECURITY, MEDICARE, OR MEDICAID.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in orderin the House 
     of Representatives or the Senate to consider any bill, joint 
     resolution, motion, amendment, amendment between theHouses, 
     or conference report that would--
       (1) result in a reduction of guaranteed benefits scheduled 
     under title II of theSocial Security Act (42 U.S.C. 401 et 
     seq.);
       (2) increase either the early or full retirement age for 
     the benefits describedin paragraph (1);
       (3) privatize Social Security;
       (4) result in a reduction of guaranteed benefits for 
     individuals entitledto, or enrolled for, benefits under the 
     Medicare program under title XVIII of 18 such Act (42 U.S.C. 
     1395 et seq.); or
       (5)result in a reduction of benefits or eligibility for 
     individuals enrolled in, or eligible to receive medical 
     assistance through,a State Medicaid plan or waiver under 
     title XIX of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 5 et seq.).
       (b) Waiver and Appeal in theSenate.--Subsection (a) may be 
     waived or suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote 
     of three-fifths of the Members,duly chosen and sworn. An 
     affirmative vote of three-fifths of the Members of the 
     Senate, duly chosen and sworn, shall berequired to sustain an 
     appeal of the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised 
     under subsection (a).
       (c) Waiver inthe House.--It shall not be in order in the 
     House of Representatives to consider a rule or order that 
     waives the applicationof subsection (a). As disposition of a 
     point of order under this subsection, the Chair shall put the 
     question of considerationwith respect to the rule or order, 
     as applicable. The question of consideration shall be 
     debatable for 10 minutes by the Memberinitiating the point of 
     order and for 10 minutes by an opponent, but shall otherwise 
     be decided without intervening motionexcept one that the 
     House adjourn.

         The Vote on the Previous Question: What it ReallyMeans

       This vote, the vote on whether to order the previous 
     question on a special rule, is not merely a procedural vote. 
     Avote against ordering the previous question is a vote 
     against the Republican majority agenda and a vote to allow 
     the Democraticminority to offer an alternative plan. It is a 
     vote about what the House should be debating.
       Mr. Clarence Cannon's Precedentsof the House of 
     Representatives (VI, 308-311), describes the vote on the 
     previous question on the rule as ``a motion to director 
     control the consideration of the subject before the House 
     being made by the Member in charge.'' To defeat the 
     previousquestion is to give the opposition a chance to decide 
     the subject before the House. Cannon cites the Speaker's 
     ruling of January13, 1920, to the effect that ``the refusal 
     of the House to sustain the demand for the previous question 
     passes the control ofthe resolution to the opposition'' in 
     order to offer an amendment. On March 15, 1909, a member of 
     the majority party offered arule resolution. The House 
     defeated the previous question and a member of the opposition 
     rose to a parliamentary inquiry, askingwho was entitled to 
     recognition. Speaker Joseph G. Cannon (R-Illinois) said: 
     ``The previous question having been refused, thegentleman 
     from New York, Mr. Fitzgerald, who had asked the gentleman to 
     yield to him for an amendment, is entitled to the 
     firstrecognition.''
       The Republican majority may say ``the vote on the previous 
     question is simply a vote on whether to proceed toan 
     immediate vote on adopting the resolution .  .  . [and] has 
     no substantive legislative or policy implications 
     whatsoever.'' Butthat is not what they have always said. 
     Listen to the Republican Leadership Manual on the Legislative 
     Process in the UnitedStates House of Representatives, (6th 
     edition, page 135). Here's how the Republicans describe the 
     previous question vote intheir own manual: ``Although it is 
     generally not possible to amend the rule because the majority 
     Member controlling the timewill not yield for the purpose of 
     offering an amendment, the same result may be achieved by 
     voting down the previous question onthe rule .  .  .  . When 
     the motion for the previous question is defeated, control of 
     the time passes to the Member who led theopposition to 
     ordering the previous question. That Member, because he then 
     controls the time, may offer an amendment to therule, or 
     yield for the purpose of amendment.''
       In Deschler's Procedure in the U.S. House of 
     Representatives, the subchaptertitled ``Amending Special 
     Rules'' states: ``a refusal to order the previous question on 
     such a rule [a special rule reportedfrom the Committee on 
     Rules] opens the resolution to amendment and further 
     debate.'' (Chapter 21, section 21.2) Section 21.3continues: 
     ``Upon rejection of the motion for the previous question on a 
     resolution reported from the Committee on Rules,control 
     shifts to the Member leading the opposition to the previous 
     question, who may offer a proper amendment or motion and 
     whocontrols the time for debate thereon.''

[[Page H489]]

       Clearly, the vote on the previous question on a rule does 
     have substantivepolicy implications. It is one of the only 
     available tools for those who oppose the Republican 
     majority's agenda and allowsthose with alternative views the 
     opportunity to offer an alternative plan.

  Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time, and I 
move the previous question on the resolution.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on ordering the previous 
question.
  The question was taken; and the Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 9 of rule XX, the Chair 
will reduce to 5 minutes the minimum time for anyelectronic vote on the 
question of adoption of the resolution.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--yeas 234, 
nays 179, not voting 21, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 55]

                               YEAS--234

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Beutler
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Bridenstine
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Chaffetz
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Costello (PA)
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Diaz-Balart
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Garrett
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Graves(MO)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jones
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Katko
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     LoBiondo
     Long
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     MacArthur
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Meehan
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Posey
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Roskam
     Ross
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Sanford
     Scalise
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith(NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tiberi
     Tipton
     Trott
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber(TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                               NAYS--179

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Becerra
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop(GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu,Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Courtney
     Cuellar
     Cummings
     Davis (CA)
     Davis,Danny
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, MichaelF.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty
     Foster
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green,Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     JacksonLee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson, E. B.
     Kaptur
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham,M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney,Sean
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meng
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Ryan(OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth

                             NOT VOTING--21

     Costa
     Crist
     Crowley
     Evans
     Frankel (FL)
     Huffman
     Johnson (GA)
     Keating
     Meeks
     Moore
     Mulvaney
     Pelosi
     Pompeo
     Price, Tom (GA)
     Rush
     Rutherford
     Suozzi
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters,Maxine
     Young (AK)
     Zinke

                              {time}  1047

  Messrs. DOGGETT and CLYBURN changed their vote from ``yea'' to 
``nay.''
  Messrs. BRADY of Texas, SMITH of New Jersey, and JORDAN changed their 
vote from ``nay'' to ``yea.''
  So the previous question was ordered.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the resolution.
  The question was taken; and the Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it.


                             Recorded Vote

  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I demand a recorded vote.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. This will be a 5-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 235, 
noes 188, not voting 11, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 56]

                               AYES--235

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Beutler
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Bridenstine
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Chaffetz
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Costello (PA)
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Diaz-Balart
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Garrett
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Graves(MO)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jones
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Katko
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     LoBiondo
     Long
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     MacArthur
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Meehan
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Posey
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Roskam
     Ross
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Sanford
     Scalise
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith(NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)

[[Page H490]]


     Thornberry
     Tiberi
     Tipton
     Trott
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters,Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                               NOES--188

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Becerra
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     BluntRochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu,Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costa
     Courtney
     Crist
     Cuellar
     Cummings
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, MichaelF.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty
     Evans
     Foster
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green,Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     JacksonLee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Kaptur
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham,M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney,Sean
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Ryan(OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     WatsonColeman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth

                             NOT VOTING--11

     Crowley
     Frankel (FL)
     Huffman
     Mulvaney
     Pelosi
     Pompeo
     Price, Tom (GA)
     Rush
     Rutherford
     Suozzi
     Zinke

                              {time}  1053

  So the resolution was agreed to.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.


                          personal explanation

  Mr. SUOZZI. Mr. Speaker, I was not able to vote during the following 
rollcall votes. Had I been present, I would have votedin the following 
manner. On vote roll No. 55, I would have voted ``nay.'' On vote roll 
No. 56, I would have voted ``nay.''

                          ____________________



