

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 28 (Thursday, February 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 28 (Thursday, February 16, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1300]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        TRIBUTE TO DEBORAH WICKS

 Mr. COONS. Mr. President, I rise to honor the exemplary 
service of the Smyrna Delaware School District Superintendent, Deborah 
Wicks, and recognize her upcoming retirement. For nearly half a 
century, she has been an exceptional teacher and leader, serving in 
many positions throughout Delaware's fastest growing school district. 
Her hard work, perseverance, and dedication will truly be missed by 
students, parents, and Delawareans up and down our State.
  Since 1967, Debbie has played an active and integral role within the 
Smyrna Delaware School District, serving as a special education teacher 
for 16 years and an associate principal for 4 years, before serving as 
the district's superintendent for 19 years. Throughout her time in the 
district, Debbie has been a key leader, instrumental in the successful 
completion of many projects like the John Bassett Moore Intermediate 
School and the School Special Services Building. As she steps down from 
her position as superintendent in June, I join the many Delawareans she 
has worked with in thanking Deborah for her diligent efforts to improve 
the education system for Delaware's children through hard work and 
diligence.
  A native of Smyrna, DE, and educated in the same school system that 
she serves so faithfully, Debbie has always been a champion for 
students, teachers, and the local community. Being a champion to Debbie 
means helping to instill values of integrity, compassion, perseverance, 
respect, and responsibility--values visible in the hallways and 
classrooms of the schools in Smyrna and in the hearts of its graduates.
  Debbie's success can be attributed not only to a commitment to 
instill essential values in district students, but also to a genuine 
passion for the betterment of her community. Her ability to develop and 
foster community relationships essential to the district's long-term 
educational success can be seen in numerous completed projects and 
building upgrades, as well as the annual ``I Love Smyrna School 
District Day,'' which has drawn close to 7,000 attendees in recent 
years.
  Debbie's work has been nothing short of inspirational, and we are 
sincerely grateful for all that she has done on behalf of the students 
and families of Smyrna. Her model leadership and dedication has touched 
so many lives in Smyrna and beyond. It is my privilege to offer my 
sincerest congratulations on a job well done and wish her many happy, 
healthy, and successful years to come.

                          ____________________



