

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 58 (Tuesday, April 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 58 (Tuesday, April 4, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2637]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 A TRIBUTE FOR ROBERT ``BOB'' RAWLINGS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Colorado (Mr. Tipton) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. TIPTON. Mr. Speaker, today I rise to honor the life of Robert 
``Bob'' Rawlings of Pueblo, Colorado. Bob passed away at the age of 92, 
on March 24, 2017.
  Born in 1924, Bob graduated from Bent High School in 1942. He 
immediately pursued a college education at Colorado College in Colorado 
Springs, but, ultimately, he decided to enlist in the Navy that same 
year.
  Bob received a commission from the University of Colorado Boulder in 
1943 and served honorably as the executive officer of subchaser 648 in 
the Pacific campaign of World War II. Bob was part of an effort to 
liberate over 100 British and Dutch prisoners of war during his time in 
service.
  After receiving an honorable discharge from the Navy in 1946, Bob 
returned to school at Colorado College and earned his bachelor's degree 
in economics in 1947. Bob took a job as a reporter at the Pueblo 
Chieftain, the place he would work for the next seven decades, 
ultimately climbing the ladder to serve as chairman and as editor of 
the paper.
  Bob always championed his hometown and used his career with the 
Chieftain as a platform to advocate his passion for Pueblo and for the 
surrounding region. A vocal supporter of protecting Pueblo's resources, 
Bob spent 70 years delivering news to the people of southern Colorado. 
His character and his life's work represent the very best of Pueblo and 
the entire State of Colorado.
  Mr. Speaker, Bob Rawlings served his community as a philanthropist, a 
journalist, a sailor, and as a family man. Although Bob referred to 
himself as the world's worst golfer, Bob will be remembered by so many 
in his hometown as one of its best citizens.
  While I am saddened by his death, I am honored to have known Bob. His 
presence will be missed by so many, but his impact in the community, 
however, will be remembered forever.

                          ____________________



