

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 54 (Tuesday, March 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 54 (Tuesday, March 28, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2044]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    MONTENEGRO'S ACCESSION INTO NATO

  Mr. KING. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize the Senate's 
historic vote to ratify Treaty 114-12, Protocol to the North Atlantic 
Treaty of 1949 on the Accession of Montenegro. This represents an 
important step forward in Montenegro's bid to join the North Atlantic 
Treaty Organization, NATO.
  Maine has strong ties to Montenegro through the National Guard's 
State Partnership Program, which pairs State National Guards with 
partner nations around the world. Both parties forge an enduring 
relationship over the years through training exercises, military-to-
military engagement, and security cooperation activities. These 
relationships are critical to our national security; they improve the 
capacity of friendly militaries, enhance our interoperability as 
allies, and allow us to promote our values in emerging nations. 
Furthermore, they provide members of the Guard with unique 
opportunities that make them more skilled military professionals and 
more experienced citizens.
  The Maine National Guard partnered with Montenegro in December 2006, 
just 6 months after Montenegro declared its independence. In the decade 
since, the Maine National Guard has advised and assisted Montenegro as 
the young nation has transformed its military, transitioning to an all-
volunteer force and contributing troops to the coalition fighting in 
Afghanistan. This relationship has expanded beyond the military 
dimension: the Maine Marine Patrol has trained with the Montenegrin 
marine police, and Mainers have worked with numerous Montenegrin 
governmental agencies to improve their disaster preparedness and 
response. Through numerous joint exercises each year in both Maine and 
Montenegro, Mainers have developed close, lasting relationships with 
their Montenegrin counterparts.
  Montenegro joined the State Partnership Program expressly as a means 
of achieving their desired accession to NATO. The Senate's ratification 
of Montenegro's membership bid reflects the hard work and enormous 
growth that Montenegro has achieved in the last 10 years. Mainers 
should be proud of the support and training that they have offered 
during this time. Maine stands beside Montenegro as it takes a major 
step toward NATO membership, pleased to continue our partnership in the 
future.

                          ____________________



