

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 18 (Thursday, February 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 18 (Thursday, February 2, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H887-H888]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               HONORING FORMER REPRESENTATIVE TOM BARLOW

  (Mr. COMER asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.)
  Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor the life and legacy of Thomas 
Jefferson Barlow, III--a former Member of this honorable body--who 
passed away on Tuesday, January 31, at the age of 76.
  Mr. Barlow, a Democrat, represented the citizens of Kentucky's First 
Congressional District from January 3, 1993, until January 3, 1995. Mr. 
Barlow was a tremendous public servant who had a positive impact on 
thousands of people. He was dedicated to making lives better, but he 
never sought fame or glory. He got satisfaction in having his voice 
heard and in influencing public policy.
  He was born in Washington, D.C., but his family roots ran deep in 
Ballard County, Kentucky, where his ancestor and namesake, Thomas 
Jefferson Barlow, was an original settler in the town of Barlow. He 
grew up in Chevy Chase, Maryland, and graduated from Sidwell Friends 
School in Washington, D.C.
  In his political career and private life, he worked tirelessly to 
help the

[[Page H888]]

less fortunate, to create jobs, to improve the environment, and to 
improve education. His professional career included work in State 
government and as a business executive.

  Although he lost his reelection bid in 1994, he was not discouraged 
and continued to make his voice heard by running for additional races 
for the House and the U.S. Senate. In fact, he used the same vehicle in 
all of his campaigns, and its odometer topped 400,000 miles when it 
finally wore out after 13 years. He was always outspoken and stood up 
for what he felt was right even if it was in opposition to his own 
political party's views.
  He lived with his wife of 28 years, Shirley Pippin Barlow, in 
Paducah, Kentucky, where he was a former director of the River City 
Mission, which helped homeless people get on their feet, and the Lone 
Oak Kiwanis Club. He was also an active member of the Grace United 
Methodist Church in La Center, Kentucky.
  I ask my colleagues to join me in sending condolences to the Barlow 
family.

                          ____________________



