

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 28 (Thursday, February 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 28 (Thursday, February 16, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1301-S1302]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    REMEMBERING ANNIE CARROLL WYCHE

 Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, when I am home in Anchorage this 
weekend, I plan to attend the grand opening of Roscoe's Food for the 
Soul Restaurant at the Aviator Hotel. Last December, the Alaska 
Dispatch News noted that the name Roscoe's has been synonymous in 
Anchorage with soul food for decades. The original Roscoe's was a 
father and son enterprise. Roscoe Wyche, Jr., opened the restaurant on 
Government Hill with his son Roscoe Wyche III in 1988. Roscoe's Food 
for the Soul continues the family tradition. It is a partnership of 
Roscoe Wyche III, now 56, and his son, Roscoe Wyche IV, who goes by the 
moniker ``Roc.'' Roscoe III told the Alaska Dispatch News that he was 
passing the torch just like his dad did--a very sweet story.
  But this weekend's opening will be a tad bittersweet. The matriarch 
of the

[[Page S1302]]

family, Annie Carroll Wyche, Roscoe's mother and Roc's grandmother, 
passed away on January 18, 2017. Ms. Carol, as she was known, was an 
entrepreneur in her own right. A native of Thomasville, GA, Ms. Carol 
came to Anchorage with her late husband, Roscoe Wyche, Jr., who served 
in the Air Force. Shortly after his retirement, they formed two beauty 
businesses. Top of the Hill Beauty Salon and Top of the Line Beauty 
Supply. That was Ms. Carol's domain. Ms. Carol was also a partner in 
her husband's restaurants. Ms. Carol is remembered for a beautiful 
spirit, which showed in her smile. She leaves behind a large family. 
There is no doubt that her entrepreneurial spirit lives on in Roscoe's 
Food for the Soul.

                          ____________________



