

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 16 (Tuesday, January 31, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 16 (Tuesday, January 31, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H802-H803]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 THANKING REPRESENTATIVE XAVIER BECERRA

  (Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 minute and to revise and extend 
her remarks.)
  Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico. Madam Speaker, I stand here 
today to recognize the extraordinary leadership of Xavier Becerra who 
for the last 24 years proudly served the people of Los Angeles, 
California, as a Member of the United States House of Representatives.
  Xavier's career in public service began as a call to fight for people 
like his parents, a clerical worker and a construction worker, who were 
often neglected in the policymaking process.
  He was elected to Congress in 1992. He most recently served as the 
first Hispanic member of the Committee on Ways and Means. During his 
tenure, he was also the chairman of the House Democratic Caucus and 
chairman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus.
  He worked with his colleagues to increase opportunities for working 
families, to improve Social Security, and to strengthen Medicare. He 
fought for a Tax Code that was fair to hardworking families and small 
businesses. He stood for immigrants of all communities in his support 
of the DREAM Act and comprehensive immigration reform.
  He continues this important work now as the attorney general of 
California, where he is already using his position, knowledge, and 
experience to uphold our values by rejecting policies that this 
administration hopes to exact on the American people.
  Representative Becerra, thank you and your family for your service. 
Your

[[Page H803]]

community, your colleagues, your country, and I thank you for your 
service.

                          ____________________



