

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 6 (Tuesday, January 10, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 6 (Tuesday, January 10, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S211-S220]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           TEXT OF AMENDMENTS

  SA 56. Mr. KING submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him 
to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PRESERVING AND EXTENDING MATERNAL, INFANT, AND 
                   CHILD HEALTH THROUGH THE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH 
                   AND HUMAN SERVICES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to preserving and extending maternal, infant, and 
     child health through the Department of Health and Human 
     Services by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2021 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 57. Mr. KING (for himself and Mr. Bennet) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. 
Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for the United States 
Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate 
budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered 
to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO THE 
                   NATIONAL HEALTH SERVICE CORPS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to maintaining, preserving, sustaining, and 
     expanding the National Health Service Corps program, which 
     may include increasing the number of clinicians fulfilling a 
     service obligation in exchange for scholarship or loan 
     repayment, by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2021 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 58. Mr. KING (for himself and Mr. Schatz) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. 
Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for the United States 
Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate 
budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered 
to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO COVERAGE 
                   OF CERTAIN FALL PREVENTION SERVICES UNDER THE 
                   MEDICARE PROGRAM.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to requiring coverage of certain fall prevention 
     services under the Medicare program by the amounts provided 
     in such legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 2021 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 59. Mr. KING submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him 
to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO MENTAL 
                   HEALTH AND SUBSTANCE USE DISORDER HEALTH CARE 
                   COVERAGE.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to the provision of health care for mental health 
     and substance use disorders by ensuring that such care is 
     included as essential health benefits and providing Federal 
     parity protections for mental health and substance use 
     disorders by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2021 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 60. Mr. KING submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him 
to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD 
                   REDUCE HEALTH INSURANCE ACCESS AND 
                   AFFORDABILITY FOR INDIVIDUALS BASED ON THEIR 
                   OCCUPATION.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     reduce health insurance access and affordability for 
     individuals based on their occupation, unless legislation is 
     enacted to provide comparable benefits and protections for 
     such individuals.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 61. Mr. CASEY (for himself, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Brown, and Mr. King) 
submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him to the concurrent 
resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD MAKE 
                   PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES AND CHRONIC CONDITIONS 
                   SICK AGAIN.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that 
     would--
       (1) limit, reduce, or eliminate access to care for anyone 
     with a pre-existing condition, such as a disability or 
     chronic condition, as provided under section 2704 of the 
     Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300gg-3), as amended by 
     the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Public Law 
     111-148);
       (2) place a lifetime or annual cap on health insurance 
     coverage for an individual with a disability or a chronic 
     condition, as provided under section 2711 of the Public 
     Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300gg-11), as amended by the 
     Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act; or
       (3) allow a health plan or a provider to discriminate on 
     the basis of an applicant's physical health, mental health, 
     or disability status to increase the cost of care, provide 
     for fewer benefits, or in any way decrease access to health 
     care as afforded under title I of the Patient Protection and 
     Affordable Care Act.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 62. Mr. MANCHIN (for himself and Mrs. Gillibrand) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him to the concurrent resolution 
S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST AN INCREASE IN THE DEFICIT.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill or joint resolution reported pursuant to 
     section 2001 or 2002, or an amendment to, motion on, 
     conference report on, or amendment between the Houses in 
     relation to such a bill or joint resolution, that would 
     increase the on-budget deficit or cause an on-budget deficit, 
     as calculated under subsection (b), in any of fiscal years 
     2017 through 2026.

[[Page S212]]

       (b) Determination of Budget Levels.--For purposes of this 
     section, the levels of new budget authority, outlays, and 
     revenues for a fiscal year shall be determined on the basis 
     of estimates made by the Chairman of the Committee on the 
     Budget of the Senate and shall be calculated without regard 
     to any adjustment made under section 3001 or 3002.
       (c) Form of the Point of Order.--A point of order under 
     subsection (a) may be raised by a Senator as provided in 
     section 313(e) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 
     U.S.C. 644(e)).
       (d) Supermajority Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be 
     waived or suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote 
     of three-fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An 
     affirmative vote of three-fifths of the Members of the 
     Senate, duly chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain 
     an appeal of the ruling of the Chair on a point of order 
     raised under subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 63. Mr. MANCHIN (for himself, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Markey, Mr. Durbin, 
Ms. Hassan, Mr. Brown, Mr. Udall, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. 
Leahy, Mr. King, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. Carper, Mrs. 
Feinstein, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. Donnelly, Mr. Kaine, Mr. Warner, Mr. 
Cardin, Mrs. Shaheen, and Mr. Van Hollen) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. 
Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for the United States 
Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate 
budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered 
to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD 
                   REDUCE ACCESS TO SUBSTANCE USE DISORDER 
                   PREVENTION, TREATMENT, AND RECOVERY SERVICES 
                   AND WORSEN THE OPIOID EPIDEMIC.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     reduce the expansion of access to substance use disorder 
     prevention, treatment, and recovery services established 
     through the expansion of the Medicaid program under section 
     XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.) and 
     the consumer protections in the health insurance market, 
     including protections for individuals with pre-existing 
     conditions, the establishment of mental health and substance 
     use disorder services as essential health benefits, the 
     requirement that preventive services such as substance use 
     disorder screenings be covered without cost-sharing at the 
     point of service, and the expansion of mental health parity 
     and addiction equity law to cover health plans in the 
     individual market, and in so doing, worsen the opioid 
     epidemic.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 64. Mr. MANCHIN (for himself, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Heinrich, Mr. Udall, 
Mr. Franken, Ms. Klobuchar, Ms. Heitkamp, Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. Casey, 
Mr. Tester, Mr. Bennet, Ms. Baldwin, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. Donnelly, Mrs. 
Shaheen, Mr. Warner, and Mr. King) submitted an amendment intended to 
be proposed by him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting 
forth the congressional budget for the United States Government for 
fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for 
fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; 
as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD 
                   FINANCIALLY HARM RURAL HOSPITALS AND HEALTH 
                   CARE PROVIDERS BY REDUCING THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE 
                   IN RURAL COMMUNITIES WITH ACCESS TO HEALTH 
                   INSURANCE.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report if the 
     Congressional Budget Office has determined that it would--
       (1) cause an increase in the rate of uninsured individuals 
     and families in rural communities by an amount sufficient to 
     substantially weaken the financial viability of rural 
     hospitals (including small hospitals), clinics (including 
     community health centers), or other health care providers; or
       (2) reduce Federal funds upon which rural hospitals and 
     community health centers rely.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 65. Mr. MANCHIN (for himself, Mr. Warner, Mr. Brown, Mr. Coons, 
Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. Kaine, and Mr. Casey) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. 
Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for the United States 
Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate 
budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered 
to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD 
                   REDUCE BLACK LUNG BENEFITS FOR MINERS DISABLED 
                   BY BLACK LUNG DISEASE AND THEIR SURVIVORS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     eliminate or weaken the amendments to the Black Lung Benefits 
     Act (30 U.S.C. 901 et seq.) made by section 1556 of the 
     Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Public Law 111-
     148), which--
       (1) require the presumption of total disability or death 
     caused by pneumoconiosis for coal miners who worked for at 
     least 15 years in underground mining and who suffer or 
     suffered from a totally disabling respiratory impairment; and
       (2) provide automatic entitlement for eligible survivors of 
     miners who were themselves entitled to receive benefits as a 
     result of a lifetime claim.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 66. Mr. REED (for himself, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Van Hollen, and Ms. 
Warren) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him to the 
concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional 
budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and 
setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 
through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST CUTTING LONG-TERM SERVICES 
                   AND SUPPORTS FOR SENIORS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     cut long term services and supports for seniors, including 
     nursing home care and home and community-based care, under 
     the Medicaid program under title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.).
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 67. Mr. CARDIN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD 
                   ELIMINATE OR REDUCE ACCESS TO PREVENTIVE 
                   SERVICES THAT ARE CURRENTLY OFFERED WITHOUT 
                   COPAYMENT OR COST-SHARING UNDER THE PATIENT 
                   PROTECTION AND AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     eliminate or reduce access to preventive services that are 
     currently offered without copayment or cost-sharing under the 
     Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Public Law 111-
     148), including blood pressure screening, colorectal 
     screening, breast cancer screening, cervical cancer 
     screening, and domestic and interpersonal violence screening 
     and counseling.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).

[[Page S213]]

  

                                 ______
                                 
  SA 68. Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr. Brown, and Mr. Carper) submitted 
an amendment intended to be proposed by him to the concurrent 
resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD 
                   ELIMINATE OR REDUCE THE CONSUMER PROTECTIONS 
                   PROVIDED BY THE PATIENT'S BILL OF RIGHTS UNDER 
                   THE PATIENT PROTECTION AND AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     eliminate or reduce the consumer protections provided by the 
     Patient's Bill of Rights under the Patient Protection and 
     Affordable Care Act (Public Law 111-148), including the ban 
     on health plans discriminating against adults and children 
     with pre-existing conditions, dropping coverage, limiting 
     coverage under a health plan, limiting choice of doctors, or 
     restricting emergency room care; the guarantee of an health 
     plan enrollee's right to appeal; coverage of young adults 
     under their parents' health plans; and coverage under a 
     health plan of preventive care with no cost.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 69. Mr. BENNET submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT REDUCES 
                   ACCESS TO, OR RESULTS IN THE CLOSING OF, RURAL 
                   HOSPITALS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that 
     reduces Medicare or private health insurance payments under 
     the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act to rural 
     hospitals that could lead to a reduction in health care 
     services provided or the closure of a rural or critical 
     access hospital.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 70. Mr. BENNET (for himself, Mr. King, and Mr. Carper) submitted 
an amendment intended to be proposed by him to the concurrent 
resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST PHYSICIAN AND NURSE 
                   SHORTAGES IN RURAL AND UNDERSERVED AREAS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that 
     reduces access to primary medical care, dental, and mental 
     health services in areas designated as Health Professional 
     Shortage Areas or Medically Underserved Areas or Populations, 
     including the repeal of provisions in the Patient Protection 
     and Affordable Care Act that--
       (1) expand the number of National Health Service Corps 
     providers trained to provide health care services in shortage 
     areas through the National Health Service Corps Loan 
     Repayment Program; or
       (2) encourage provider training specifically in rural 
     areas.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 71. Mr. BOOKER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the appropriate place, add the following:

     SEC. ___. SENSE OF THE SENATE THAT MEDICAID IS ONE OF OUR 
                   NATION'S MOST IMPORTANT POVERTY-REDUCING 
                   PROGRAMS.

       (a) Findings.--The Senate finds the following:
       (1) In 2015, more than 60,000,000 Americans relied on 
     Medicaid for comprehensive, affordable health care coverage.
       (2) According to the Journal of Health Economics, in 2010, 
     Medicaid helped to keep at least 2,600,000 Americans, 
     including adults with disabilities, the elderly, children, 
     and racial and ethnic minorities, out of poverty.
       (b) Sense of the Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate 
     that--
       (1) Medicaid is one of our Nation's most important poverty-
     reducing programs; and
       (2) the Medicaid expansion under the Affordable Care Act 
     has expanded coverage to millions of Americans, which not 
     only ensures that more people have access to quality, 
     affordable health care, but improves Americans' financial 
     security.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 72. Mr. BOOKER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD 
                   REDUCE COVERAGE FOR CHILDREN WITH AUTISM 
                   SPECTRUM DISORDERS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     reduce coverage for children with Autism Spectrum Disorders 
     by--
       (1) block granting or imposing per capita caps on State 
     Medicaid programs; and
       (2) repealing the financial assistance available to 
     families to purchase coverage on the health insurance 
     marketplace created under the Patient Protection and 
     Affordable Care Act (Public Law 111-148).
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 73. Mr. BOOKER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO ENSURING 
                   THAT STATE MEDICAID PROGRAMS' PAYMENT POLICIES 
                   ARE ALIGNED WITH THEIR PERIODICITY SCHEDULES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to ensuring that the payment policies of State 
     Medicaid programs are aligned with the periodicity schedules 
     of such programs by the amounts provided in such legislation 
     for such purpose, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2021 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 74. Mr. BOOKER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST REDUCING CHILDREN'S ACCESS 
                   TO THE EARLY AND PERIODIC SCREENING, 
                   DIAGNOSTIC, AND TREATMENT BENEFIT UNDER THE 
                   MEDICAID PROGRAM.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     reduce children's

[[Page S214]]

     access to the Early and Periodic Screening, Diagnostic, and 
     Treatment benefit under the Medicaid program by block 
     granting or imposing per capita caps on State Medicaid 
     programs.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 75. Mr. BOOKER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST DECREASING ACCESS TO HEALTH 
                   CARE BY IMPOSING UNREASONABLE WORK REQUIREMENTS 
                   ON MEDICAID BENEFICIARIES.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     decrease access to health care by imposing unreasonable work 
     requirements on Medicaid beneficiaries, especially those 
     beneficiaries struggling with mental health conditions, 
     substance abuse issues, and homelessness.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 76. Mr. BOOKER (for himself, Mr. Markey, and Mr. Van Hollen) 
submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him to the concurrent 
resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST HARMING HOSPITALS AND 
                   CLINICS BY REPEALING THE MEDICAID EXPANSION AND 
                   THE FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE OFFERED ON THE HEALTH 
                   INSURANCE MARKETPLACE.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     harm hospitals and clinics, particularly those in underserved 
     areas, by repealing or cutting Federal financial assistance 
     for the Medicaid expansion and for the financial assistance 
     offered on the health insurance marketplace.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 77. Mr. BOOKER (for himself, Mr. Markey, and Mr. Van Hollen) 
submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him to the concurrent 
resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST INCREASING PREMIUM COSTS ON 
                   THE HEALTH INSURANCE MARKETPLACE BY REPEALING 
                   THE MEDICAID EXPANSION UNDER THE AFFORDABLE 
                   CARE ACT.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     increase premium costs on the health insurance marketplace by 
     repealing the Medicaid expansion under the Affordable Care 
     Act which has lowered premiums costs on the health insurance 
     marketplace by 7 percent in States that have expanded 
     Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 78. Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Ms. Heitkamp, and Mr. Booker) 
submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him to the concurrent 
resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   INCREASING FUNDING FOR FEDERAL INVESTMENTS IN 
                   CHILD TRAUMA PREVENTION, SCREENING, AND SUPPORT 
                   SERVICES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to increasing funding for Federal investments in the 
     prevention, screening, and support (including treatment) for 
     children and youth who have experienced or are at risk of 
     experiencing trauma, which may include the early 
     identification, screening, and expeditious referral to 
     appropriate support services (including treatment) of 
     children and youth, or the implementation of trauma-informed 
     training, workforce capacity, and interventions by 
     appropriate providers and in settings that may come into 
     contact with children and youth who have experienced or are 
     at risk of experiencing trauma, by the amounts provided in 
     such legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 2021 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 79. Mr. DURBIN (for himself and Ms. Klobuchar) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him to the concurrent resolution 
S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   SUPPORTING STEADY, PREDICTABLE GROWTH FOR 
                   BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to supporting at least 5 percent real growth (above 
     inflation) to medical research conducted by each of the 
     National Institutes of Health, the Centers for Disease 
     Control and Prevention, the Defense Health Program, and the 
     Medical and Prosthetics Research Program of the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs by the amounts provided in such legislation 
     for those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2021 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 80. Mr. DURBIN (for himself and Ms. Klobuchar) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him to the concurrent resolution 
S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD 
                   RESULT IN A REDUCTION OF FUNDING FOR BIOMEDICAL 
                   RESEARCH AGENCIES.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     result in a reduction of funding for the National Institutes 
     of Health, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
     the Defense Health Program, or the Medical and Prosthetics 
     Research Program of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 81. Ms. BALDWIN (for herself, Mr. Van Hollen, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. 
Booker, Mr. King, Mr. Brown, Mr. Coons, and Mr. Franken) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by her to the concurrent resolution 
S.

[[Page S215]]

Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. DON'T MAKE YOUNG PEOPLE SICK AGAIN.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     make young people sick again.
       (b) Legislation That Makes Young People Sick Again.--For 
     the purposes of subsection (a), the term ``would make young 
     people sick again'' with respect to legislation refers to any 
     provision of a bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report, that 
     would--
       (1) reduce the number of young Americans enrolled in public 
     or private health insurance coverage, as determined based on 
     the March 2016 updated baseline budget projections by the 
     Congressional Budget Office;
       (2) weaken dependent coverage of children to continue until 
     the child turns 26 years of age as afforded to them under 
     Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Public Law 111-
     148);
       (3) weaken access to care by increasing premiums or total 
     out of pocket costs for young Americans with private 
     insurance.
       (c) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 82. Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself, Ms. Hirono, Mrs. Murray, Ms. 
Hassan, Mr. Blumenthal, Mrs. Shaheen, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Schumer, Ms. 
Stabenow, Mr. Brown, Mr. Carper, Mr. Udall, and Mr. Cardin) submitted 
an amendment intended to be proposed by her to the concurrent 
resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. DON'T MAKE WOMEN SICK AGAIN.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that makes 
     women sick again by eliminating or reducing access to women's 
     health care, including decreases in access to, or coverage 
     of, reproductive health care services including contraceptive 
     counseling, birth control, and maternity care, and primary 
     and preventive health care as afforded to them under the 
     Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Public Law 111-
     148).
       (b) Legislation That Makes Women Sick Again.--For the 
     purposes of subsection (a), the term ``makes women sick 
     again'' with respect to legislation refers to any provision 
     of a bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, amendment 
     between the Houses, or conference report, that would--
       (1) allow insurance companies to discriminate against women 
     by--
       (A) charging women higher premiums for health care based on 
     their gender;
       (B) allowing pregnancy to be used as a pre-existing 
     condition by which to deny women coverage;
       (C) permitting discrimination against providers who provide 
     reproductive health care benefits or services to women; or
       (D) otherwise discriminating against women based on their 
     gender;
       (2) reduce the number of women enrolled in health insurance 
     coverage, as certified by the Congressional Budget Office; or
       (3) eliminate, or reduce the scope or scale of, the 
     benefits women would have received pursuant to the 
     requirements under title I of the Patient Protection and 
     Affordable Care Act (Public Law 111-148) and the amendments 
     made to that title.
       (c) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 83. Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr. Durbin, Ms. Hassan, Mr. Leahy, 
Mr. Heinrich, Mr. Franken, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Reed, Mrs. Murray, Mr. 
Carper, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Booker, Mr. Brown, Ms. Cantwell, Mr. 
Cardin, Mr. Coons, Ms. Hirono, Mr. Markey, Mr. Murphy, Mrs. Shaheen, 
Mr. Udall, Mrs. Gillibrand, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Wyden, and Ms. Stabenow) 
submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him to the concurrent 
resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST ELIMINATING OR REDUCING 
                   FEDERAL FUNDING TO STATES UNDER THE MEDICAID 
                   EXPANSION.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     eliminate or reduce funding to States available under law in 
     effect on the date of the adoption of this section to provide 
     comprehensive, affordable health care to low-income Americans 
     by eliminating or reducing the availability of Federal 
     financial assistance to States available under section 
     1905(y)(1) or 1905(z)(2) of the Social Security Act (42 
     U.S.C. 1396d(y)(1), 1396d(z)(2)) or other means, unless the 
     Director of the Congressional Budget Office certifies that 
     the legislation would not--
       (1) increase the number of uninsured Americans;
       (2) decrease Medicaid enrollment in States that have opted 
     to expand eligibility for medical assistance under that 
     program for low-income, non-elderly individuals under the 
     eligibility option established by the Affordable Care Act 
     under section 1902(a)(10)(A)(i)(VIII) of the Social Security 
     Act (42 U.S.C. 1396a(a)(10)(A)(i)(VIII));
       (3) reduce the likelihood that any State that, as of the 
     date of the adoption of this section, has not opted to expand 
     Medicaid under the eligibility option established by the 
     Affordable Care Act under section 1902(a)(10)(A)(i)(VIII) of 
     the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396a(a)(10)(A)(i)(VIII)) 
     would opt to use that eligibility option to expand 
     eligibility for medical assistance under that program for 
     low-income, non-elderly individuals; and
       (4) increase the State share of Medicaid spending under 
     that eligibility option.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 84. Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr. Brown, Mr. Murphy, and Mr. King) 
submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him to the concurrent 
resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO REMOVING 
                   THE MEDICAID IMD EXCLUSION AND INCREASING 
                   FUNDING FOR FEDERAL INVESTMENTS IN MENTAL 
                   HEALTH AND SUBSTANCE USE DISORDER TREATMENT.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to increasing funding for Federal investments in 
     mental health and substance use disorder treatment, including 
     for the Medicaid expansion population, and which may include 
     allowing Federal funding for services provided under State 
     Medicaid plans to treat individuals with substance use 
     disorders in institutions for mental diseases, 
     notwithstanding the limitation of subdivision (B) following 
     paragraph (29) of section 1905(a) of the Social Security Act 
     (42 U.S.C. 1396d(a)), or supporting workforce and 
     infrastructure capacity to treat individuals suffering from 
     mental illness or substance use disorders, by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 
     2021 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 
     2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 85. Ms. HASSAN (for herself, Mr. Brown, Mrs. Shaheen, and Ms. 
Baldwin) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by her to the 
concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional 
budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and 
setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 
through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD 
                   WORSEN THE OPIOID EPIDEMIC BY REDUCING ACCESS 
                   TO MEDICATION ASSISTED TREATMENT FOR SUBSTANCE 
                   USE DISORDER.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill,

[[Page S216]]

     joint resolution, motion, amendment, amendment between the 
     Houses, or conference report that would reduce access to 
     medication assisted treatment for substance use disorders, 
     including opioid addiction, by making changes to the policies 
     enacted by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act 
     unless the Congressional Budget Office certifies that such 
     changes would not--
       (1) reduce or limit Federal funding for medical assistance 
     provided by States to low-income, non-elderly individuals 
     under the Medicaid eligibility option established by the 
     Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act under section 
     1902(a)(10)(A)(i)(VIII) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
     1396d(a)(10)(A)(i)(VIII)) or result in fewer individuals 
     receiving such assistance under such option (including the 
     1,600,000 Americans with substance use disorders who 
     currently receive such assistance and were uninsured prior to 
     the establishment of such option);
       (2) reduce the expansion of coverage resulting from the 
     individual market consumer protections of the Patient 
     Protection and Affordable Care Act, including protections for 
     individuals with pre-existing conditions, the establishment 
     of behavioral health as an essential health benefit, the 
     expansion of mental health parity and addiction equity law to 
     the individual market, and coverage of preventive services 
     without cost-sharing;
       (3) reduce the number of Americans enrolled in public or 
     private health insurance coverage, as determined based on the 
     March 2016 updated baseline budget projections by the 
     Congressional Budget Office;
       (4) increase health insurance premiums or out-of-pocket 
     costs for Americans with private health insurance coverage; 
     or
       (5) reduce the scope and scale of benefits covered by 
     private health insurance plans pursuant to the requirements 
     of title I of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act 
     and the amendments made by that title.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 86. Mr. BROWN (for himself, Mr. Reed, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. Carper, 
Mr. Udall, Mr. Casey, Mr. Booker, Mr. Whitehouse, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. 
Durbin, Ms. Baldwin, Ms. Warren, Mr. Cardin, Mr. King, and Mr. 
Blumenthal) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him to 
the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD 
                   UNDERMINE ACCESS TO COMPREHENSIVE, AFFORDABLE 
                   HEALTH COVERAGE FOR AMERICA'S CHILDREN.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that makes 
     changes to the Medicaid program under title XIX of the Social 
     Security Act (42 U.S.C. et seq.), the Children's Health 
     Insurance Program under title XXI (42 U.S.C. 1397aa et seq.), 
     or Federal requirements for private health insurance coverage 
     unless the Congressional Budget Office certifies that such 
     changes would not result in lower coverage rates, reduced 
     benefits, or decreased affordability for children receiving 
     coverage through the Medicaid Program, the Children's Health 
     Insurance Program, or the private insurance markets 
     established under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care 
     Act.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 87. Mr. WARNER (for himself, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. Kaine, Mr. Peters, 
Mr. Markey, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. King, Mr. Nelson, Ms. Warren, and Mr. 
Bennet) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him to the 
concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional 
budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and 
setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 
through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND TO INCREASE ACCESS TO 
                   HEALTH CARE FOR VETERANS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to increasing health care access for veterans, which 
     may include legislation that authorizes the Secretary of 
     Veterans Affairs to carry out certain major medical facility 
     leases of the Department of Veterans Affairs, by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 
     2021 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 
     2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 88. Mr. WARNER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION AFFECTING 
                   MEDICARE HOSPITAL INSURANCE SOLVENCY.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider a bill or joint resolution reported pursuant to 
     section 2001 or 2002, or an amendment to, motion on, 
     conference report on, or amendment between the Houses in 
     relation to such a bill or joint resolution that--
       (1) reduces the actuarial balance by at least 0.01 percent 
     of the present value of future taxable payroll of the Federal 
     Hospital Insurance Trust Fund established under section 
     1817(a) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395i(a)) for 
     the 75-year period utilized in the most recent annual report 
     of the Board of Trustees provided pursuant to section 
     1817(b)) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1395i(b)); or
       (2) would cause a decrease in Medicare Federal Hospital 
     Insurance surpluses or an increase in Medicare Federal 
     Hospital Insurance deficits relative to the levels set forth 
     in the applicable resolution for the first fiscal year or for 
     the total of that fiscal year and the ensuing fiscal years 
     for which allocations are provided under section 302(a) of 
     the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 633(a)) .
       (b) Medicare Levels.--For purposes of subsection (a)(2), 
     Medicare Federal Hospital Insurance surpluses equal the 
     excess of Federal Hospital Insurance income over Federal 
     Hospital Insurance outlays in a fiscal year or years with 
     such an excess and Federal Hospital Insurance deficits equal 
     the excess of Federal Hospital Insurance outlays over Federal 
     Hospital Insurance income in a fiscal year or years with such 
     an excess.
       (c) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 89. Mr. CARPER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD 
                   RESULT IN A REDUCTION OF THE COVERAGE OF 
                   OBESITY REDUCTION COUNSELING UNDER MEDICAID OR 
                   PRIVATE INSURANCE PLANS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     result in a reduction in the coverage of obesity reduction 
     counseling services under the Medicaid program or private 
     insurance plans.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 90. Mr. CARPER (for himself, Mr. Durbin, and Mr. Blumenthal) 
submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him to the concurrent 
resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD 
                   RESULT IN A REDUCTION IN TOBACCO CESSATION 
                   COVERAGE UNDER MEDICAID OR PRIVATE INSURANCE 
                   PLANS.

       (a) Findings.--The Senate finds the following:

[[Page S217]]

       (1) Tobacco use is the leading cause of preventable deaths 
     in the United States.
       (2) Each year, tobacco use leads to $170,000,000,000 in 
     healthcare spending on illness caused by tobacco use and 
     $150,000,000,000 in lost productivity.
       (3) Tobacco use is more than twice as common among the 
     overall Medicaid population (including individuals covered 
     under the Medicaid expansion added by the Affordable Care 
     Act) than among individuals with private insurance coverage.
       (4) The Affordable Care Act--
       (A) requires that State Medicaid plans cover tobacco 
     cessation services for pregnant women and individuals covered 
     under the Medicaid expansion with no cost-sharing;
       (B) requires that private health insurance plans cover 
     tobacco cessation products and services without cost-sharing; 
     and
       (C) prohibits the exclusion of tobacco cessation drugs from 
     coverage under Medicaid.
       (5) Expanded coverage for tobacco cessation leads to better 
     health outcomes and lower health costs.
       (b) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     result in a reduction in the coverage of items and services 
     related to the cessation of tobacco under the Medicaid 
     program or private insurance plans.
       (c) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (b) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (b).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 91. Ms. STABENOW submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
her to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST CHANGES TO THE ACA.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that make 
     changes to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act 
     without obtaining a budget score by the Congressional Budget 
     Office (based on annual projections, a 10-year projection, 
     and a 30-year projection) that includes the estimated effect 
     of the legislation on the number of uninsured individuals 
     (broken down by economic subgroup and State), the effect of 
     such legislation on average premiums (broken down by 
     marketplace and employer sponsored insurance), and the effect 
     of such legislation on uncompensated care costs (broken down 
     by State, projected for both providers and State government 
     spending).
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 92. Ms. STABENOW submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
her to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINTS OF ORDER AGAINST CERTAIN LEGISLATION 
                   RELATING TO MEDICARE.

       (a) Cost Estimate.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     make changes to the Medicare program under title XVIII of the 
     Social Security Act unless a cost estimate of the 
     Congressional Budget Office is made available to the Senate 
     prior to consideration of such legislation that includes the 
     estimated effect of such legislation on both current and 
     future Medicare beneficiary out-of-pocket expenses, including 
     premiums and cost-sharing, over the next 30 years.
       (b) Beneficiary Out-of-pocket Expenses.--It shall not be in 
     order in the Senate to consider any bill, joint resolution, 
     motion, amendment, amendment between the Houses, or 
     conference report that would increase Medicare beneficiary 
     out-of-pocket expenses under the Medicare program, including 
     premiums and cost-sharing, as determined by the Congressional 
     Budget Office in the cost estimate described in subsection 
     (a) with respect to such legislation.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 93. Ms. STABENOW (for herself, Mr. Carper, and Mrs. Gillibrand) 
submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by her to the concurrent 
resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD 
                   REDUCE AMERICANS' ACCESS TO HIGH QUALITY 
                   MATERNITY CARE COVERAGE.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that, 
     according to the Congressional Budget Office, would reduce 
     the number of Americans with insurance coverage of maternity 
     care and childbirth as afforded in the Patient Protection and 
     Affordable Care Act (Public Law 111-148).
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 94. Ms. STABENOW (for herself, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Murphy, Mr. Durbin, 
Ms. Cantwell, Mr. Franken, Mr. Carper, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Peters, Mr. 
Brown, and Mr. Udall) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
her to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST REDUCING OR ELIMINATING 
                   ACCESS TO MENTAL HEALTH CARE.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that the 
     Director of the Congressional Budget Office determines would 
     reduce access to mental health care and services or reduce 
     the number of individuals with mental illness enrolled in 
     insurance coverage, relative to the Congressional Budget 
     Office's March 2016 updated baseline, by means such as--
       (1) eliminating or reducing Federal financial assistance 
     currently available to States under section 1905(y)(1) or 
     1905(z)(2) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396d(y)(1), 
     1396d(z)(2)) or otherwise eliminating or reducing mental 
     health protections established by the Affordable Care Act, 
     including the addition of mental health services to the list 
     of services covered under section 1937(b)(5) of the Social 
     Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396u-7(b)(5)); or
       (2) reducing the affordability of coverage established by 
     the Affordable Care Act's consumer protections, including--
       (A) the expansion of mental health parity and addiction 
     equity law to individual health insurance coverage;
       (B) the prohibition on discriminating against enrollees 
     with pre-existing conditions such as mental illness;
       (C) coverage of preventive services like depression 
     screenings without cost-sharing; and
       (D) the establishment of mental health services as an 
     essential health benefit.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 95. Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Mr. Franken, and Mr. Brown) submitted 
an amendment intended to be proposed by him to the concurrent 
resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD 
                   PENALIZE STATES FOR IMPROVING CONTINUITY 
                   BETWEEN CRIMINAL JUSTICE AND PUBLIC HEALTH 
                   SYSTEMS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     penalize States for improving the continuity of care between 
     the criminal justice and public health systems, including by 
     ensuring that individuals who are enrolled in a State 
     Medicaid program under title XIX of the Social Security Act 
     (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.) have their enrollment in such 
     program suspended, but not terminated, in the event that they 
     are incarcerated, or by providing for the automatic

[[Page S218]]

     enrollment of eligible individuals in a State Medicaid 
     program upon their release from incarceration.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 96. Mr. MARKEY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD 
                   INCREASE THE MEDICARE PART B PREMIUM.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     increase the Medicare part B premium for Medicare 
     beneficiaries, as determined by the Congressional Budget 
     Office.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 97. Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself and Ms. Klobuchar) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him to the concurrent resolution 
S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO IMPROVING 
                   DRUG PRICING TRANSPARENCY FOR CONSUMERS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to improving drug pricing transparency for consumers 
     by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2017 through 2021 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 98. Mr. MURPHY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT FAILS TO 
                   ENSURE THE SAME PATIENT BILL OF RIGHTS THAT 
                   CONSUMERS HAVE TODAY.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     fail to ensure that consumers have the same patient bill of 
     rights as they have on the date of such consideration. Such 
     patient bill of rights includes the rights of consumers under 
     the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (111-148) to--
       (1) appeal health plan decisions;
       (2) maintain health coverage without fear of an arbitrary 
     rescission by their insurance company;
       (3) choose a doctor;
       (4) fair treatment of emergency care;
       (5) health insurance coverage without annual or lifetime 
     limits on essential health benefits; and
       (6) enhanced access to preventive services.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 99. Mr. MURPHY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT INCREASES 
                   UNCOMPENSATED CARE COSTS FOR HOSPITALS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     increase uncompensated care costs for hospitals.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 100. Ms. CANTWELL (for herself, Mr. Carper, Mr. Bennet, Mr. 
Whitehouse, Mrs. Shaheen, and Mr. Murphy) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by her to the concurrent resolution S. Con. 
Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for the United States 
Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate 
budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered 
to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST ANY CHANGES TO MEDICARE, 
                   MEDICAID, OR THE PREMIUM TAX CREDITS PROVIDED 
                   BY THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT THAT WOULD WEAKEN 
                   AND REDUCE INVESTMENTS IN HEALTH CARE DELIVERY 
                   SYSTEM REFORMS THAT IMPROVE PATIENT HEALTH AND 
                   REDUCE COSTS.

       (a) Findings.--The Senate finds the following:
       (1) The Affordable Care Act is moving the health care 
     system of the United States from a fee-for-service system 
     that frequently incentivizes the overutilization of health 
     care services and wasteful health care spending to a value- 
     and performance-based health care system that promotes 
     patient-centered and team-based care to keep Americans as 
     healthy as possible, improve health outcomes, and lower 
     health care costs.
       (2) Because of the investments in health care delivery 
     system reforms made by the Affordable Care Act, a third of 
     Medicare payments to health care providers are now based on 
     the overall quality of patient care and health outcomes 
     achieved by such providers.
       (b) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     change the Medicare program, the Medicaid program, or the 
     premium tax credits provided by the Affordable Care Act in a 
     manner that would result in hospitals, health care centers, 
     and physicians and other health care providers reducing their 
     investments in health care delivery system reforms that 
     improve patient health outcomes and reduce costs.
       (c) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (b) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (b).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 101. Mr. BENNET submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO ENSURING 
                   THAT THE TOP 15 PERCENT SICKEST MEDICARE 
                   BENEFICIARIES WITH CHRONIC CONDITIONS HAVE 
                   ACCESS TO MEDICARE ACCOUNTABLE CARE 
                   ORGANIZATIONS OR OTHER INNOVATIVE MEDICARE 
                   PILOT PROGRAMS, INCLUDING PATIENT-CENTERED 
                   MEDICAL HOMES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to ensuring that the top 15 percent sickest Medicare 
     beneficiaries with chronic conditions have access to Medicare 
     accountable care organizations or other innovative Medicare 
     pilot programs, including patient-centered medical homes, by 
     the amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2017 
     through

[[Page S219]]

     2021 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 
     2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 102. Mr. BENNET (for himself and Mr. Blumenthal) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him to the concurrent resolution 
S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT REDUCES 
                   PRICE TRANSPARENCY FOR CONSUMERS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that 
     removes price transparency of health care services or price 
     comparisons that enable consumers to have greater knowledge 
     in making health care decisions, including requirements set 
     forth by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act 
     (Public Law 111-148).
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 103. Mr. TESTER (for himself, Mr. Brown, and Mrs. Murray) 
submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him to the concurrent 
resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   AUTHORIZING CHILDREN ELIGIBLE FOR HEALTH CARE 
                   UNDER LAWS ADMINISTERED BY SECRETARY OF 
                   VETERANS AFFAIRS TO RETAIN SUCH ELIGIBILITY 
                   UNTIL AGE 26.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to supporting children who are eligible to receive 
     health care furnished under the laws administered by the 
     Secretary of Veterans Affairs, including by allowing such 
     children to retain such eligibility until age 26, by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2017 
     through 2021 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2017 
     through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 104. Mr. TESTER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD 
                   WEAKEN THE ABILITY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF 
                   VETERANS AFFAIRS TO DIRECTLY FURNISH HEALTH 
                   CARE TO VETERANS.

       It shall not be in order in the Senate to consider any 
     bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, amendment between 
     the Houses, or conference report that authorizes funding for 
     non-Department of Veterans Affairs-provided care, funded by 
     the Department of Veterans Affairs, which would reduce the 
     availability of services directly provided by the Department 
     of Veterans Affairs, including primary health care, mental 
     health care, rural health care, and prosthetic care.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 105. Mr. TESTER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD 
                   EXTEND THE CHOICE PROGRAM OF THE DEPARTMENT OF 
                   VETERANS AFFAIRS WITHOUT ADDRESSING PROBLEMS 
                   WITH THE THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATION OF THE 
                   PROGRAM.

       It shall not be in order in the Senate to consider any 
     bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, amendment between 
     the Houses, or conference report that extends the sunset date 
     of the Choice Program under section 101 of the Veterans, 
     Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 (Public Law 
     113-146; 38 U.S.C. 1701 note) unless the Secretary of 
     Veterans Affairs certifies that problems relating to the 
     third party administration of the program have been addressed 
     or the legislation extending the sunset includes provisions 
     addressing such problems.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 106. Mr. CORKER (for himself, Mr. Portman, Ms. Collins, Ms. 
Murkowski, and Mr. Cassidy) submitted an amendment intended to be 
proposed by him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting 
forth the congressional budget for the United States Government for 
fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for 
fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; 
as follows:

       On page 45, line 15, strike ``January 27'' and insert 
     ``March 3''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 107. Mr. HEINRICH submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
by him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT TAXES THE 
                   HEALTH BENEFITS OF HARD-WORKING AMERICANS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that 
     directly or indirectly taxes the health benefits of hard-
     working Americans.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 108. Mr. UDALL (for himself and Mr. Heinrich) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him to the concurrent resolution 
S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST CUTTING FEDERAL FUNDING TO 
                   MEDICAID EXPANSION STATES.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     reduce the Federal funding received by States for the 
     provision of medical assistance under State Medicaid programs 
     under title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et 
     seq.) to low-income, non-elderly individuals under the 
     eligibility option established by the Patient Protection and 
     Affordable Care Act under section 1902(a)(10)(A)(i)(VIII) of 
     the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396d(a)(10)(A)(i)(VIII)).
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 109. Mr. UDALL (for himself, Mr. Tester, Ms. Cantwell, Mr. 
Franken, Ms. Heitkamp, Mr. Heinrich, and Mr. Schatz) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him to the concurrent resolution 
S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST ELIMINATING OR REDUCING 
                   FEDERAL PAYMENTS RECEIVED BY AN INDIAN HEALTH 
                   PROGRAM OR BY AN URBAN INDIAN ORGANIZATION 
                   UNDER MEDICAID FOR SERVICES PROVIDED TO INDIANS 
                   AND ALASKAN NATIVES WHO ARE ELIGIBLE FOR 
                   BENEFITS UNDER THAT PROGRAM.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment,

[[Page S220]]

     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that the 
     Director of the Congressional Budget Office determines would 
     eliminate or reduce, relative to the Congressional Budget 
     Office's March 2016 updated baseline, Federal payments 
     received by an Indian health program or by an urban Indian 
     organization under title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 
     U.S.C. 1396 et seq.) for services provided to Indians and 
     Alaskan Natives who are eligible for benefits under such 
     title.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 110. Mr. HEINRICH (for himself, Mr. Bennet, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Udall, 
Mr. Tester, and Mr. Merkley) submitted an amendment intended to be 
proposed by him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting 
forth the congressional budget for the United States Government for 
fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for 
fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; 
as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST THE SALE OF FEDERAL LAND TO 
                   REDUCE THE FEDERAL DEFICIT.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     provide for the sale of any Federal land (other than as part 
     of a program that acquires land that is of comparable value 
     or contains exceptional resources or that is conducted under 
     the Federal Land Transaction Facilitation Act (43 U.S.C. 2301 
     et seq.)) that uses the proceeds of the sale to reduce the 
     Federal deficit.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).

                          ____________________



