

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 19 (Friday, February 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 19 (Friday, February 3, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H962]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     PAYING TRIBUTE TO GARY ANDRES

  (Mr. UPTON asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.)
  Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to a very good 
friend, certainly a trusted adviser and, by everyone's account, one of 
the very best staff directors ever on the Energy and Commerce 
Committee, Mr. Gary Andres.
  I first met Gary when he was a young staffer working in the White 
House for President Bush 41. Over the years, I became so close with 
both Gary and his wonderful wife, Sue.
  Gary came on board day one for my committee chairmanship, and we 
assembled an all-star staff of the most professional, talented, and 
kind people on Capitol Hill. In Gary, we got a trusted counselor with a 
strategic mind second to none. Gary also understands that sometimes you 
can't change the direction of the winds, but you can adjust your sails 
so that you are always going to reach that destination.
  Nowhere was this more important than during our herculean, bipartisan 
21st Century Cures Act effort. For more than 3 years, Gary was our 
five-star general; and thanks to his tireless leadership, we got the 
job done for patients and families across the country.

  What drove us more than anything else was that the clock was ticking 
for folks with terrible diseases, and we couldn't waste a day to get 
this bipartisan bill to the President for him to sign into law. It 
ended up being what many say was the most significant legislation 
enacted in the 114th Congress.
  But it went beyond the 21st Century Cures Act. There were 562 
hearings, 354 measures through the House, 200 signed into law in the 
last 6 years, substantial legislative wins. Whether it be the doc fix, 
saving Medicare, pipeline safety, health reforms, opioids, so many 
more, Gary was with us at the table.
  Gary understands how important this institution is. He has a 
reverence for the people's House. But Gary was also quick with a smile, 
a witty insight, or a laugh. He never lost his perspective, his temper, 
or eagerness to engage on an issue.
  I know I speak for all of the Members and staff on both sides of the 
aisle when we say: Thank you, Gary. We are going to miss you, but we 
know that we are going to continue to lean on you for advice no matter 
what the issue is.
  As Gary moves on to that next venture, I wish him the very best.
  To his wonderful wife, Sue, who is in the gallery today, it has been 
an honor to work with this distinguished gentleman.

                          ____________________



