

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 44 (Tuesday, March 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 44 (Tuesday, March 14, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1805]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      REMEMBERING PAUL IRON CLOUD

 Mr. ROUNDS. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize the 
achievements of Paul Iron Cloud of Pine Ridge, SD, who passed away on 
February 18, 2017, at the age of 76. Paul Iron Cloud was a tribal 
leader on the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation and tireless advocate for 
the indigenous peoples of South Dakota.
  In the 1980s, Paul established himself as an unwavering advocate for 
the Oglala Sioux Tribe, where he rose to the position of chairman and 
eventually president. During his time in leadership, Paul was a 
champion for housing on the Pine Ridge Reservation, a fight that would 
define his career.
  Over the course of his career, Paul served as executive director of 
the Oglala Sioux Housing Authority, as well as its successor, Oglala 
Sioux Housing. Nationally, he served on the National American Indian 
Housing Council and was elected chairman of the United Nations American 
Housing Association Board. In 2015, Paul received the George Nelson 
Outstanding Lifetime Service Award for his tireless efforts to improve 
the living conditions of the people of Pine Ridge.
  Thanks in large part to his unwavering commitment, Paul was able to 
make improvements to reservation housing programs. His fierce 
dedication to the people of Pine Ridge left a lasting impression upon 
his home, as well as the Native American community across the Nation. 
He will be forever remembered for his dedication to Native People both 
in South Dakota and across the United States.
  With this, I welcome the opportunity to recognize and commemorate the 
life of this great public servant, Paul Iron Cloud.

                          ____________________



