

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 25 (Monday, February 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 25 (Monday, February 13, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1127]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   TRIBUTE TO DR. JEFFERY P. HOLLAND

  Mr. COCHRAN. Mr. President, I wish to commend Dr. Jeffery P. Holland 
for 37 years of service to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
  Dr. Holland will soon retire as the Director of the Research and 
Development and Director of the Corps Engineer Research Center, ERDC, 
headquartered in Vicksburg, MS. He is capping his career with a highly 
successful management term leading one of the most diverse research 
organizations in the world--an organization that includes seven 
laboratories in four States with more than 2,000 employees, including 
more than 1,200 Federal engineers and scientists.
  As director of R&D and chief scientist for the Corps since 2010, Dr. 
Holland has effectively promoted its research missions, including 
warfighter support, military installations, the environment, water 
resources, and information technology. His work has enhanced our 
Nation's knowledge and sparked innovation related to military and 
civilian missions of the Department of Defense and other agencies.
  His leadership in research and development led to numerous 
achievements, among them increased soldier survivability and improved 
unit protection in combat zones. He distinguished himself within the 
Senior Executive Service with his work to establish excellence in human 
capital benchmarks, to develop an enterprise knowledge management and 
technology transfer plan for the Corps, and to develop a science and 
technology initiative to improve Defense Department acquisition.
  Over his long career, Dr. Holland earned a reputation as a strong 
leader and coalition builder, who empowered thousands of engineers and 
scientists to find new ways to solve problems. His career has resulted 
in significant and lasting contributions to the Department of the Army, 
the Department of Defense, the Vicksburg community, and the Nation.
  His distinguished tenure and outstanding accomplishments are in 
keeping with the highest standards of civilian service and reflect 
great credit upon him, the Department of the Army, and the Department 
of Defense.
  I am pleased to commend Dr. Holland for his many years of service and 
to wish him well in the years ahead.

                          ____________________



