

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 28 (Thursday, February 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 28 (Thursday, February 16, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1300]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              25TH ANNIVERSARY OF ALEXION PHARMACEUTICALS

 Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I am proud to recognize and 
celebrate the 25th anniversary of Alexion Pharmaceuticals, a company 
that has brought life-transforming therapies to patients around the 
world from its headquarters in New Haven, CT. Since its establishment 
by Leonard Bell in 1992, Alexion has become a global leader in 
discovering, developing, and delivering therapies for people with 
devastating and rare disorders. I have always been honored to call 
Alexion a Connecticut company, and I applaud the life-changing gains in 
medicine that it has made from the city of New Haven since 1992.
  Even while maintaining a commitment to developing new therapies that 
impact the lives of patients with rare disorders throughout the world, 
Alexion has always remained committed to its community in Connecticut. 
Whether it is helping connect individuals who are homeless with 
temporary work assignments in New Haven, partnering with scientists at 
the University of Connecticut, or subsidizing public transportation to 
help students get to their classes at Gateway Community College, 
Alexion has proven time and time again that its commitment to the 
people of Connecticut and to its over 1,000 employees in the State is 
as strong as ever.
  On its 25th anniversary, I applaud Alexion and the people who work so 
tirelessly for Alexion's values and commitment each and every day. 
Alexion continues changing lives through its medical breakthroughs, and 
I am so pleased to know that they call Connecticut home. Thank 
you.

                          ____________________



