

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 38 (Monday, March 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 38 (Monday, March 6, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1604-S1605]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 27

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 27, a bill to establish an 
independent commission to examine and report on the facts regarding the 
extent of Russian official and unofficial cyber operations and other 
attempts to interfere in the 2016 United States national election, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 59

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the names of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Roberts), the Senator from Louisiana (Mr. Kennedy) and the Senator 
from Montana (Mr. Daines) were added as cosponsors of S. 59, a bill to 
provide that silencers be treated the same as long guns.


                                 S. 198

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 198, a bill 
to require continued and enhanced annual reporting to Congress in the 
Annual Report on International Religious Freedom on anti-Semitic 
incidents in Europe, the safety and security of European Jewish 
communities, and the efforts of the United States to partner with 
European governments, the European Union, and civil society groups, to 
combat anti-Semitism, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 220

  At the request of Mr. Sasse, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 220, a bill to amend title 
18, United States Code, to prohibit a health care practitioner from 
failing to exercise the proper degree of care in the case of a child 
who survives an abortion or attempted abortion.


                                 S. 222

  At the request of Mr. Paul, the name of the Senator from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. Toomey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 222, a bill to repeal 
provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and 
provide private health insurance reform, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 242

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mr. Blunt) was added as a cosponsor of S. 242, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to permit veterans to grant access to their 
records in the databases of the Veterans Benefits Administration to 
certain designated congressional employees, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 297

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 297, a bill to increase 
competition in the pharmaceutical industry.


                                 S. 303

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Sanders) was added as a cosponsor of S. 303, a bill to discontinue 
a Federal program that authorizes State and local law enforcement 
officers to investigate, apprehend, and detain aliens in accordance 
with a written agreement with the Director of U.S. Immigration and 
Customs Enforcement and to clarify that immigration enforcement is 
solely a function of the Federal Government.


                                 S. 327

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue) was added as a cosponsor of S. 327, a bill to direct the 
Securities and Exchange Commission to provide a safe harbor related to 
certain investment fund research reports, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 339

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the names of the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein), the Senator from Massachusetts (Mr. 
Markey) and the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Menendez) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 339, a bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
repeal the requirement for reduction of survivor annuities under the 
Survivor Benefit Plan by veterans' dependency and indemnity 
compensation, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 352

  At the request of Mr. Corker, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Menendez) was added as a cosponsor of S. 352, a bill to award a 
Congressional Gold Medal to Master Sergeant Rodrick ``Roddie'' Edmonds 
in recognition of his heroic actions during World War II.


                                 S. 379

  At the request of Mr. Whitehouse, the names of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Tillis) and the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Menendez) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 379, a bill to amend title II of the 
Social Security Act to eliminate the five month waiting period for 
disability insurance benefits under such title for individuals with 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.


                                 S. 397

  At the request of Mr. Corker, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
397, a bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to ensure 
fairness in Medicare hospital payments by establishing a floor for the 
area wage index applied with respect to certain hospitals.


                                 S. 422

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from 
Illinois (Mr. Durbin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 422, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to clarify presumptions relating to 
the exposure of certain veterans who served in the vicinity of the 
Republic of Vietnam, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 444

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Warner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 444, a bill to amend the 
Investment Company Act of 1940 to expand the investor limitation for 
qualifying venture capital funds under an exemption from the definition 
of an investment company.


                                 S. 446

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Inhofe) was added as a cosponsor of S. 446, a bill to allow 
reciprocity for the carrying of certain concealed firearms.


                                 S. 462

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Warner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 462, a bill to require the 
Securities and Exchange Commission to refund or credit certain excess 
payments made to the Commission.


                                 S. 484

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto) was added as a cosponsor of S. 484, a bill to amend 
the Investment Company Act of 1940 to terminate an exemption for 
companies located in Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and any other 
possession of the United States.


                                 S. 497

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the names of the Senator from 
Washington (Mrs. Murray), the Senator from Montana (Mr. Tester) and the 
Senator from Florida (Mr. Nelson) were added as cosponsors of S. 497, a 
bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for 
Medicare coverage of certain lymphedema compression treatment items as 
items of durable medical equipment.


                                 S. 512

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 512, a bill to 
modernize the regulation of nuclear energy.

[[Page S1605]]

  



                                 S. 523

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 523, a bill 
to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to establish a stewardship 
fee on the production and importation of opioid pain relievers, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 526

  At the request of Mrs. Fischer, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 526, a bill to 
amend the Small Business Act to provide for expanded participation in 
the microloan program, and for other purposes.


                              S.J. RES. 26

  At the request of Mr. Sasse, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cornyn) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 26, a joint resolution 
providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, 
United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Department of 
Education relating to teacher preparation issues.


                              S.J. RES. 27

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the names of the Senator from Texas 
(Mr. Cornyn) and the Senator from Oklahoma (Mr. Inhofe) were added as 
cosponsors of S.J. Res. 27, a joint resolution disapproving the rule 
submitted by the Department of Labor relating to ``Clarification of 
Employer's Continuing Obligation to Make and Maintain an Accurate 
Record of Each Recordable Injury and Illness''.


                              S.J. RES. 29

  At the request of Mr. Daines, the names of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Enzi) and the Senator from Texas (Mr. Cornyn) were added as 
cosponsors of S.J. Res. 29, a joint resolution providing for 
congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States 
Code, of the final rule of the Office of Natural Resources Revenue of 
the Department of the Interior relating to consolidated Federal oil and 
gas and Federal and Indian coal valuation reform.


 =========================== NOTE =========================== 

  
  On page S1605, March 6, 2017, in the first column, the following 
appears: At the request of Mr. Daines, the name of the Senator 
from Texas (Mr. Cornyn) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 29 . 
. .
  
  The online Record has been corrected to read: At the request of 
Mr. Daines, the names of the Senator from Wyoming (Mr. Enzi) and 
the Senator from Texas (Mr. Cornyn) were added as cosponsors of 
S.J. Res. 29 . . .


 ========================= END NOTE ========================= 


                          ____________________



