

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 58 (Tuesday, April 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 58 (Tuesday, April 4, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2421]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




102ND ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF THE WYOMING STATE SOCIETY, DAUGHTERS OF THE 
                          AMERICAN REVOLUTION

  Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, I appreciate having this opportunity to 
recognize the 102nd annual conference of the Wyoming State Society, 
Daughters of the American Revolution. This year's conference is being 
held in Casper and once again promises to be an interesting, 
informative, and inspirational event.
  In the years since the National Society Daughters of the American 
Revolution was founded on October 11, 1890, the organization has kept 
its focus on the preservation and promotion of the ideals, principles, 
and values that are reflected in our Charters of Freedom--the 
Declaration of Independence, the Constitution and the Bill of Rights. 
They knew what a great gift we have been given with our citizenship in 
the United States of America and they wanted to show their great pride 
in those who had fought for our freedom as a nation and won it.
  With such a strong base on which to build, it is no wonder that the 
DAR continues to grow in size and influence. Year after year, more and 
more people are drawn to join the DAR and help to promote the 
principles and values of our Nation. That is why it is really no wonder 
that the DAR can now boast of over 185,000 members all over the world. 
In Wyoming, that enthusiasm shows itself as each chapter continues to 
encourage its members to be more active and involved in the day-to-day 
workings of our government on the local, State, and national levels.
  There is only one qualification for membership in the DAR. You must 
be able to trace your lineage back to the days of our fight for 
freedom, when a young nation took up arms to sever the ties between the 
United States and Great Britain. Some member of your family must have 
been a part of our American Revolution for you to be accepted into the 
DAR as a member. It is then up to you to continue the work that a 
member of your family began.
  That legacy has been handed down to the members of the DAR and to all 
of us as American citizens. It is also the legacy we will hand down to 
our children and grandchildren.
  We recognize the members of the DAR and the difference all of you are 
making as individuals and as members of an organization that has been 
keeping the ``Spirit of `76'' alive for generations now. The principles 
and values that are embodied in our Charters of Freedom have helped you 
to make a difference and that has helped to make our nation a better 
place for us all to live.
  Thank you for the good work you do.

                          ____________________



