

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 56 (Thursday, March 30, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 56 (Thursday, March 30, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2149-S2150]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        TRIBUTE TO JENNY GENGER

 Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this week, I have the distinct 
honor of recognizing Jenny Genger of Jefferson County for her selfless 
commitment to others in her local community. Jenny is a wonderful 
example of a local leader who is always willing to take on additional 
responsibility and devote her time and talent to others.
  Jenny graduated from the University of Montana with a degree in 
sociology. At her graduation in Missoula, one of the soldiers in the 
honor guard escorting the national flag caught her attention. With that 
chance encounter as the spark, the two were married about a year later. 
The young couple settled near Helena, in Montana City, where today they 
are raising their four children. In Helena, Jenny became very active in 
the Mothers of Preschoolers, also known as MOPS, by serving initially 
as the director of hospitality, and then after a period of rapid 
growth, she graciously took on additional duties as the president of a 
newly formed MOPS group. Jenny served in this capacity for nearly 8 
years.

[[Page S2150]]

  A few years ago, Jenny passed on her MOPS leadership baton and began 
serving as the chairperson for the education program in her church. As 
chairperson, Jenny spurred a program to have educational activities 
available during parent-teacher conferences in order to help parents 
attend the conferences. Jenny also volunteers each week at the local 
pregnancy resource center and coordinates the center's annual banquet. 
Not only does Jenny excel at serving her community, she has done so 
even while her husband, Noah, a Montana Army National Guard pilot, was 
gone for nearly a year conducting missions in southwest Asia.
  Montana is a State with many unsung heroes, and people like Jenny are 
the community glue that make Montana a great place to raise a family. 
For her efforts to serve, educate, and inspire those around her, 
Montana is sincerely thankful. Thank you, Jenny.

                          ____________________



