

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 1 (Tuesday, January 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 1 (Tuesday, January 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S18-S20]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




  MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE RECEIVED DURING ADJOURNMENT, 114TH CONGRESS


                         Enrolled Bills Signed

  Under the authority of the order of the Senate of January 6, 2015, 
the Secretary of the Senate, on December 13, 2016, during the 
adjournment of the Senate, received a message from the House of 
Representatives announcing that the Speaker pro tempore (Mr. Upton) had 
signed the following enrolled bills:

       S. 546. An act to establish the Railroad Emergency Services 
     Preparedness, Operational Needs, and Safety Evaluation 
     (RESPONSE) Subcommittee under the Federal Emergency 
     Management Agency's National Advisory Council to provide 
     recommendations on emergency responder training and resources 
     relating to hazardous materials incidents involving 
     railroads, and for other purposes.
       S. 612. An act to provide for improvements to the rivers 
     and harbors of the United States, to provide for the 
     conservation and development of water and related resources, 
     and for other purposes.
       S. 1635. An act to authorize the Department of State for 
     fiscal year 2016, and for other purposes.
       S. 2854. An act to reauthorize the Emmett Till Unsolved 
     Civil Rights Crime Act of 2007.
       S. 2943. An act to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
     2017 for military activities of the Department of Defense, 
     for military construction, and for defense activities of the 
     Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel 
     strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes.
       S. 2971. An act to authorize the National Urban Search and 
     Rescue Response System.
       H.R. 960. An act to designate the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs community-based outpatient clinic in Newark, Ohio, as 
     the Daniel L. Kinnard VA Clinic.
       H.R. 3218. An act to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 1221 State Street, Suite 12, 
     Santa Barbara, California, as the ``Special Warfare Operator 
     Master Chief Petty Officer (SEAL) Louis `Lou' J. Langlais 
     Post Office Building''.
       H.R. 4618. An act to designate the Federal building and 
     United States courthouse located at 121 Spring Street SE in 
     Gainesville, Georgia, as the ``Sidney Oslin Smith, Jr. 
     Federal Building and United States Courthouse''.
       H.R. 4887. An act to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 23323 Shelby Road in Shelby, 
     Indiana, as the ``Richard Allen Cable Post Office''.
       H.R. 5676. An act to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 6300 N. Northwest Highway in 
     Chicago, Illinois, as the ``Officer Joseph P. Cali Post 
     Office Building''.
       H.R. 5687. An act to eliminate or modify certain mandates 
     of the Government Accountability Office.

  Under the authority of the order of the Senate of January 6, 2015, 
the enrolled bills were signed on December 14, 2016, during the 
adjournment of the Senate, by the President pro tempore (Mr. Hatch).


                         Enrolled Bills Signed

  Under the authority of the order of the Senate of January 6, 2015, 
the Secretary of the Senate, on December 13, 2016, during the 
adjournment of the Senate, received a message from the House of 
Representatives announcing that the Speaker pro tempore (Mrs. Comstock) 
had signed the following enrolled bills:

       H.R. 875. An act to provide for alternative financing 
     arrangements for the provision of certain services and the 
     construction and maintenance of infrastructure at land border 
     ports of entry, and for other purposes.
       H.R. 4465. An act to decrease the deficit by consolidating 
     and selling Federal buildings and other civilian real 
     property, and for other purposes.
       H.R. 4680. An act to prepare the National Park Service for 
     its Centennial in 2016 and for a second century of promoting 
     and protecting the natural, historic, and cultural resources 
     of our National Parks for the enjoyment of present and future 
     generations, and for other purposes.
       H.R. 5065. An act to direct the Administrator of the 
     Transportation Security Administration to notify air carriers 
     and security screening personnel of the Transportation 
     Security Administration of such Administration's guidelines 
     regarding permitting baby formula, breast milk, purified 
     deionized water, and juice on airplanes, and for other 
     purposes.
       H.R. 5150. An act to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located

[[Page S19]]

     at 3031 Veterans Road West in Staten Island, New York, as the 
     ``Leonard Montalto Post Office Building''.
       H.R. 5309. An act to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 401 McElroy Drive in Oxford, 
     Mississippi, as the ``Army First Lieutenant Donald C. Carwile 
     Post Office Building''.
       H.R. 5356. An act to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 14231 TX-150 in Coldspring, 
     Texas as the ``E. Marie Youngblood Post Office''.
       H.R. 5591. An act to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 810 N US Highway 83 in 
     Zapata, Texas, as the ``Zapata Veterans Post Office''.
       H.R. 5798. An act to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 1101 Davis Street in 
     Evanston, Illinois, as the ``Abner J. Mikva Post Office 
     Building''.
       H.R. 5877. An act to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 and the United States-Israel Strategic Partnership Act 
     of 2014 to promote cooperative homeland security research and 
     antiterrorism programs relating to cybersecurity, and for 
     other purposes.
       H.R. 5889. An act to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 1 Chalan Kanoa VLG in 
     Saipan, Northern Mariana Islands, as the ``Segundo T. Sablan 
     and CNMI Fallen Military Heroes Post Office Building''.
       H.R. 6416. An act to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     make certain improvements in the laws administered by the 
     Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.
       H.R. 6450. An act to amend the Inspector General Act of 
     1978 to strengthen the independence of the Inspectors 
     General, and for other purposes.
       H.R. 6451. An act to improve the Government-wide management 
     of Federal property.
       H.R. 6452. An act to implement the Convention on the 
     Conservation and Management of High Seas Fisheries Resources 
     in the North Pacific Ocean, to implement the Convention on 
     the Conservation and Management of High Seas Fishery 
     Resources in the South Pacific Ocean, and for other purposes.

  Under the authority of the order of the Senate of January 6, 2015, 
the enrolled bills were signed on December 14, 2016, during the 
adjournment of the Senate, by the President pro tempore (Mr. Hatch).
  Under the authority of the order of the Senate of January 6, 2015, 
the Secretary of the Senate, on December 14, 2016, during the 
adjournment of the Senate, received a message from the House of 
Representatives announcing that the House had passed the following 
bill, without amendment:

       S. 8. An act to provide for the approval of the Agreement 
     for Cooperation Between the Government of the United States 
     of America and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway 
     Concerning Peaceful Uses of Nuclear Energy.

  The message further announced that the House agreed to the amendment 
of the Senate to the bill (H.R. 710) to require the Secretary of 
Homeland Security to prepare a comprehensive security assessment of the 
transportation security card program, and for other purposes.
  The message also announced that the House agreed to the amendment of 
the Senate to the bill (H.R. 1150) to amend the International Religious 
Freedom Act of 1998 to improve the ability of the United States to 
advance religious freedom globally through enhanced diplomacy, 
training, counterterrorism, and foreign assistance efforts, and through 
stronger and more flexible political responses to religious freedom 
violations and violent extremism worldwide, and for other purposes.
  The message further announced that the House agreed to the amendments 
of the Senate to the bill (H.R. 3842) to improve homeland security, 
including domestic preparedness and response to terrorism, by reforming 
Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers to provide training to first 
responders, and for other purposes.

  The message also announced that the House agreed to the amendment of 
the Senate to the bill (H.R. 4939) to increase engagement with the 
governments of the Caribbean region, the Caribbean diaspora community 
in the United States, and the private sector and civil society in both 
the United States and the Caribbean, and for other purposes.
  The message further announced that the House agreed to the amendments 
of the Senate to the bill (H.R. 6302) to provide an increase in premium 
pay for United States Secret Service agents performing protective 
services during 2016, and for other purposes.


                         Enrolled Bills Signed

  Under the authority of the order of the Senate of January 6, 2015, 
the Secretary of the Senate, on December 14, 2016, during the 
adjournment of the Senate, received a message from the House of 
Representatives announcing that the Speaker had signed the following 
enrolled bills:

       S. 8. An act to provide for the approval of the Agreement 
     for Cooperation Between the Government of the United States 
     of America and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway 
     Concerning Peaceful Uses of Nuclear Energy.
       H.R. 710. An act to require the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security to prepare a comprehensive security assessment of 
     the transportation security card program, and for other 
     purposes.
       H.R. 1150. An act to amend the International Religious 
     Freedom Act of 1998 to improve the ability of the United 
     States to advance religious freedom globally through enhanced 
     diplomacy, training, counterterrorism, and foreign assistance 
     efforts, and through stronger and more flexible political 
     responses to religious freedom violations and violent 
     extremism worldwide, and for other purposes.
       H.R. 2726. An act to require the Secretary of the Treasury 
     to mint commemorative coins in recognition of the 50th 
     anniversary of the first manned landing on the Moon.
       H.R. 3784. An act to amend the Securities Exchange Act of 
     1934 to establish an Office of the Advocate for Small 
     Business Capital Formation and a Small Business Capital 
     Formation Advisory Committee, and for other purposes.
       H.R. 3842. An act to improve homeland security, including 
     domestic preparedness and response to terrorism, by reforming 
     Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers to provide training 
     to first responders, and for other purposes.
       H.R. 4352. An act to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to carry out a pilot program establishing a patient 
     self-scheduling appointment system, and for other purposes.
       H.R. 4939. An act to increase engagement with the 
     governments of the Caribbean region, the Caribbean diaspora 
     community in the United States, and the private sector and 
     civil society in both the United States and the Caribbean, 
     and for other purposes.
       H.R. 5015. An act to restore amounts improperly withheld 
     for tax purposes from severance payments to individuals who 
     retired or separated from service in the Armed Forces for 
     combat-related injuries, and for other purposes.
       H.R. 5099. An act to establish a pilot program on 
     partnership agreements to construct new facilities for the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs.
       H.R. 5612. An act to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 2886 Sandy Plains Road in 
     Marietta, Georgia, as the ``Marine Lance Corporal Squire 
     `Skip' Wells Post Office Building''.
       H.R. 5790. An act to provide adequate protections for 
     whistleblowers at the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
       H.R. 5948. An act to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 830 Kuhn Drive in Chula 
     Vista, California, as the ``Jonathan `J.D.' De Guzman Post 
     Office Building''.
       H.R. 6130. An act to provide the victims of Holocaust-era 
     persecution and their heirs a fair opportunity to recover 
     works of art confiscated or misappropriated by the Nazis.
       H.R. 6138. An act to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 560 East Pleasant Valley 
     Road, Port Hueneme, California, as the U.S. Naval 
     Construction Battalion ``Seabees'' Fallen Heroes Post Office 
     Building.
       H.R. 6282. An act to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 2024 Jerome Avenue, in 
     Bronx, New York as the ``Dr. Roscoe C. Brown, Jr. Post Office 
     Building''.
       H.R. 6302. An act to provide an increase in premium pay for 
     protective services during 2016, and for other purposes.
       H.R. 6304. An act to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 501 North Main Street in 
     Florence, Arizona, as the ``Adolfo `Harpo' Celaya Post 
     Office''.
       H.R. 6323. An act to name the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs health care system in Long Beach, California, the 
     ``Tibor Rubin VA Medical Center''.
       H.R. 6400. An act to revise the boundaries of certain John 
     H. Chafee Coastal Barrier Resources System units in New 
     Jersey.
       H.R. 6431. An act to ensure United States jurisdiction over 
     offenses committed by United States personnel stationed in 
     Canada in furtherance of border security initiatives.
       H.R. 6477. An act to amend chapter 97 of title 28, United 
     States Code, to clarify exception to foreign sovereign 
     immunity set forth in section 1605(a)(3) of such title.

  Under the authority of the order of the Senate of January 6, 2015, 
the enrolled bills were signed on December 15, 2016, during the 
adjournment of the Senate, by the President pro tempore (Mr. Hatch).


                          Enrolled Bill Signed

  Under the authority of the order of the Senate of January 6, 2015, 
the Secretary of the Senate, on December 15, 2016, during the 
adjournment of the Senate, received a message from the House of 
Representatives announcing that the Speaker pro tempore (Mr. 
Thornberry) had signed the following enrolled bill:

       H.R. 6014. An act to allow the Administrator of the Federal 
     Aviation Administration to enter into reimbursable agreements 
     for certain airport projects.


[[Page S20]]


  Under the authority of the order of the Senate of January 6, 2015, 
the enrolled bill was signed on December 15, 2016, during the 
adjournment of the Senate, by the President pro tempore (Mr. Hatch).
  Under the authority of the order of the Senate of January 6, 2015, 
the Secretary of the Senate, on December 19, 2016, during the 
adjournment of the Senate, received a message from the House of 
Representatives announcing that the House had passed the following 
bill, without amendment:

       S. 3084. An act to invest in innovation through research 
     and development, and to improve the competitiveness of the 
     United States.

  The message further announced that pursuant to section 3(b) of the 
Public Safety Officer Medal of Valor Act of 2001 (42 U.S.C. 15202), the 
Minority Leader appointed the following member on the part of the House 
of Representatives to the Medal of Valor Review Board: Joanne Hayes-
White of San Francisco, California.
  The message also announced that pursuant to section 1238(b)(3) of the 
Floyd D. Spence National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001 
(22 U.S.C. 7002), as amended by division P of the Consolidated 
Appropriations Resolution, 2003 (22 U.S.C. 6901), the Minority Leader 
appointed the following individual on the part of the House of 
Representatives to the United States-China Economic and Security Review 
Commission, effective January 1, 2017, to fill an existing vacancy: Mr. 
Michael R. Wessel of Falls Church, Virginia.
  The message further announced that pursuant to section 1238(b)(3) of 
the Floyd D. Spence National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2001 (22 U.S.C. 7002), as amended by division P of the Consolidated 
Appropriations Resolution, 2003 (22 U.S.C. 6901), the Minority Leader 
appointed the following individual on the part of the House of 
Representatives to the United States-China Economic and Security Review 
Commission, effective January 21, 2017: Mr. Jonathan N. Stivers of 
Washington, DC.


                          Enrolled Bill Signed

  Under the authority of the order of the Senate of January 6, 2015, 
the Secretary of the Senate, on December 20, 2016, during the 
adjournment of the Senate, received a message from the House of 
Representatives announcing that the Speaker pro tempore (Mr. Messer) 
had signed the following enrolled bill:

       S. 3084. An act to invest in innovation through research 
     and development, and to improve the competitiveness of the 
     United States.

  Under the authority of the order of the Senate of January 6, 2015, 
the enrolled bill was signed on December 27, 2016, during the 
adjournment of the Senate, by the Acting President pro tempore (Mr. 
Sasse).

                          ____________________



