

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 15 (Monday, January 30, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 15 (Monday, January 30, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S488-S489]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE

  At 3:02 p.m., a message from the House of Representatives, delivered 
by Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks, announced that the House has 
passed the following bills, in which it requests the concurrence of the 
Senate:

       H.R. 7. An act to prohibit taxpayer funded abortions.
       H.R. 589. An act to establish Department of Energy policy 
     for science and energy research and development programs, and 
     reform National Laboratory management and technology transfer 
     programs, and for other purposes.
       H.R. 600. An act to promote Internet access in developing 
     countries and update foreign policy toward the Internet, and 
     for other purposes.
       H.R. 601. An act to enhance the transparency and accelerate 
     the impact of assistance provided under the Foreign 
     Assistance Act of 1961 to promote quality basic education in 
     developing countries, to better enable such countries to 
     achieve universal access to quality basic education and 
     improved learning outcomes, to eliminate duplication and 
     waste, and for other purposes.

  The message further announced that pursuant to sections 5580 and 5581 
of the revised statutes (20 U.S.C. 42-43), and the order of the House 
of January

[[Page S489]]

3, 2017, the Speaker appoints the following Members of the House of 
Representatives to the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution: 
Mr. Sam Johnson of Texas and Mr. Cole of Oklahoma.
  The message also announced that pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 3003, and the 
order of the House of January 3, 2017, the Speaker appoints the 
following Members of the House of Representatives to the Commission on 
Security and Cooperation in Europe: Mr. Smith of New Jersey, Co-
Chairman, Mr. Aderholt of Alabama, Mr. Burgess of Texas, Mr. Hultgren 
of Illinois, and Mr. Hudson of North Carolina.
  The message further announced that pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 2761, and 
the order of the House of January 3, 2017, the Speaker appoints the 
following Members of the House of Representatives to the British-
American Interparliamentary Group: Mr. Holding of North Carolina, 
Chairman, Mr. Hill of Arkansas, Mr. Latta of Ohio, Mr. Aderholt of 
Alabama, and Mr. Roe of Tennessee.
  The message also announced that pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 1928a, and the 
order of the House of January 3, 2017, the Speaker appoints the 
following Members of the House of Representatives to the United States 
Group of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly: Mr. Turner of Ohio, Chairman, 
Mr. Johnson of Ohio, Mr. Marino of Pennsylvania, Mr. Guthrie of 
Kentucky, Mr. Cook of California, Mr. Kinzinger of Illinois, and Mr. 
Shimkus of Illinois.

                          ____________________



