

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H57]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   HONORING THE LIFEOF CLYDE HOLLOWAY

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Louisiana (Mr. Abraham) for 5minutes.
  Mr. ABRAHAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of a true 
servant of thepeople. Many knew him as a former schoolbus driver, the 
chairman of the Louisiana Public Service Commission, or a 
successfulnursery owner in Forest Hill, Louisiana.
  Some of you here today knew him as former Congressman Clyde Holloway. 
Mr. Hollowaywas one of the first Republicans in Louisiana to be elected 
to Congress since Reconstruction. Serving from 1986 to 1993, 
Mr.Holloway was a trailblazer for other Republican lawmakers in our 
great State.
  On August 16, 2016, I, along with manyLouisianans, were saddened to 
hear of the news of Mr. Holloway's passing. Clyde left a legacy among 
his constituents of alwayslooking out and representing their best 
interests.
  I stand before you today to pay tribute to Mr. Holloway and the life 
helived. He fought the good fight. He finished his course. I urge you 
today to join me and my constituents in honoring the life ofClyde 
Holloway by charting our course to lead and represent the best 
interests of the people who entrusted their leadership tous today.


                    Honoring the Life of Bobby Smith

  Mr. ABRAHAM. Mr.Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to a man whose 
life was a living definition of courage.
  In 1986, working as a LouisianaState trooper, Bobby Smith, from 
Buckeye, Louisiana, was shot in the face and blinded in the line of 
duty. He not only lost hissight, but also lost the career that he 
deeply loved.
  Never one to succumb to adversity, Bobby earned a Ph.D., 
authoredbooks, and set out on a path of helping others. In 2001, he 
organized the Foundation for Officers Recovering from TraumaticEvents. 
This foundation helped provide training and counseling to law 
enforcement individuals, firefighters, emergency servicespersonnel, and 
their families going through tough times from various traumatic events.
  Bobby's will to help others wouldcarry him through his personal 
challenges as he traveled across the United States and throughout the 
world literally sharing hisstory and lifting up others. Before his 
death in October of this year, Mr. Smith had addressed and touched the 
lives of over 1million people.
  Many who knew Bobby would often hear him say, ``I see. I see.'' 
Today, as we remember Bobby Smith, let usnot be blinded by our own 
tragedies, adversities, and obstacles in our lives, but let us also 
have the courage that Bobby had tolook beyond and see the beauty of 
life and see the good in others.

                          ____________________



