

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 37 (Thursday, March 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 37 (Thursday, March 2, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H1467-H1468]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




         HONORING THE MEMORY OF ARMY SERGEANT ROBERT SHANE PUGH

  (Mr. KELLY of Mississippi asked and was given permission to address 
the House for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. KELLY of Mississippi. Mr. Speaker, I am humbled today to rise in 
memory of Army Sergeant Robert Shane Pugh. He made the ultimate 
sacrifice while defending our Nation on March 2, 2005, during Operation 
Iraqi Freedom III.
  He was assigned to the 1st Battalion, 155th Infantry Regiment, 
Mississippi Army National Guard, headquartered in McComb, Mississippi. 
Sergeant Pugh, a combat medic, was mortally wounded when an IED 
detonated near his vehicle near Iskandariya, Iraq, also wounding 
Sergeant First Class Ellis Martin.
  Sergeant Pugh posthumously received the Silver Star, the third 
highest award for valor, as well as the Bronze Star, Purple Heart, and 
Mississippi Medal of Valor.

[[Page H1468]]

  Sergeant Pugh's Silver Star citation reads: ``Although in extreme 
pain, Sergeant Pugh directed treatment instructions to the members of 
his platoon for both himself and Sergeant First Class Martin. Sergeant 
Pugh passed away en route to the hospital; however, his courage and 
disregard for his own welfare resulted in saving the life of a fellow 
comrade who was severely wounded.''
  Sergeant Pugh's mother, Ms. Wilma Allen, said her son was her pride 
and joy, that he was happy, outstanding, and outgoing. Ms. Wilma said 
Sergeant Pugh would do anything for anyone.
  In a fitting tribute to this brave and caring soldier, the National 
Guard Readiness Center in Morton, Mississippi, has been named in his 
honor
  Sergeant Pugh is survived by his parents, Glen and Wilma Pugh; his 
stepfather, Gary Allen; and his siblings, Tiffany Johnson, April 
Pearson, Jennifer Reed, Brad Allen, and Dale Allen.
  Stand fast, Mississippi. Stand fast, Sergeant Pugh. Stand fast.
  I have also honored fallen Mississippi soldiers Private Barry Wayne 
Mayo, Sergeant William Seth Ricketts, and Corporal Robert Taylor 
McDavid III this week.

                          ____________________



