

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 56 (Thursday, March 30, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 56 (Thursday, March 30, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2578]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1100
                       ADDRESSING CLIMATE CHANGE

  (Mr. SCHNEIDER asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. SCHNEIDER. Mr. Speaker, addressing climate change is one of the 
most important long-term challenges for our future. But this week's 
executive order from President Trump reverses recent progress and will 
worsen this slow-burning crisis.
  The order undercuts the Clean Power Plan, weakens restrictions on 
emissions, and expands Federal coal mining leases. It undermines the 
success of the Paris Agreement and damages our relations with the 
signatories, including China and India. At the same time, the order 
makes it harder for our government and military to plan for the already 
occurring consequences of climate change--including assessing its 
impact on national security policy.
  That is why today I am introducing the CLIMATE Act to prevent the 
irresponsible executive order from being implemented. Whether the Trump 
administration recognizes it or not, the international community 
understands climate change is real and is rapidly embracing a renewable 
energy future. The administration's decision to move our energy policy 
backwards only weakens the United States' global leadership role, 
making it more likely that green energy jobs of tomorrow will be 
created elsewhere.
  We must come together to support policies that grow clean energy jobs 
in the United States and ensure we pass on a healthier planet to the 
next generation.

                          ____________________



