

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 36 (Wednesday, March 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 36 (Wednesday, March 1, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1538-S1539]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]


                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                    REMEMBERING SHERIFF RALPH OGDEN

 Mr. FLAKE. Mr. President, with a heavy heart I wish to mark 
the passing of a pillar of the Arizona law enforcement community.
  When people think of the Old West, they often picture a Stetson-
wearing lawman sitting astride his horse, keeping watch over his 
community.
  For generations of residents in southwestern Arizona, that lawman was 
Yuma County Sheriff Ralph Ogden.
  With his towering frame and trademark mustache, Sheriff Ogden looked 
every bit the part.
  Despite his imposing physical presence, Sheriff Ogden was a kind, 
compassionate man, beloved by his deputies and celebrated by his 
community.
  After 4 years of distinguished service in the U.S. Marine Corps, 
Ralph Ogden began his 42-year law enforcement career as a dispatcher 
and jailer in Parker, AZ.
  A dedicated public servant, he would eventually serve as chief deputy 
for 12 years.
  Ralph would go on to be elected to five consecutive terms as sheriff, 
with

[[Page S1539]]

his 20-year tenure the longest in Yuma County history.
  Sheriff Ogden always understood the importance of getting to know the 
community he served and encouraged his employees to get involved in 
charities, religious groups, and service organizations.
  He valued teamwork and recognized that no one can succeed on their 
own.
  This philosophy of always having each other's back was something he 
carried with him throughout his time with the sheriff's office, and it 
was reflected in the way he treated those around him.
  Sheriff Ogden was known to write personal birthday and anniversary 
cards for each of his employees, just to show that he valued their 
service and friendship and that they were important to him.
  When asked about the benefits of serving in law enforcement, Sheriff 
Ogden said that, when you go home tired and beat after a long day, you 
sleep well knowing you did some good.
  Sheriff Ralph Ogden did a lot of good, and I know he is resting 
well.

                          ____________________



