

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 3 (Thursday, January 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 3 (Thursday, January 5, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H109]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      ENDING THE REGULATION NATION

  (Mr. EMMER asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.)
  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to talk about the problem of 
excessive government.
  The United States of America, the land of the free and the brave, a 
country created to provide everyone an equal opportunity to survive and 
thrive, has now become the regulation Nation.
  In my travels across the great State of Minnesota, I have met and 
talked with people from all walks of life: farmers and manufacturers, 
teachers and entrepreneurs, community bankers and credit unions, and 
they are all crying out for relief from the excessive, overly 
burdensome, and duplicative regulation that is stifling growth and 
stealing opportunity.
  For the past 8 years, opportunity in America has been under attack by 
regulations and unelected regulators from Washington. If every American 
is to have the opportunity to pursue the American Dream, this must end. 
That is why policy reforms such as the REINS Act are so important.
  Under this vital legislation, any major rules from a Federal agency 
will require congressional approval. This is a great step to end the 
regulation Nation. We in the people's House must continue to work 
together to make life easier for the American people, not more 
difficult.
  In the 115th Congress, we must--and we will--work with the incoming 
administration to roll back excessive and unnecessary regulation so 
that American families and businesses not only survive but can once 
again thrive.

                          ____________________



