

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 40 (Wednesday, March 8, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 40 (Wednesday, March 8, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H1603]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     DEFENSE SPENDING IS IMPORTANT

  (Ms. ROSEN asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.)
  Ms. ROSEN. Mr. Speaker, as a member of the House Committee on Armed 
Services, I rise to voice my full support for the fiscal year 2017 
Defense Appropriations bill. This legislation supports our Armed Forces 
by helping pay our troops and provide care for our men and women in 
uniform and their families, and it gives our military the resources 
necessary to combat terrorism, deter our adversaries, and support our 
allies.
  The Defense Appropriations bill includes a 2.1 percent pay raise for 
our servicemen and -women, which will help our military families like 
those who are currently struggling in Nevada to make ends meet.
  One of the most important investments proposed is increasing our 
military readiness, which helps strengthen our national security. The 
legislation fully funds troop number increases authorized and provides 
an additional $6.8 billion in procurement spending. This is especially 
important for helping modernize our Armed Forces by fulfilling unmet 
requirements for additional ships, weapons, and aircraft, such as the 
F-35 Joint Strike Fighters at Nellis Air Force Base and unmanned aerial 
vehicles flying counter-ISIL operations missions from Creech Air Force 
Base.
  Finally, the NDAA helps support programs that strengthen relations 
with our allies. I urge my colleagues to pass this important 
legislation.

                          ____________________



