

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 13 (Tuesday, January 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 13 (Tuesday, January 24, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H666]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                PRESIDENT TRUMP'S CONFLICTS OF INTEREST

  (Ms. KAPTUR asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.)
  Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to urge our new President to 
drain the swamp, to address his own myriad conflicts of interest. 
President Trump's financial disclosure stated he had a holding of at 
least $15,000 in Energy Transfer Partners, the lead developer on the 
Dakota Access Pipeline. We also know he has at least $100,000 invested 
in Phillips 66, which has a 25 percent stake in the same project. His 
spokesperson claims he has sold his stake, but how do we know? We still 
don't have his tax returns.
  Additionally, news stories indicate he has a holding in TransCanada, 
the developer of the Keystone XL pipeline. With the White House's 
action to push these pipelines forward, I fear that today we have the 
first of many indications of impropriety and conflict of interest. 
Without disclosure of his tax returns, Mr. Trump's personal financial 
interests are a riddle wrapped in a mystery inside an enigma. They 
appear to compromise honorable governance with insider deals.
  The President should know the American people are watching, and they 
do care. The peaceful protests he saw on Saturday are only the 
beginning if he cannot live up to the ethical requirements of his new 
office and the legitimate expectations of the American people.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Lewis of Minnesota). Members are 
reminded to refrain from engaging in personalities toward the 
President.

                          ____________________



