

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 41 (Thursday, March 9, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 41 (Thursday, March 9, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2004-H2005]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          HONORING ZELL MILLER

  (Mr. CARTER of Georgia asked and was given permission to address the 
House for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to wish the great 
Georgia Governor and U.S. Senator Zell Miller a happy 85th birthday. He 
celebrated his milestone on February 24, 2017.
  For his undergraduate education, Mr. Miller attended the University 
of Georgia as well as my alma mater, Young Harris College. He often 
compared Young Harris to a shoe factory because, as he says, you enter 
single but you leave as a pair. Fittingly, it is where Mr. Miller met 
his wife of more than 60 years, Shirley. Also fittingly, it is where I 
met my wife of 38 years, Amy.
  Mr. Miller has dedicated much of his life to serving the public, 
starting out as the mayor of his small hometown of Young Harris in 
north Georgia. This outstanding career led him through every level of 
service, including State senator, Lieutenant Governor, Governor, and 
United States Senator.
  Mr. Miller's dedication to his home State of Georgia and the United 
States as a whole continues to have lasting effects that are felt to 
this day. As Governor of Georgia one of Mr. Miller's greatest gifts was 
the HOPE Scholarship. This fund opens up educational

[[Page H2005]]

opportunities for thousands of Georgians every year by providing 
college tuition assistance to qualified students.
  Mr. Miller's legacy is well known in Georgia, but his accomplishments 
and charisma also earned him the respect of his colleagues across our 
Nation.
  Once again, I want to wish a happy 85th birthday to Zell Miller and 
thank him for his contributions to Georgia and the United States. We 
can all learn from the great example of his dedication to the public.

{time}  1930

                          ____________________



