

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 50 (Wednesday, March 22, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 50 (Wednesday, March 22, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2331]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]


CONTINUATION OF NATIONAL EMERGENCY WITH RESPECT TO SOUTH SUDAN--MESSAGE 
      FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 115-25)

  The SPEAKER pro tempore laid before the House the following message 
from the President of the United States; which was read and, together 
with the accompanying papers, referred to the Committee on Foreign 
Affairs and ordered to be printed:

To the Congress of the United States:
  Section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) 
provides for the automatic termination of a national emergency unless, 
within 90 days prior to the anniversary date of its declaration, the 
President publishes in the Federal Register and transmits to the 
Congress a notice stating that the emergency is to continue in effect 
beyond the anniversary date. In accordance with this provision, I have 
sent to the Federal Register for publication the enclosed notice 
stating that the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13664 
of April 3, 2014, with respect to South Sudan is to continue in effect 
beyond April 3, 2017.
  The situation in and in relation to South Sudan, which has been 
marked by activities that threaten the peace, security, or stability of 
South Sudan and the surrounding region, including widespread violence 
and atrocities, human rights abuses, recruitment and use of child 
soldiers, attacks on peacekeepers and humanitarian workers, and 
obstruction of humanitarian operations, continues to pose an unusual 
and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of 
the United States. For this reason, I have determined that it is 
necessary to continue the national emergency declared in Executive 
Order 13664 with respect to South Sudan.
                                                     Donald J. Trump.  
The White House, March 22, 2017.

                          ____________________



