

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 6 (Tuesday, January 10, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 6 (Tuesday, January 10, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H248]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  PAYING TRIBUTE TO JUDGE BRUCE MOSIER

  (Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute.)
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I sadly rise today to pay tribute to 
Judge Bruce Mosier, who lost his life yesterday; to his lovely and 
beautiful wife, Diane; beautiful daughter; and extended family.
  The whole of Harris County in Texas loved and respected Judge Bruce 
Mosier. Oh, he was a strong and vibrant Democrat, but he was a man 
that, whenever you called upon him, he would serve. He loved the law, 
practiced, and continued to represent individuals, many of whom could 
not help themselves. And, of course, he stood by his wife's side, 
championing every effort she made to empower people to vote. He was a 
stalwart in the last Presidential election. He continued to encourage 
and support all of us to do what is right and to ensure the rights of 
all people to vote.
  Judge Bruce Mosier served his neighborhood, served his county, served 
his State, and served this Nation. I will miss Judge Mosier. I will 
miss his friendly smile and his kindness, his willingness to help those 
who were just starting in their political or legal career, his 
willingness to lift up this country and to be the kind of American that 
always had an open mind to anyone, no matter how different they might 
be.
  So today, my dear friend, Judge Bruce Mosier, may you rest in peace.
  Diane, we will continue to love you and honor his legacy, work with 
you to continue his dreams and aspirations, and encourage those in this 
Nation, our county, and our State to be participatory participants in 
the wonderment of democracy in this Nation that is, that was, Judge 
Bruce Mosier.

                          ____________________



