

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 13 (Tuesday, January 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 13 (Tuesday, January 24, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S456]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. HOEVEN. Mr. President, I have ten requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to Rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


                      committee on armed services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on January 24, 2017, at 9:30 a.m.


            committee on banking, housing, and urban affairs

  The Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on January 24, 2017, at 10 a.m.


           committee on commerce, science, and transportation

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on January 24, 2017, at 10:15 
a.m., in room SR-253 of the Russell Senate Office Building.


                          committee on finance

  The Committee on Finance is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on January 24, 2017, in room SD-215 of the Dirksen Senate 
Office Building.


                     committee on foreign relations

  The committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on January 24, 2017, at 12 p.m.


        committee on homeland security and governmental affairs

  The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on January 24, 
2017, at 2:30 p.m.


                       committee on the judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on January 24, 2017, at 10 a.m. in room SD-226 of 
the Dirksen Senate Office Building.


            committee on small business and entrepreneurship

  The Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on January 24, 2017, at 10:30 
a.m. in room 428A of the Russell Senate Office Building to conduct a 
hearing entitled ``Nomination of Linda E. McMahon to be Administrator 
of the Small Business Administration.''


                     committee on veterans' affairs

  The Committee on Veterans' Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on January 24, 2017, at 3 p.m. in room SR-418 of 
the Russell Senate Office Building.


                    select committee on intelligence

  The Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on January 24, 2017, at 2:30 p.m. in room SH-219 
of the Senate Hart Office Building.

                          ____________________



