

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 36 (Wednesday, March 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 36 (Wednesday, March 1, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H1398-H1399]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     HAPPY 150TH BIRTHDAY, NEBRASKA

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Nebraska (Mr. Smith) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate my 
home State of Nebraska on 150 years of Statehood.
  On March 1, 1867, Nebraska became the 37th State admitted to the 
Union. Today, as we celebrate this milestone 150 years later, we honor 
the legacies of the pioneers who took great risks and overcame 
countless obstacles in pursuit of opportunity.
  Our State's pioneer heritage has always inspired me. I am proud to be 
a fifth-generation resident of Scotts Bluff County, Nebraska. My family 
was part of the Homestead Movement, settling in western Nebraska and 
working as sugar beet laborers to build a bright future for generations 
to come.
  The pioneer spirit is still alive and well today, which is one of the 
many reasons the ``Good Life'' is such a great place to live. 
Nebraskans' work ethic is second to none. From the producers who have 
made the Third District the top-producing agriculture district in the 
country, to the small businesses which employ nearly half of Nebraska's 
workforce, productivity is a hallmark of our State.
  In addition to our pioneer spirit, Nebraskans are known for their 
kindness. I am proud of our State's reputation as ``Nebraska Nice'' and 
enjoy introducing my colleagues in Washington, D.C., to Nebraska 
visitors any chance I get.
  From Huskers football to world-class research facilities, from Runza 
to

[[Page H1399]]

Dorothy Lynch, and from the Oregon Trail to the Homestead National 
Monument, there is an endless list of unique reasons for Nebraskans to 
be proud.
  I am honored to represent some 65,000 square miles of the Cornhusker 
State in Congress, and I will continue working every day to uphold our 
legacy of opportunity.
  In celebration of Nebraska's 150th birthday, it is only fitting to 
close in true Nebraska fashion: Go Big Red.

                          ____________________



