

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 58 (Tuesday, April 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 58 (Tuesday, April 4, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2220]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I have 9 requests for committees to 
meet during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of 
the Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to Rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


                      committee on armed services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, April 4, 2017, at 9:30 a.m., in open 
session, to receive testimony on United States Strategic Command 
Programs.


            committee on banking, housing, and urban affairs

  The Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, April 4, 2017 at 10 
a.m. to vote on the nomination of Mr. Jay Clayton.


               committee on energy and natural resources

  The Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate in order to hold a hearing on 
Tuesday, April 4, 2017, at 10 a.m. in Room 366 of the Dirksen Senate 
Office Building in Washington, DC.


                     committee on foreign relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, April 4, 2017 at 10:15 a.m., to hold 
a hearing entitled ``The European Union as a Partner Against Russian 
Aggression: Sanctions, Security, Democratic Institutions, and the Way 
Forward.''


          committee on health, education, labor, and pensions

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is authorized 
to meet, during the session of the Senate, to conduct a hearing 
entitled ``FDA User Fee Agreements: Improving Medical Product 
Regulation and Innovation for Patients, Part II'' on Tuesday, April 4, 
2017, at 10 a.m., in room 430 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building.


        Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs

  The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, April 
4, 2017, at 9:30 a.m. in order to conduct a hearing titled ``Fencing 
Along the Southwest Border.''


                    Select Committee on Intelligence

  The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet 
during the session of the 115th Congress of the U.S. Senate on Tuesday, 
April 4, 2017 from 2:15 p.m. in room SH-219 of the Senate Hart Office 
Building.


                     Subcommittee on Cybersecurity

  The Subcommittee on Cybersecurity of the Committee on Armed Services 
is authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, 
April 4, 2017, at 2:30 p.m.


      Subcommittee on Surface Transportation and Merchant Marine 
                  Infrastructure, Safety and Security

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to hold a meeting during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, April 4, 
2017, at 2:30 p.m. in room 253 of the Russell Senate Office Building.
  The Committee will hold Subcommittee Hearing on ``Keeping Goods a 
Moving: Continuing to Enhance Multimodal Freight Policy and 
Infrastructure.''

                          ____________________



