

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 45 (Wednesday, March 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 45 (Wednesday, March 15, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1810]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       REPUBLICAN HEALTHCARE BILL

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, one final matter: Last year, President 
Obama said his signature healthcare law had ``real problems.'' He 
recognized that there are ``people who are hurt by premium increases or 
a lack of competition and choice.'' President Clinton called it ``the 
craziest thing in the world.'' And the Democratic Governor of Minnesota 
said that ``the Affordable Care Act was no longer affordable for 
increasing numbers of people.'' So even Democrats recognize that the 
ObamaCare status quo is unacceptable.
  Costs have continued to climb higher. Insurers have dropped out of 
the marketplace. ObamaCare is a disaster, and it is going to keep 
getting worse unless we act. My home State of Kentucky, like so many 
others across the country, just can't take it anymore.
  Republicans promised the American people relief from ObamaCare, and 
we are working hard to keep that promise. The legislation the House 
introduced to repeal and replace is already moving through the 
committee process.
  Here are some things the Congressional Budget Office said about it: 
It will lower premiums by double digits. It will help stabilize the 
healthcare market. It will significantly reduce taxes on families and 
lower the deficit by hundreds of billions of dollars as well. These are 
the things we heard from CBO.
  Instead of forcing Americans to buy something they may not want as 
ObamaCare does, it will actually give Americans the freedom to choose 
the type of coverage that is right for them. I appreciate the hard work 
the House is doing to advance this legislation. We look forward to 
receiving it here in the Senate. When we do, I expect to consider 
amendments as part of our robust debate.
  But remember, this bill is only one part of a three-pronged strategy 
to help bring relief to the American people. The first prong is this 
bill, the second prong is executive action, and prong three is more 
legislation to reform the healthcare market and make it more 
competitive for consumers.
  The one thing we shouldn't do is nothing. ObamaCare is a failed law 
that is hurting the middle class. Maintaining the current ObamaCare 
status quo is really not a good option.
  We are fulfilling our promise to the American people, and I urge all 
of our colleagues to join us.

                          ____________________



