

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 56 (Thursday, March 30, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 56 (Thursday, March 30, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2156]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, I have 7 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to Rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


           Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry

  The Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on March 30, 2017, in the 
President's room, S-216 in the Capitol, in order to vote on the 
nomination of George ``Sonny'' Perdue, of Georgia, to be Secretary of 
Agriculture.


                      Committee on Armed Services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, March 30, 2017, at 9:30 a.m., in 
open session to consider the nomination of Honorable Heather A. Wilson 
to be Secretary of the Air Force.


               Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

  The Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, March 30, 2017, 
beginning at 9:30 a.m. in Room 366 of the Dirksen Senate Office 
Building in Washington, DC.


               Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

  The Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate in order to hold a hearing on 
Thursday, March 30, 2017, beginning at 2:30 p.m. in Room 366 of the 
Dirksen Senate Office Building in Washington, DC.


                    Committees on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, March 30, 2017 at 10 a.m., to hold a 
hearing entitled The Road Ahead: U.S. Interests, Values, and the 
American People.


          Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is authorized 
to meet in executive session during the session of the Senate on 
Thursday, March 30, in between votes in S-216, to consider the 
following: Nomination of Alexander Acosta to serve as Secretary of 
Labor.


                    Select Committee on Intelligence

  The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet 
during the session of the 115th Congress of the U.S. Senate on 
Thursday, March 30, 2017 from 10 a.m. for Panel I, and from 2 p.m. for 
Panel II, in room SD-106 of the Senate Dirksen Office Building to hold 
open hearings entitled Disinformation: A Primer in Russian Active 
Measures and Influence Campaigns.

                          ____________________



