

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 13 (Tuesday, January 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 13 (Tuesday, January 24, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S438]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      TRIBUTE TO BELLE WENDELBURG

 Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this week, I have the distinct 
honor of recognizing Mrs. Belle Wendelburg for her continued work in 
serving her community all the way to the age of 95. Belle retired from 
Dahl Memorial Nursing Home in Ekalaka, MT, in July of 2016 after 
working there for more than 20 years. She loved the residents and 
enjoyed the opportunity to work and serve others.
  Belle was born on May 3, 1921, on a family homestead near Westmore, 
MT. She was the youngest of three children. Growing up around Westmore, 
Belle attended Spring Hill Grade School where she had to ride a horse 7 
miles to get to school.
  Belle enrolled in the ``Green Thumb'' program, a government work 
program, and then began working in activities for Dahl Memorial Nursing 
Home. While her primary job was to work in activities, Belle wasn't 
afraid to work wherever she was needed. She helped make meals, set up 
for meals, wash dishes, read to residents, and work with Alzheimer's 
patients. She continued to work at the nursing home even after she was 
diagnosed with cancer. Her family reports that she is still as fit as 
ever and can probably outrun most people much younger than she.
  Belle also worked every Christmas at the home, ensuring the residents 
got the presents they were supposed to get and helping them write thank 
you letters for the gifts. She was involved with the spiritual health 
of the residents by reading devotionals to them. Belle worked at the 
home every Sunday when extra staff were needed to help residents attend 
chapel services. Through her giving spirit, she provides residents 
encouragement and inspiration every day. To her coworkers, she is also 
an inspiration. The nursing home CEO, Nadene Elmore says, ``Whenever I 
see Belle, I tell her I want to be just like her when I grow up.'' 
Belle entertains staff at lunches with stories and endless knowledge of 
the community's history.
  Throughout the past 20 years, Belle has remained faithful in her love 
for her home and the eastern Montana prairie. I want to express my deep 
gratitude to Mrs. Belle Wendelburg for her dedication and service to 
her community, Montana, and our country.

                          ____________________



