

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 49 (Tuesday, March 21, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 49 (Tuesday, March 21, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1888]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




      RECOGNIZING THE JEWISH COMMUNITY ALLIANCE OF SOUTHERN MAINE

 Mr. KING. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize the Jewish 
Community Alliance in Portland, Maine, for their longstanding service 
and commitment to Maine's Jewish community across southern Maine.
  In 1999, the Jewish Community Alliance of Southern Maine, JCA, was 
founded following a merger of the Jewish Community Center and the 
Jewish Federation. With a strong commitment to upholding Jewish values 
and culture, the JCA provides diverse programs for the entire 
community, educating children, teens, and adults to better connect with 
their community and learn from one another. The organization welcomes 
citizens of all backgrounds, encouraging a deeper understanding of 
Jewish history, practice, and culture.
  The JCA understands the importance of supporting and educating future 
generations through high-quality programming for children offered 
throughout the year. The JCA administers a nationally accredited 
preschool program, now in its 24th year, which provides children with 
the opportunity to grow and learn in a safe and positive environment 
driven by Jewish values. Additionally, each summer, the JCA welcomes 
children of all faiths to the Center Day Camp, along the shores of 
Sebago Lake in Cumberland County, ME. Heading into its 68th summer, the 
Center Day Camp encourages Maine's youth to explore new interests, 
build confidence and friendships, and develop new skills.
  The JCA also offers adult education classes to engage both Jewish and 
non-Jewish individuals, and to provide opportunities to learn about a 
wide range of topics relating to Judaism and Jewish life. One such 
program, NextDor, offers peer-led social, cultural, and educational 
engagement guided by Jewish values to adults in their twenties, 
thirties, and early forties. The program is dedicated to engaging 
members in a variety of settings that are accessible, inclusive, and 
uniting to help encourage Jewish and non-Jewish participation.
  I would like to recognize the positive impact that the JCA has had in 
the lives of Maine's citizens and its positive impact in strengthening 
the Jewish community. Their ongoing commitment to a better and more 
prosperous tomorrow is to be commended, and their message of 
inclusiveness and engagement is a model for the entire State. I look 
forward to the continued success of the Jewish Community Alliance of 
Southern Maine, and to watching their community grow and 
thrive.

                          ____________________



