

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 12 (Monday, January 23, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 12 (Monday, January 23, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S394-S395]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      TRIBUTE TO MILTON BRONSTEIN

 Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, Mr. Milton Bronstein, a 
lifelong public servant, labor leader, and great friend to me, today 
celebrates his 100th birthday.
  Milton served in many capacities during his more than three decades 
of service as an employee of the State of Rhode Island. In addition, he 
was an active workers' organizer, leading Rhode Island's AFSCME 
chapter, Council 94, as its first president and eventually becoming the 
retiree chapter's vice president until retiring just last year at age 
99.
  Those who have been fortunate enough to work alongside Milton during 
his State service or to benefit under his tenure at Council 94 describe 
him as a strong, dedicated leader and mentor. Current labor leaders say 
Milton's involvement helped strengthen

[[Page S395]]

the labor movement in Rhode Island. It is his selflessness and 
commitment to seeing working Rhode Islanders succeed that so many of us 
admire.
  Milton has been a tireless leader in the community. He has served on 
the board of directors of the Rhode Island Credit Union and the Touro 
Fraternal Association, the largest independent Jewish fraternal order 
in New England, for more than 50 years. He also was very active in the 
Rhode Island Democratic Party for just as long, working as president of 
the Association of Democratic City and Town Chairs. One of his proudest 
moments in politics was being a member of the 1992 Electoral College 
where he proudly cast his vote for President Bill Clinton and Vice 
President Al Gore.
  I know Milton's family means everything to him. His love for his late 
wife, Claire, and his devotion to his children, Harvey, Andrew, and 
Cindy, are obvious. He has carried on his devotion to family with his 
seven grandchildren and his two great-grandchildren, with one more on 
the way.
  Milton has been a close friend, supporter, and adviser to me 
throughout my political career. He is someone you can go to when you 
need help, and he is always there. He has helped so many people over 
the years, but you would be hard pressed to hear of him asking anything 
for himself.
  Milton, I am lucky to celebrate you today. You are a great Rhode 
Islander. Thank you for everything you have done for me and for your 
dedicated service to the people of our great Ocean State. As your 
friend and Senator, please accept my birthday wishes for a wonderful 
100th year.

                          ____________________



