

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 44 (Tuesday, March 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 44 (Tuesday, March 14, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1804-S1805]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                  TRIBUTE TO DEWEY AND VIRGINIA RIEHN

 Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, today I wish to honor two 
individuals from Missouri that have selflessly dedicated their lives to 
the military and public service. Dewey and Virginia Riehn have both 
held significant leadership roles within the veterans' community, and 
their decision to turn over that role to the next generation will be 
felt by the numerous lives they have impacted.
  Dewey Riehn is a retired chief warrant officer of the U.S. Army, 
originally from Jackson, MO. He married his beloved wife, Virginia, on 
August 24, 1958. Enlisting in the Marine Corps in 1956, Dewey 
transitioned to the Army, where he served as a counterintelligence 
agent, seeing multiple tours in Vietnam. He and Virginia were stationed 
overseas on multiple occasions. After retiring from the Army, he 
transitioned to the Missouri Department of Social Services, where he 
successfully completed a 24-year career as a child abuse investigator.
  From the time Dewey retired from military service, he and Virginia 
have both been pinnacle figures within the Veterans of Foreign Wars, 
American Legion, and Vietnam Veterans of America. Dewey has testified 
on numerous occasions before the Missouri Legislature, ultimately 
helping legislators shape State and national policy.
  Dewey was paramount in helping secure funding for the Veterans 
Commission's Capital Improvement Trust Fund

[[Page S1805]]

through gaming entrance fees. In addition, he was instrumental in the 
establishment of veterans treatment courts throughout Missouri. His 
extreme proficiency and vast dedication to veterans' issues resulted in 
his selection as the national legislative chairman for the Veterans of 
Foreign Wars.
  Mrs. Riehn has enjoyed a successful career as a nurse, while also 
maintaining strong roles within the veterans' community. She was 
previously the legislative chairman of VFW Post 280 Ladies Auxiliary. 
Dewey and Virginia have five children and currently live in Ashland, 
MO.
  As Dewey and Virginia relinquish their roles from the Veterans of 
Foreign Wars, I would like to pause and reflect on their lifelong 
commitments of profound service. I extend my heartfelt thanks to him 
and his wife and wish them the very best as they transition to a new 
chapter after decades of service to veterans and public 
service.

                          ____________________



