

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S223]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                               OBAMACARE

  Mr. McCONNELL.Madam President, when ObamaCare's supporters forced 
their partisan law on our country, they promised an easy-to-use 
system--onethat would lower premiums and out-of-pocket health care 
costs, one that would foster choice and allow families to keep the 
plansand doctors they liked.
  But it didn't take long for the American people to discover the truth 
about ObamaCare. Too many havebeen personally hurt by this law. Too 
many feel they are worse off than they were before ObamaCare. Listening 
to their storieshelps to explain why they might feel this way.
  For instance, too many Americans say their ObamaCare plans are too 
expensiveto actually use. Too many say their ObamaCare premiums have 
gone up and up, although their options have diminished. Too many 
saytheir choices on ObamaCare have deteriorated to just one or two 
insurers.
  These are some of the realities of ObamaCare fortoo many families in 
Kentucky and across the country. These are some inconvenient realities 
that those who continue to defendthis failed law must finally face up 
to. Remember, even former President Clinton called ObamaCare ``the 
craziest thing in theworld.'' This was Bill Clinton on ObamaCare.
  So it is little wonder that 8 in 10 favor changing ObamaCare 
significantly orreplacing it altogether. We must act quickly to bring 
relief to the American people. I hope Democrats will work with us as 
wetake the next steps toward repealing and replacing this failing law.
  Tonight, Senators from both parties will have animportant opportunity 
to take a vote on the legislative tools necessary to repeal ObamaCare. 
Then we can send it to the Houseand begin taking the next steps to 
finally move away from ObamaCare, while we move ahead with smarter 
health care policies. Thisis what the American people have called for 
us to do. It is the best way forward for our country and the people we 
represent.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistantlegislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I ask unanimousconsent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

                          ____________________



