

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S310]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          ADDITIONALSTATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                          TRIBUTE TO MACK COLE

 Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this week, I have the distinct 
honor of recognizing Mack Cole of Treasure County, a thirdgeneration 
Montanan and dedicated public servant. Next month, Mr. Cole will 
celebrate 55 years of marriage with his wife, Judy.Mack and Judy Cole 
were married in February 10, 1962, in the town of Hysham, one of the 
many beautiful small communities in thequiet and peaceful high plains 
of eastern Montana.
  After marriage, Mr. and Mrs. Cole spent 2 years in South 
America,providing much needed services while working for the Food for 
Peace Program in Brazil. Mr. Cole's experience in South Americawould 
serve as a trailhead for a lifelong journey of civic minded virtue and 
dedication on behalf of his fellow citizens.
  Inthe late 1970s, Mr. and Mrs. Cole moved down the road, west on I-90 
to Billings, MT, and they continued to build upon theirhonorable 
records of public service. During this chapter of his life, Mr. Cole 
worked for the Bureau of Indian Affairs inmultiple western States and 
was involved in a wide variety of programs, including the development 
of irrigation projects. Hiswork with the Bureau of Indian Affairs took 
him to Wyoming, Arizona, Utah, and Nevada. After retiring from the 
Bureau of IndianAffairs in 1993, the Coles moved back to the family 
ranch outside of Hysham.
  Mr. Cole continued his distinguished record ofpublic service by 
representing the people of Treasure County in the Montana Legislature, 
retiring from the State senate in 2003.During his time in legislature 
and even after retirement from public life, Mr. Cole has always been a 
steadfast supporter ofresponsible energy development, a critical 
component for the livelihood of many of his friends and neighbors.
  His humbleefforts to help provide food to the hungry, keep water 
flowing to farms and ranches ensuring energy was always ready at the 
flipof a switch make him a great Montanan. It is hard to find a better 
example of a fellow Montanan that is always ready to offer ahelping 
hand.
  I want to express my deep gratitude to Mr. Cole for his dedication 
and service to Montana and our country.

                          ____________________



