

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 35 (Tuesday, February 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 35 (Tuesday, February 28, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H1362]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




        WELCOMING BRUCE BAILLIE TO THE JOINT SESSION OF CONGRESS

  (Mr. KILMER asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.)
  Mr. KILMER. Mr. Speaker, when you come in to Bremerton, Washington, 
on the ferry, you see one of my favorite sights. It is Building 460 of 
the Puget Sound Naval Shipyard, and it says on the side of the 
building: ``Puget Sound Naval Shipyard Building on a Proud Tradition.'' 
Puget Sound Naval Shipyard is far and away the largest employer in the 
region I represent, and these are men and women who take great pride in 
their work and have done so for over 125 years.
  They are also critical to the success of our Navy's national security 
mission, but too often in this town, they don't get the respect they 
deserve. That is why my guest this evening is Bruce Baillie with the 
Bremerton Building and Metal Trades Council. Bruce is a local leader 
for our shipyard workers, and I want to make sure that this new 
administration understands how important this workforce is to our 
country.
  These are not just talented professionals. They have been amazing 
partners in putting together an action agenda for shipyard workers that 
we introduced last week: exempting our shipyard workers from the hiring 
freeze which is critical to our Nation's security, making sure that 
retired servicemembers--our veterans--are able to secure jobs in our 
Defense Department, and halting policies that lower the compensation of 
defense workers--changes in per diem and overtime policies that affect 
their take-home pay.
  It is important that we have the backs of these vital workers, and 
that is why I have invited Bruce Baillie as my guest this evening.

                          ____________________



