

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 39 (Tuesday, March 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 39 (Tuesday, March 7, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H1577]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





                              {time}  1945
                  REMEMBERING DOUGLAS SELPH HENRY, JR.

  (Mr. COHEN asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. COHEN. Mr. Speaker, earlier this week, Tennessee lost one of its 
most outstanding citizens, a person who loved Tennessee as deeply, if 
not more deeply, than anyone. Douglas Selph Henry, Jr., who served in 
the Tennessee State Senate in the Tennessee State House, served longer 
than any person ever did in the Tennessee General Assembly--44 years.
  Senator Douglas Henry served 24 of those years with me. He was a 
gentleman, a scholar, a man who said he was a State man, as 
distinguished from a Federal man, and he was a public man, going to 
more events in Nashville in his district and for his community than 
anybody ever has. There was not an event that Douglas Henry wasn't 
there and helping to fund.
  He was a conservative Senator. We had differences on issues many 
times. But Senator Henry was a man who you could disagree with, and he 
was never disagreeable. He was truly a gentleman at all times and a 
credit to his State and a credit to politics and a credit to his 
family.
  He loved his wife, Lolly, who predeceased him, his five children, and 
his grandchildren. And though we differed on issues and he was pro-
life, he cared about children after they were born, passed the 
mandatory child seatbelt law, and supported all types of education 
endeavors and endeavors to support mothers and young children. He was 
just a gentleman's gentleman. I was honored to spend time with him. It 
is a great loss to Tennessee. My thoughts go out to his family.

                          ____________________



