

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 23 (Thursday, February 9, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 23 (Thursday, February 9, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1069]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                        TRIBUTE TO JESS LOCKWOOD

 Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this week, I have the distinct 
honor of recognizing Jess Lockwood, a tough-as-nails cowboy from 
Volberg, MT. Earlier this week, Jess moved into the top spot of the 
professional bullriders world rankings. In the early stages of this 
bullriding season, Jess has shared his talent with rodeo fans across 
the Nation. From Sacramento to New York City, Jess has tackled the 
challenge of competing at the highest level and made Big Sky Country 
proud while doing it. Bullriding is a young person's sport, and that 
maxim is brought to life by this 19-year-old cowboy from the rolling 
hills of southeastern Montana.
  When asked about his success in the sport, Jess replied with graceful 
Montana simplicity: ``I just have to keep staying on my bulls and doing 
my job.'' In the world of bullriding and in life itself, Jess 
Lockwood's Montana wisdom rings true. Jess focuses on what needs to be 
accomplished and gets the job done. And he didn't arrive at his level 
of success by circumstance, coincidence, good fortune, or luck. His 
accomplishments are the fruit of efforts sown many years in advance and 
watered by a steady stream of hard work. In high school, these 
successful habits led Jess to three Montana High School rodeo State 
championships.
  Back home in Montana, we all hope that his string of success 
continues, and are confident he has what it takes to maintain his 
performance. Jess has confidence in his ability, too, and you need 
confidence if you are going to ride a nearly 2,000-pound bull. His 
clarity of purpose to rise to the top in his chosen field should be 
refreshing and rejuvenating to us all. Reflecting on his 
accomplishments, Jess expressed his approach this way, ``You just have 
to show up each weekend and expect yourself to win,'' and added ``If 
you are showing up each weekend, if you are not planning on winning, 
what is the point really?'' Prepare, show up, and do your best: that 
sounds like a Montana recipe for success.

                          ____________________



