

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 58 (Wednesday, April 11, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 58 (Wednesday, April 11, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2069-S2070]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     REMEMBERING HARRY SHIPLEY, JR.

 Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, today I wish to pay tribute to the 
life of Harry Shipley, Jr., from my hometown of Fort Smith, AR. Mr. 
Shipley was a husband, father, veteran, businessman, and community 
leader. He passed away on March 24, 2018, at the age of 96.
  Born in 1922 during the Great Depression, Shipley graduated from Fort

[[Page S2070]]

Smith High School, where he was student body president. He attended the 
University of Arkansas and served as student commander of the Army ROTC 
while earning a degree in business.
  A member of the Greatest Generation, he was a second lieutenant in 
reconnaissance and intelligence in the U.S. Army during World War II. 
He served in the European Theater and was injured in the Battle of 
Siegfried Line. Shipley received the Bronze Star and Purple Heart for 
his service to his country.
  After the war, he graduated from the American Institute of Baking in 
Chicago, IL, and joined his father at the Shipley Baking Company. He 
worked there for 54 years, from 1945 to 1996, along with his brother 
and sons. He retired in 1996 as chairman of the board after the company 
was sold to Flower Foods.
  Mr. Shipley was also a man of faith and someone who was involved in 
his community in a variety of ways. He was a lifetime member of First 
United Methodist Church and served as an usher and on several 
committees within the congregation.
  I join with many in the Fort Smith community to honor Harry Shipley, 
Jr., and the wonderful legacy he leaves behind. My thoughts and prayers 
are with his loved ones as they mourn his passing and celebrate his 
life.

                          ____________________



