

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 34 (Monday, February 26, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 34 (Monday, February 26, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1218]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              125TH ANNIVERSARY OF READING TERMINAL MARKET

 Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I wish to recognize and honor 
Reading Terminal Market as it celebrates the 125th anniversary of its 
founding in Pennsylvania.
  Reading Terminal Market officially opened on February 22, 1893, under 
the Reading Railroad Company and is one of the Nation's oldest farmers' 
markets. The market was a result of the city's consolidation of public 
markets in the early 19th century due to the mass number of merchants 
and health hazards that became associated with merchant stalls.
  Reading Terminal Market opened with approximately 78,000 square feet, 
including 800 spaces for merchants to sell their goods. The market was 
prosperous during the Great Depression and World War II due to local 
farmers coming to the city because of high demand and fair prices. 
Individuals living in the suburbs could have their groceries delivered 
for free through the use of the train station. Employees at the Reading 
Terminal would load carts of groceries onto trains and deliver them to 
each station as the customer requested. Much of Reading Terminal 
Market's customer base and services relied on the Reading Railroad 
Company.
  When the railroad company failed, the market suffered and experienced 
financial hardship from the 1960s to the early 1990s. A $30 million 
investment in infrastructure resuscitated the market, and it has 
thrived as an economic hub ever since.
  Today, Reading Terminal Market, housed in a National Historic 
Landmark building, is home to 80 merchants of all different cultural 
backgrounds with products ranging from fresh, locally sourced produce, 
meats, handmade wares, and clothing, to a broad range of ethnic food 
and global goods. With an estimated 100,000 people experiencing the 
market on a weekly basis, Reading Terminal Market is one of the most 
prosperous, public markets in both the Commonwealth and in the Nation.
  I commend Reading Terminal Market, its employees, and its merchants 
on the 125th anniversary of its founding. As the market has reached 
global recognition, I am honored it calls Pennsylvania home. Rich in 
both diversity and tradition, let it serve as a symbol of culture, 
history, opportunity, and inspiration for us all.

                          ____________________



