

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 45 (Wednesday, March 14, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 45 (Wednesday, March 14, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1552-H1553]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  WELCOMING PASTOR RODNEY DAVID CANNON

  The SPEAKER. Without objection, the gentleman from Florida (Mr. Soto) 
is recognized for 1 minute.

[[Page H1553]]

  There was no objection.
  Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, I would like to welcome Rodney David Cannon as 
our congressional guest chaplain today, not only one of our prominent 
pastors in the district, but also our mayor in Frostproof, Florida.
  Born in Kansas, raised in Fort Meade, and having lived all over Polk 
County, Rodney settled down in his new hometown of Frostproof, where he 
lives with his wife, Lindsey, and their children.
  As a child, Rodney lived in Highland City, Bartow, and eventually 
Fort Meade, where he graduated high school in 1995. After graduation, 
Rodney accepted a music scholarship and began his higher education 
journey. First he attended Brevard Community College, then transferred 
to Lee University in Cleveland, Tennessee.
  Throughout their 15-year marriage, Rodney and Lindsey have lived in 
various places. Rodney served as a youth pastor in Fort Meade, Winter 
Haven, Lakeland, Tampa, and Englewood before planting a church in the 
Daytona area. After 2 years there, the opportunity came for Rodney to 
become a senior pastor in Frostproof.
  It was also in 2015 that Rodney decided to run for city council. He 
won the seat that year by only 20 votes. In his first city council 
meeting, he was elected by his peers to serve as vice mayor. During 
that first year on the council, Rodney was able to save the city 
residents and businesses hundreds of thousands of dollars by working 
hard to keep the volunteer fire department open.
  In 2016, he was elected to serve as mayor after only 1 year on the 
council, and the next year, reelected to serve another 1-year term as 
mayor.
  Thank you, Pastor Cannon, for all you do for the Frostproof 
community.

                          ____________________



