

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 9 (Tuesday, January 16, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 9 (Tuesday, January 16, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H176-H177]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                             SOARING STOCKS

  (Mr. WILSON of South Carolina asked and was given permission to 
address the House for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)

[[Page H177]]

  

  Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr. Speaker, all American families 
benefit when the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed at a record high 
of nearly 26,000 last week. Students benefit as college endowments 
grow, reducing tuition costs. Retirees benefit as their retirement 
accounts appreciate. With increased liquidity, jobs are created for 
small businesses.
  It is undeniable that the stock market, with the positive leadership 
of President Trump, has soared.
  Rush Limbaugh was correct on his program today that the growth is 
unprecedented. One year after President Trump was elected, the stock 
market increased by 28.5 percent. Today, the Dow Jones hit another 
record high, up over 7,200 points since the 2016 election. Since the 
start of the year, the stock market has already reached six new record 
highs.
  I am grateful for the leadership of President Trump, who has tweeted 
this achievement, with the leadership of Speaker Paul Ryan and House 
Republicans. This has promoted economic growth through the anticipation 
and enactment of bills creating immediate jobs, reduced regulations to 
allow small businesses to begin hiring again, and reformed our Tax Code 
so that families will be able to keep more of their hard-earned 
paycheck.
  In conclusion, God bless our troops, and we will never forget 
September the 11th in the global war on terrorism.

                          ____________________



