

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 34 (Monday, February 26, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 34 (Monday, February 26, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1212]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     HONORING COMMANDER PAUL BAUER

  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I rise with a heavy heart to pay tribute 
to Chicago Police Commander Paul Bauer, who gave his life to protect 
the city he loved. We use the word ``hero'' far too often, but in this 
case, that word is fitting. Commander Paul Bauer is a true American 
hero, and his loss is a tragedy.
  On February 13, Commander Bauer was at an ``active shooter'' training 
session in downtown Chicago, but he didn't hesitate to help out his 
fellow officers when they were pursuing a fleeing suspect. Commander 
Bauer was shot several times by the suspect and died from his wounds. 
Commander Bauer's story is a reminder to us all that our heroes serving 
in blue risk their lives every day, and even routine calls can turn 
into tragedy in an instant.
  A 31-year veteran of the Chicago Police Department and the commander 
of the 18th Police District in the Near North Side, Paul Bauer was a 
pillar of that community. Last year, he was commended by the city 
council for a charity holiday party he helped host for underprivileged 
kids. Police Superintendent Eddie Johnson said it best: ``This 
department didn't just lose an exemplary police officer. The City lost 
a piece of itself.''
  Last week, when the charges were announced against the alleged 
shooter, an impromptu memorial developed outside the Thompson Center. 
People brought flowers, left crosses, and displayed signs reading, 
``RIP CDR Bauer.'' One woman on her lunch break even left a plush 
stuffed dog that she hoped would make it in to the arms of Paul's 
teenage daughter. It was a tremendous show of love, respect, and 
gratitude.
  A few years ago, I gave a commencement address and asked the students 
to think about what they wanted people to say about their lives. I 
asked them, ``What will you be remembered for? What service did you 
render to your community? Your nation? You world?'' The great thing 
about living in America is we can choose the answers to those 
questions. Commander Bauer will be remembered for is his service to his 
community. He gave what Lincoln called, ``the last full measure of 
devotion'' and did so for the people and city he loved and served, but 
he will be remembered for so much more. A friend described Paul as 
``every bit the good guy he's being made out to be,'' but also added: 
``You can't capture his goodness.'' What a beautiful legacy.
  For all Paul Bauer's professional accomplishments, the highlights of 
his life were his family. Paul met his wife, Erin, met at a fundraiser 
for a Chicago police officer who was also killed in the line of duty. 
The Friday following Paul's death, February 16, would have been the 
couple's 16th anniversary. Together, Paul and Erin raised a bright and 
wonderful 13-year-old daughter Grace. Paul's family will carry on his 
legacy of love and his devotion to service and community.
  Commander Bauer was the quintessential officer, a role model in his 
department and his bravery inspires the rest of us, especially his 
friends and family. After his memorial service Commander Bauer's wife, 
Erin, sent a touching message to all who paid tribute to her husband. 
She wrote: ``One man almost stole my faith in humanity, but the City of 
Chicago and the rest of the nation restored it, and I want to thank you 
for that.''
  We are all humbled by her strength, and our thoughts and prayers are 
with Erin, Grace and all who loved and knew Paul. Commander Paul Bauer 
was one of our best.

                          ____________________



