

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 44 (Tuesday, March 13, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 44 (Tuesday, March 13, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1685]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




  PLACEMENT OF STATUE OF MARY McLEOD BETHUNE IN NATIONAL STATUARY HALL

  Mr. NELSON. Mr. President, Florida recently approved the placement of 
a statue of a truly inspirational woman, Dr. Mary McLeod Bethune, in 
the National Statuary Hall here in Washington, DC.
  Dr. Mary McLeod Bethune was an American educator, stateswoman, 
philanthropist, humanitarian, and civil rights activist. In 1904, Dr. 
Bethune founded Literature and Industrial Training School for African-
American students in Daytona Beach, FL, now Bethune-Cookman University. 
She founded and was the president of the State Federation of Colored 
Women's Club, where she led the fight against school segregation and 
healthcare inequality. Dr. Bethune also served as president of the 
National Association of Colored Women's Club and founded the National 
Council of Negro Women.
  Dr. Bethune became the first African-American woman to head a Federal 
agency when President Franklin D. Roosevelt appointed her 
administrative assistant for Negro Affairs of the National Youth 
Administration. She advised the President on concerns of African 
Americans and helped deliver his message and achievements with the 
African American community. Dr. Bethune became known as the First Lady 
of the Struggle because of her commitment to improve the lives of 
African Americans.
  Dr. Bethune maintained high standards and attracted tourists and 
donors to Bethune-Cookman College. She was president of the college 
from 1923 to 1942 and 1946 to 1947, one of the few women in the world 
to serve as a college president at that time.

                          ____________________



