

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 41 (Thursday, March 8, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 41 (Thursday, March 8, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1578-S1580]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 177

  At the request of Mr. Lee, the name of the Senator from Arizona (Mr. 
Flake) was added as a cosponsor of S. 177, a bill to provide for 
congressional review of the imposition of duties and other trade 
measures by the executive branch, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 236

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 236, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to reform taxation of alcoholic 
beverages.


                                 S. 502

  At the request of Ms. Smith, her name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
502, a bill to modify the boundary of Voyageurs National Park in the 
State of Minnesota, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 510

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 510, a bill to 
protect a woman's right and ability to determine whether and when to 
bear a child or end a pregnancy by limiting restrictions on the 
provision of abortion services.


                                 S. 545

  At the request of Mr. Paul, the names of the Senator from Iowa (Mr. 
Grassley) and the Senator from Arizona (Mr. McCain) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 545, a bill to preserve and protect the free choice of 
individual employees to form, join, or assist labor organizations, or 
to refrain from such activities.


                                 S. 569

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the names of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Jones) and the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Smith) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 569, a bill to amend title 54, United States Code, to 
provide consistent and reliable authority for, and for the funding of, 
the Land and Water Conservation Fund to maximize the effectiveness of 
the Fund for future generations, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 639

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 639, a bill to clarify 
that nonprofit organizations such as Habitat for Humanity may accept 
donated mortgage appraisals, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 781

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Inhofe) was added as a cosponsor of S. 781, a bill to amend the 
Public Health Service Act to limit the liability of health care 
professionals who volunteer to provide health care services in response 
to a disaster.


                                S. 1016

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the names of the Senator from Alaska 
(Ms. Murkowski) and the Senator from Montana (Mr. Tester) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1016, a bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
Security Act to expand access to telehealth services, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1121

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mrs. 
Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1121, a bill to establish a 
postsecondary student data system.


                                S. 1580

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1580, a bill to enhance the 
transparency, improve the coordination, and

[[Page S1579]]

intensify the impact of assistance to support access to primary and 
secondary education for displaced children and persons, including women 
and girls, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1613

  At the request of Mr. Risch, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1613, a bill to amend the 
Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act to modernize the funding of 
wildlife conservation, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1693

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Jones) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1693, a bill to amend the 
Communications Act of 1934 to clarify that section 230 of that Act does 
not prohibit the enforcement against providers and users of interactive 
computer services of Federal and State criminal and civil law relating 
to sex trafficking.


                                S. 1806

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1806, a bill to amend the 
Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990 and the Head Start 
Act to promote child care and early learning, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1933

  At the request of Mr. Lee, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1933, a bill to focus 
limited Federal resources on the most serious offenders.


                                S. 2135

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman), the Senator from Mississippi (Mr. Cochran), the Senator 
from Nebraska (Mrs. Fischer), the Senator from New York (Mrs. 
Gillibrand), the Senator from Virginia (Mr. Kaine) and the Senator from 
Oregon (Mr. Merkley) were added as cosponsors of S. 2135, a bill to 
enforce current law regarding the National Instant Criminal Background 
Check System.


                                S. 2143

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2143, a bill 
to amend the National Labor Relations Act to strengthen protections for 
employees wishing to advocate for improved wages, hours, or other terms 
or conditions of employment, to expand coverage under such Act, to 
provide a process for achieving initial collective bargaining 
agreements, and to provide for stronger remedies for interference with 
these rights, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2260

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the names of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) and the Senator from Florida (Mr. Nelson) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 2260, a bill to establish and fund an Opioids and STOP 
Initiative to expand, intensify, and coordinate fundamental, 
translational, and clinical research of the National Institutes of 
Health with respect to opioid abuse, the understanding of pain, and the 
discovery and development of safer and more effective treatments and 
preventive interventions for pain.


                                S. 2270

  At the request of Mr. Daines, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2270, a bill to make 
improvements to the account for the State response to the opioid abuse 
crisis to improve tribal health.


                                S. 2296

  At the request of Mr. Johnson, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mr. Blunt) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2296, a bill to increase 
access to agency guidance documents.


                                S. 2329

  At the request of Mr. Hoeven, the name of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mrs. Fischer) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2329, a bill to 
reauthorize and amend the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation 
Act of 2014, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2353

  At the request of Mr. Cotton, the name of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Barrasso) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2353, a bill to require 
the Secretary of the Treasury to report on the estimated total assets 
under direct or indirect control by certain senior Iranian leaders and 
other figures, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2364

  At the request of Mr. Boozman, the name of the Senator from Texas 
(Mr. Cornyn) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2364, a bill to amend the 
Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act of 2014 to provide to 
State infrastructure financing authorities additional opportunities to 
receive loans under that Act to support drinking water and clean water 
State revolving funds to deliver water infrastructure to communities 
across the United States, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2374

  At the request of Mr. Carper, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2374, a bill to amend the 
Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Improvement Act of 2012, 
including making changes to the Do Not Pay Initiative, for improved 
detection, prevention, and recovery of improper payments to deceased 
individuals, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2386

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Texas 
(Mr. Cornyn) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2386, a bill to provide 
additional protections for our veterans.


                                S. 2421

  At the request of Mrs. Fischer, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2421, a bill to amend the 
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act 
of 1980 to provide an exemption from certain notice requirements and 
penalties for releases of hazardous substances from animal waste at 
farms.


                                S. 2469

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2469, a bill to amend the Public 
Health Service Act to enhance efforts to address antibiotic resistance, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 2475

  At the request of Mr. Flake, the name of the Senator from Maine (Ms. 
Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2475, a bill to amend title 18, 
United States Code, to prohibit the illegal modification of firearms, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 2495

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mr. Blunt) and the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Whitehouse) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 2495, a bill to reauthorize the grant program 
for school security in the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act 
of 1968.


                              S.J. RES. 54

  At the request of Mr. Sanders, the names of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Leahy) and the Senator from California (Mrs. Feinstein) were added 
as cosponsors of S.J. Res. 54, a joint resolution to direct the removal 
of United States Armed Forces from hostilities in the Republic of Yemen 
that have not been authorized by Congress.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 2046

  At the request of Mr. Paul, the names of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin), the Senator from Florida (Mr. Rubio) and the Senator 
from Wyoming (Mr. Enzi) were added as cosponsors of amendment No. 2046 
intended to be proposed to S. 2155, a bill to promote economic growth, 
provide tailored regulatory relief, and enhance consumer protections, 
and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 2053

  At the request of Ms. Stabenow, the name of the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 2053 
intended to be proposed to S. 2155, a bill to promote economic growth, 
provide tailored regulatory relief, and enhance consumer protections, 
and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 2056

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 2056 intended 
to be proposed to S. 2155, a bill to promote economic growth, provide 
tailored regulatory relief, and enhance consumer protections, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 2057

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 2057 intended 
to

[[Page S1580]]

be proposed to S. 2155, a bill to promote economic growth, provide 
tailored regulatory relief, and enhance consumer protections, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 2060

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 2060 intended 
to be proposed to S. 2155, a bill to promote economic growth, provide 
tailored regulatory relief, and enhance consumer protections, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 2061

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 2061 intended 
to be proposed to S. 2155, a bill to promote economic growth, provide 
tailored regulatory relief, and enhance consumer protections, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 2063

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 2063 intended 
to be proposed to S. 2155, a bill to promote economic growth, provide 
tailored regulatory relief, and enhance consumer protections, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 2066

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 2066 intended 
to be proposed to S. 2155, a bill to promote economic growth, provide 
tailored regulatory relief, and enhance consumer protections, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 2067

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 2067 intended 
to be proposed to S. 2155, a bill to promote economic growth, provide 
tailored regulatory relief, and enhance consumer protections, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 2069

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 2069 intended 
to be proposed to S. 2155, a bill to promote economic growth, provide 
tailored regulatory relief, and enhance consumer protections, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 2079

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 2079 intended 
to be proposed to S. 2155, a bill to promote economic growth, provide 
tailored regulatory relief, and enhance consumer protections, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 2088

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 2088 
intended to be proposed to S. 2155, a bill to promote economic growth, 
provide tailored regulatory relief, and enhance consumer protections, 
and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 2094

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 2094 intended 
to be proposed to S. 2155, a bill to promote economic growth, provide 
tailored regulatory relief, and enhance consumer protections, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 2095

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 2095 intended 
to be proposed to S. 2155, a bill to promote economic growth, provide 
tailored regulatory relief, and enhance consumer protections, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 2102

  At the request of Mr. Inhofe, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 2102 intended to 
be proposed to S. 2155, a bill to promote economic growth, provide 
tailored regulatory relief, and enhance consumer protections, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 2103

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the names of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) and the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen) 
were added as cosponsors of amendment No. 2103 intended to be proposed 
to S. 2155, a bill to promote economic growth, provide tailored 
regulatory relief, and enhance consumer protections, and for other 
purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 2120

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 2120 
intended to be proposed to S. 2155, a bill to promote economic growth, 
provide tailored regulatory relief, and enhance consumer protections, 
and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 2133

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the name of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. 
Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 2133 intended to be 
proposed to S. 2155, a bill to promote economic growth, provide 
tailored regulatory relief, and enhance consumer protections, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 2134

  At the request of Mr. Kennedy, the name of the Senator from Iowa 
(Mrs. Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 2134 intended to 
be proposed to S. 2155, a bill to promote economic growth, provide 
tailored regulatory relief, and enhance consumer protections, and for 
other purposes.

                          ____________________



