

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 30 (Thursday, February 15, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 30 (Thursday, February 15, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1161-S1162]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




  150TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE BENEVOLENT AND PROTECTIVE ORDER OF THE ELKS

 Mr. HOEVEN. Mr. President, February 16, 2018, marks the 150th 
anniversary of the Benevolent and Protective Order of the Elks. The 
Elks is an American fraternal society dedicated to serving and caring 
for our citizens, communities, and country. The order continues to grow 
and thrive with a membership of nearly 1 million members and 2,000 
lodges nationwide.
  The Elks is dedicated to the ideals of charity, justice, and 
patriotism and has invested millions of hours annually in building 
stronger communities, assisting homeless veterans, and supporting youth 
substance abuse prevention initiatives.
  Patriotism is central to the order's principles and is demonstrated 
in some of the organization's charitable endeavors. In 1907, the Elks 
first adopted June 14 as Flag Day out of reverence for the American 
flag and the sacrifices made in honor of it. Almost 40 years later, 
Congress officially recognized June 14 as the national holiday honoring 
the American flag. Elks members donated over 1 million for the 
renovation of the Statue of Liberty, which helped to restore this 
important symbol of freedom. Elks members also contributed nearly 2 
million for the building of the National World War II Memorial in honor 
of the more than 16,000,000 people who served in the Second World War.

[[Page S1162]]

  The Order of the Elks has demonstrated a strong commitment to serving 
our county's veterans. The Elks are deeply engaged in the Veterans 
Affairs medical facilities by providing support and friendship to 
veterans at VA facilities. Furthermore, the Elks answered the call of 
the Department of Veterans Affairs to better address veteran 
homelessness by founding the Welcome Home Program.
  Providing mentorship and instilling good character and moral values 
in our country's youth is another important facet of the Elk's mission. 
Our youth are the leaders of tomorrow, and the Elks are committed to 
helping them succeed by supporting scholarships that allow more 
children to pursue their dreams. Further, the order educates parents 
and their children about the dangers of using illegal substances, 
tobacco products, alcohol, and abusing prescription drugs. These 
prevention and awareness programs help give young people the tools and 
information they need to make good decisions when faced with negative 
social pressures.
  I encourage my colleagues in the Senate to join me in recognizing and 
congratulating the Benevolent and Protective Order of the Elks on its 
150th anniversary. The Order of the Elks has been and will continue to 
be a shining example of honor and service to neighbor, community, and 
nation.

                          ____________________



