

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 16 (Tuesday, January 23, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 16 (Tuesday, January 23, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S468]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 58

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the names of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) and the Senator from Indiana (Mr. Young) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 58, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code 
of 1986 to repeal the excise tax on high cost employer-sponsored health 
coverage.


                                 S. 833

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 833, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to expand health care and benefits 
from the Department of Veterans Affairs for military sexual trauma, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 918

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mr. 
Grassley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 918, a bill to amend title 31, 
United States Code, to provide for automatic continuing resolutions.


                                S. 1106

  At the request of Mr. Merkley, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Bennet) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1106, a bill to designate 
the same individual serving as the Chief Nurse Officer of the Public 
Health Service as the National Nurse for Public Health.


                                S. 1162

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1162, a bill to amend the 
Higher Education Act of 1965 to provide for the refinancing of certain 
Federal student loans, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1774

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1774, a bill to provide 
protections for workers with respect to their right to select or 
refrain from selecting representation by a labor organization.


                                S. 1873

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1873, a bill to 
require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to carry out a program to 
establish peer specialists in patient aligned care teams at medical 
centers of the Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1989

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the names of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin) and the Senator from Florida (Mr. Nelson) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1989, a bill to enhance transparency and 
accountability for online political advertisements by requiring those 
who purchase and publish such ads to disclose information about the 
advertisements to the public, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2105

  At the request of Mr. Boozman, the name of the Senator from Idaho 
(Mr. Crapo) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2105, a bill to modify the 
presumption of service connection for veterans who were exposed to 
herbicide agents while serving in the Armed Forces in Thailand during 
the Vietnam era, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2250

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2250, a bill to 
ensure due process protections of individuals in the United States 
against unlawful detention based solely on a protected characteristic.


                                S. 2271

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2271, a bill to reauthorize 
the Museum and Library Services Act.


                                S. 2286

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
2286, a bill to amend the Peace Corps Act to provide greater protection 
and services for Peace Corps volunteers, and for other purposes.

                          ____________________



