

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 25 (Thursday, February 8, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 25 (Thursday, February 8, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S839]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                200TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE TOWN OF MEXICO

 Mr. KING. Mr. President, today I would like to recognize the 
town of Mexico, ME, as they will celebrate their 200th year since 
incorporation on February 13, 2018. Located in Oxford County, Mexico is 
bordered by the Androscoggin River, as well as Dixfield and the 
historic mill town of Rumford. Recognized as the gateway to the Western 
mountains, visitors and residents enjoy the town's colorful fall 
foliage, quaint downtown, and proximity to the great Maine outdoors.
  The town of Mexico's unique name stemmed from the local interest in 
foreign politics. In the early 1700s, the territory was known as 
``Township Number One'' until the area was bought by Colonel John 
Holman near the end of the 18th century. Just a few years after the 
American Revolutionary War, Holmanstown was renamed to honor the 
country of Mexico's fight for independence from Spain. Though the 
Mexican War for independence was occurring almost 3,000 miles south of 
the small town, locals were known to be sympathetic to supporting North 
America's decolonization from European powers.
  In the spirit of celebration, the town of Mexico has 13 bicentennial 
events planned throughout the year. The multigenerational festivities 
will include a parade, a carnival, a talent show, as well as 
``Mexicoploy,'' a familiar board game specifically designed to 
recognize local businesses and organizations for their everyday 
accomplishments. I would like to commend the community members of 
Mexico for all that they have done during this time of celebration and 
historical remembrance. Maine is proud to honor a community that has 
successfully evolved and adapted with the changing times.

                          ____________________



