

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 36 (Wednesday, February 28, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 36 (Wednesday, February 28, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1290]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I have 5 requests for committees to 
meet during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of 
the Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


               Committee on Environment and Public Works

  The Committee on Environment and Public Works is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, February, 28, 2018, at 
10 a.m., to conduct a hearing entitled ``Oversight: FBI Headquarters 
Consolidation Project.''


           Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, February, 28, 
2018, at 9:45 a.m., to conduct a hearing.


        Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs

  The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, 
February, 28, 2018, at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing on pending 
legislation and the following nomination: Michael K. Atkinson, of 
Maryland, to be Inspector General of the Intelligence Community, Office 
of the Director of National Intelligence.


                     Committee on Veterans' Affairs

  The Committee on Veterans' Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, February, 28, 2018, at 10 a.m., to 
conduct a joint hearing with the House Committee on Veterans' Affairs.


                    Subcommittee on Water and Power

  The Subcommittee on Water and Power of the Committee on Energy and 
Natural Resources is authorized to meet during the session of the 
Senate on Wednesday, February, 28, 2018 at 11 a.m. to conduct a 
hearing.

                          ____________________



