

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 6 (Wednesday, January 10, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 6 (Wednesday, January 10, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S137-S138]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 MACOMB COUNTY, MICHIGAN, BICENTENNIAL

 Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize the 200th 
anniversary of Macomb County, MI. Situated along Lake Saint Clair in 
the southeast corner of Michigan, Macomb County is built on industry 
and entrepreneurship and populated with dedicated citizens and 
entrepreneurs.
  French fur trappers were the first Europeans to arrive in the area 
during the 17th century, and when they recognized the possibilities 
presented to them within the area's marshes, they sought new 
opportunities for trade. Moravian missionaries later established the 
first organized, non-native settlement in the area in 1782 as a refuge 
for Native Americans who had converted to Christianity along the banks 
of the Clinton River. In March 1780, Christian Clemens purchased a 
distillery, which is considered the first building on the site of the 
future city of Mount Clemens. The next year, he bought 500 acres for 
development, and the site became known as High Banks. On January 15, 
1818, Macomb County was formally organized as the third county in the 
Michigan territory and was named in honor of General Alexander Macomb, 
a highly decorated veteran of the War of 1812. High Banks was platted 
as the Village of Mount Clemens and named the county seat.
  Starting in the early 1800s and continuing until 1840, settlers began 
moving into the interior of the county and carved out farms from the 
hardwood forests. Families began focusing on agriculture as the roots 
of county villages and towns began to be established by this time. 
Germans, Belgians, and other Europeans also began joining the original 
French and English settlers during this time. During the 1870s, mineral 
baths brought international fame to Mount Clemens as many thought the 
waters had healing powers, though interest in the spas eventually died 
out in the early 20th century.
  Between 1920 and 1930, Macomb County saw its first population spike 
when it more than doubled from 38,000 to 77,000. This was caused by the 
establishment of Selfridge Field in 1917, now the Selfridge Air 
National Guard Base, and the beginning of the migration of automotive 
workers moving out of the city of Detroit. During the 1940s and 1950s, 
the suburbs again saw a population increase but the largest instance of 
growth occurred between 1950 and 1970, when more than 440,000 moved to 
Macomb County and helped make it one of Michigan's largest counties.
  Today Macomb County encompasses 27 local municipalities that nearly 1 
million Michiganders call home. Like our country, its people come from 
different backgrounds and ethnicities and share many different 
cultures. There are robust urban clusters, a prosperous manufacturing 
and economic industry throughout that is home to more than 18,000 
businesses, and beautiful natural features and agricultural lands in 
the north. All of this has contributed to Macomb County having over 
865,000 residents, making it the third most populated county in our 
great State.
  Macomb County has been an integral part of Michigan and our great 
Nation for 200 years. As a fifth generation Michigander living in the 
southeast Michigan area, I am honored to ask my colleagues to join me 
in celebrating this significant milestone for one of Michigan's most 
important and storied counties and all those fortunate enough to call 
it home. I wish Macomb County continued growth and prosperity for many 
years to come.

[[Page S138]]

  

                          ____________________



