

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 6 (Wednesday, January 10, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 6 (Wednesday, January 10, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H88-H89]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 HONORING SERGEANT MAJOR ROBERT HAWKINS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Minnesota (Mr. Walz) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. WALZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Sergeant Major 
Robert Hawkins of the United States Army for his extraordinary 
dedication to duty and service to our Nation. Sergeant Major Hawkins 
will soon transition from his current assignment as an Army 
Congressional Legislative Liaison Officer in the House of 
Representatives to serve in the Office of the Assistant Secretary of 
the Army for Acquisition, Logistics, and Technology.
  A native of Alexandria, Virginia, Sergeant Major Hawkins began his 
military career as an airborne infantryman in 1990. He subsequently 
served in assignments to the Republic of Panama; Fort Myers, Florida; 
Schofield Barracks, Hawaii; Fort Polk, Louisiana; Fort Bliss, Texas; 
Fort Campbell, Kentucky; and three times at Fort Bragg, North Carolina.
  Sergeant Major Hawkins has served in multiple leadership and staff 
positions throughout his distinguished career. His combat deployments 
include one tour in Iraq in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom and 
three tours of combat in Afghanistan in support of Operation Enduring 
Freedom.
  In 2014, Sergeant Major Hawkins was selected as a fellow in the Army 
Congressional Fellowship Program. He subsequently served 12 months as a 
defense legislative fellow in my congressional office, representing the 
First Congressional District of Minnesota.
  While working on our team, I came to know Sergeant Major Hawkins as a 
shining example of the Army values set forth in the Noncommissioned 
Officer's Creed. ``Competence'' is indeed Sergeant Major Hawkins' 
watchword, and his commitment to doing what good NCOs do, accomplishing 
every mission, while taking care of his teammates, was second to none.
  For the next 2 years, Sergeant Major Hawkins served as a 
Congressional Legislative Liaison Officer in the United States Army 
House Liaison Division. As the primary link between House Members, 
their staff, and the committees, along with the Army, he has provided 
insight and understanding

[[Page H89]]

of Army policies, actions, operations, and requirements. His firsthand 
knowledge of the military, its culture, and its tradition has been of 
tremendous value to congressional offices.
  Sergeant Major Hawkins was especially effective in his service to 
Members and staff as he escorted them on fact-finding and oversight 
delegations within and outside the United States. Members and staff 
found him to be a thoughtful, intelligent, dedicated soldier in the 
very best traditions of America's Armed Forces.

  Mr. Speaker, it has been a pleasure to know and serve with Sergeant 
Major Hawkins during his time as Army Congressional Fellow and 
Congressional Legislative Liaison Officer in the House of 
Representatives.
  On behalf of a grateful nation, it is my honor to recognize the 
selfless service and sacrifice of Sergeant Major Robert ``Bobby'' 
Hawkins and his family. I wish Sergeant Major Hawkins the very best as 
he begins a new chapter of dedicated service to our Nation in the 
United States Army.

                          ____________________



