

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 44 (Tuesday, March 13, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 44 (Tuesday, March 13, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H1510]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         RECOGNIZING DREW SCOTT

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. Farenthold) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. FARENTHOLD. Mr. Speaker, my office is now accepting artwork for 
the 2018 Congressional Art Competition.
  Each spring, the Congressional Institute sponsors a nationwide high 
school visual arts competition to recognize artistic talent in the 
Nation and in each congressional district.
  In 2017, the winning entry was drawn by Drew Scott from Rockport-
Fulton High School. Her piece, ``Complementary Calico,'' along with the 
other 2017 winning entries from other congressional districts, 
currently hang in the Cannon tunnel, the walkway that connects the U.S. 
Capitol to the House office buildings.
  The Congressional Art Competition is a great way to encourage 
artistic abilities and reward talented students for their efforts and 
gives them an opportunity to compete.
  Since the competition began in 1982, more than 6,500 high school 
students have participated.
  Students from the district I represent, the 27th District of Texas, 
who wish to participate in this competition may submit up to two pieces 
of artwork to my office by Friday, April 6, 2018, in order to be 
considered.
  I wish all the talented high schoolers of the 27th District of Texas 
the best of luck.


                       Recognizing Joyce Hunsaker

  Mr. FARENTHOLD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate Joyce 
Hunsaker, a 17-year-old from Corpus Christi, who recently won a bronze 
medal in the International Bunker Trap at the World Shotgun 
Championship in Moscow.
  Joyce has been named a member of the elite 4-person Texas State 
National 4-H shotgun team. In June of last year, her teammates and her 
competed in the National Championships in Grand Island, Nebraska, where 
they took home first place in team skeet shooting and sporting clays, 
third in trap, and earned the title of National Champions for 2017.
  Joyce also competed and won the Junior Women's gold medal in the 2017 
State Junior Olympics international bunker trap competition last year.
  Joyce then advanced to the 2017 National Junior Olympic Championships 
in Colorado Springs, where she took home a bronze medal in the Junior 
Women's International Bunker Trap event and was selected to represent 
the United States as a member of the 2017 Junior World Cup Team.
  Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Joyce on all her hard work and success 
that she is enjoying as a result of it. Keep up the good work.

                          ____________________



