

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 41 (Thursday, March 8, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 41 (Thursday, March 8, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H1499]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               HONORING THE LIFE OF MARVIN ``CY'' MEYERS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under the Speaker's announced policy of 
January 3, 2017, the gentlewoman from Washington (Ms. Herrera Beutler) 
is recognized for 60 minutes as the designee of the majority leader.
  Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER. Mr. Speaker, today I rise to honor the life of 
Marvin ``Cy'' Meyers and recognize his lifelong service to the United 
States Military and to his community of Winlock and across Lewis 
County.
  Born during the Great Depression and from a military family, Cy grew 
up poor, but he had an abundant love of family. In the summer of 1943, 
Cy joined the Marines and served in World War II, where he fought at 
Iwo Jima.
  After his service in the military, Cy came home to the Pacific 
Northwest and met the love of his life, Bonita. A friend of Cy's 
started an egg farm in Winlock and asked him to work delivering eggs, a 
job Cy maintained for 20 years. Cy and Bonita bought a home in Winlock, 
where they settled for the remainder of their lives and raised their 
four children.
  Cy was a cornerstone community member. Everyone in Lewis County knew 
him. He served on the city council, Educational Service District 113 
Board, Civil Service Commission, Board of Adjustment, and the 
Washington State Republicans Executive Board. Cy also served as mayor 
of Winlock for 6 years.
  Please join me in honoring the selfless and passionate dedication of 
Marvin ``Cy'' Meyers and his legacy that will remain with us all, as 
this was the week that he left this world for the next. We love him. We 
are grateful to him and his family for his service, and we will 
remember him.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.

                          ____________________



