

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 7 (Thursday, January 11, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 7 (Thursday, January 11, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H164]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  102ND ANNUAL PENNSYLVANIA FARM SHOW

  (Mr. SMUCKER asked and was given permission to address the House for 
1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. SMUCKER. Mr. Speaker, this past Saturday I attended the 102nd 
Annual Pennsylvania Farm Show. It was great to speak to and see so many 
constituents there supporting and learning about our agriculture 
community.
  The farm show is special to Pennsylvania. It is the Nation's largest 
indoor agricultural event. It showcases more than 12,000 competitive 
exhibits, more than half of which are animal exhibits. More than 1,000 
exhibitors and competitors were from my congressional district, like 
Natalie Eberly, who was showing Polled Hereford beef cattle.
  It is well known for its delicious food, which I enjoyed and which 
raises money for nonprofits that support our agriculture community. 
This farm show highlights just a sliver of the industry that employs 
nearly half a million people in Pennsylvania and contributes $185 
billion to our economy each year.
  Special thanks to Congressman G.T. Thompson, my colleague from 
Pennsylvania, who is vice chair of the ag committee who conducted a 
listening session with other members of the Pennsylvania delegation, as 
well as members of the ag committee. I was very pleased to welcome to 
Pennsylvania Roger Marshall from Kansas and Ranking Member Collin 
Peterson. It was a great session with many members of the ag community 
from across Pennsylvania.

  I also would like to thank Farm Show Executive Director Sharon 
Altland for once again putting on a fantastic show. I also thank PA Ag 
Secretary Redding and U.S. Department of Agriculture Under Secretary 
Greg Ibach for attending and participating in the listening session as 
well.
  Once again, fabulous show. I look forward to attending again next 
year.

                          ____________________



