

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 16 (Tuesday, January 23, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 16 (Tuesday, January 23, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S471]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I have 7 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


                      Committee on Armed Services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, January 23, 2018, at 9:30 a.m., to 
conduct a closed hearing on Nuclear Posture Review and pending 
nominations.


            Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs

  The Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, January 23, 2018, at 
10 a.m., to conduct a hearing on the following nominations: Jelena 
McWilliams, of Ohio, to be Chairperson of the Board of Directors, and 
to be a Member of the Board of Directors, Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation, Marvin Goodfriend, of Pennsylvania, to be a Member of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and Thomas E. 
Workman, of New York, to be a Member of the Financial Stability 
Oversight Council.


               Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

  The Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, January 23, 2018, at 10 
a.m. to conduct a hearing entitled ``Examine the performance of the 
electric power system in the Northeast and mid-Atlantic during recent 
winter weather events, including the bomb cyclone.''


           Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pension

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pension is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, January 23, 2018, 
at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing entitled ``Facing 21st Century Public 
Health Threats: Our Nation's Preparedness and Response Capabilities, 
Part 2.''


                    Select Committee on Intelligence

  The Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, January 23, 2018 at 2:30 p.m., to 
conduct a closed hearing.


                     Subcommittee on Cybersecurity

  The Subcommittee on Cybersecurity of the Committee on Armed Services 
is authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, 
January 23, 2018, at 3:30 p.m. to conduct a closed hearing.


      Subcommittee on Surface Transportation and Merchant Marine 
                  Infrastructure, Safety and Security

  The Subcommittee on Surface Transportation and Merchant Marine 
Infrastructure, Safety and Security of the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Tuesday, January 23, 2018, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a 
hearing.

                          ____________________



