

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 48 (Tuesday, March 20, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 48 (Tuesday, March 20, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1800-S1801]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




     PUERTO RICO AND U.S. VIRGIN ISLANDS HURRICANE RECOVERY EFFORT

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I would like to say a word about Puerto 
Rico. Today marks the sixth anniversary of Hurricane Maria's landfall 
on the island--the 6-month anniversary. We all know that the storm in 
Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands was one of the most powerful 
and devastating ever to have struck those islands. There was terrible 
damage to schools, hospitals, water systems, roads, homes, and 
businesses.

[[Page S1801]]

  For months and months, people didn't have electricity or clean water 
or cell service. Far too many people are still waiting for relief. 
There are 120,000 people without electricity. Hundreds of thousands 
continue to lose power on a temporary basis. Calculating the hours of 
lost electricity service, Puerto Rico has experienced the longest 
blackout in the history of the United States.
  Tens of thousands are still awaiting permanent shelter, and 10,000 
small businesses are closed.
  Puerto Rico struggled with a severe debt and healthcare crisis before 
Hurricane Maria came to its shores. The damage wrought by the hurricane 
has set the island even further back, despite the valiant efforts of 
its people.
  Congress has passed significant relief as part of the bipartisan 
budget agreement earlier this year. We have to make sure that the aid 
goes to where it needs to go and that we provide additional aid if it 
is required.
  To the long-suffering citizens of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, 
and the thousands who have relocated to the mainland, we haven't 
forgotten you. We are here to help you. You are on our minds, and we 
are going to keep fighting to help you rebuild your homes, your 
communities, and your beloved islands.

                          ____________________



