

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 19 (Monday, January 29, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 19 (Monday, January 29, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S548-S549]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                         TRIBUTE TO PATTI MEALS

 Mr. HELLER. Mr. President, today I wish to congratulate Patti 
Meals on her retirement from CARE Chest of Sierra Nevada. For 26 years, 
Patti made an indelible impact on the people of northern Nevada as 
executive director of CARE Chest.
  From serving 334 Nevadans in 1990, when the CARE Chest first opened, 
to more than 13,000 in 2017, Ms. Meals has helped provide over 139,000 
services and distribute 220,000 pieces of medical equipment and 
supplies in her career.
  With Ms. Meals' dedication and passion, CARE Chest of Sierra Nevada 
has made great strides in improving the health and well-being of 
countless northern Nevadans by providing free medical resources to 
those in need.
  The group's programs are tailored to aid and support the area's 
underserved populations and include connecting local families to 
medical equipment, prescription assistance, diabetic supplies, medical 
nutrition, home and vehicle modifications, and wellness education.
  As a result of Ms. Meals' work, CARE Chest today owns its 5,000-
square-foot facility in Reno and is considered a cornerstone of the 
northern Nevada community. The nonprofit has helped thousands of 
vulnerable Nevadans in their path to recovery. It is worth noting that, 
in 2010, during Ms. Meals' tenure, CARE Chest of Sierra Nevada was

[[Page S549]]

named Human Services Network's Agency of the Year.
  Ms. Meals is also a founding member of Alliance for Nevada 
Nonprofits, ANN, a group that aims to be a leader and voice for 
Nevada's nonprofit sector; and the resource for sustainability, 
advocacy, and professionalism. Since 2009, Ms. Meals has held a board 
position and currently serves as the board treasurer. She is also an 
active and long-term member of the Sparks Rotary and has collaborated 
with countless community organizations over the years.
  As Nevada's senior Senator, I want to thank Ms. Meals for her 
tireless efforts during the last quarter of a century. I offer her the 
very best during her retirement and my well wishes for many successful 
and fulfilling years to come.

                          ____________________



