

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 30 (Thursday, February 15, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 30 (Thursday, February 15, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1161]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      REMEMBERING SHEILA ANN OLSEN

 Mr. CRAPO. Mr. President, my colleague Senator Jim Risch joins 
me today in honoring the extraordinary life of Sheila Ann Olsen, of 
Idaho Falls, ID, a dear friend and leader.
  Sheila cared deeply for others as was clear from her community 
involvement. She devoted countless hours to assisting fellow Idahoans 
and bettering our communities. Some of the organizations and efforts 
she led and served in include the Idaho Commission on Human Rights, the 
Development Workshop Foundation, the Mayor's Committee on Race 
Relations, the Mayor's Cultural Awareness and Human Relations 
Committee, the Idaho Falls ADA Accessibility Commission, the ``Unity in 
the Community'' Prayer-a-Thon, the Governor's Workforce Development 
Council, Brigham Young University Alumni Board member, Idaho Department 
of Labor Employment Security Advisory Council, and the Electoral 
College. She was a dedicated member of the Church of Jesus Christ of 
Latter-day Saints and a leader in the local and State Republican Party. 
Sheila is broadly admired for her giving spirit, and many credit Sheila 
with her help in advancing them on their career paths.
  While she was deeply principled and committed to her religious faith, 
she worked extensively with and greatly valued working with others of 
differing faiths and backgrounds. She sought common ground and held 
high regard for bridging faiths, races, and backgrounds. We echo the 
descriptions of Sheila esteemed by her family and many friends: joyful, 
positive, engaged, compassionate, kind, fair, good, patriotic, and 
well-respected. Her attributes and hard work have received many 
recognitions including ``National MS Mother of the Year'' by President 
George H.W. Bush, Brigham Young University's ``Service to Family 
Award,'' ``Exemplary Citizen'' by the Rotary Club, and many more.
  Sheila Olsen will be remembered as someone who set an enduring 
example of service to others. She was a mother of 10 children and a 
wife to the late Dennis Olsen. She was a grandmother to 39 
grandchildren and great-grandmother to 23 great-grandchildren. She 
overcame the complications of multiple sclerosis to give extensively. 
Her legacy of devotion to her family, her religion, and serving will 
carry on in the many lives positively influenced by this great leader. 
We express our deep condolences to her family and friends and thank 
Sheila for her friendship and lasting service.

                          ____________________



