

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 16 (Tuesday, January 23, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 16 (Tuesday, January 23, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S464-S465]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                  REMEMBERING MARGARET SOONG MEOW LEE

 Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I rise today with a heavy heart 
to pay tribute to Margaret Soong Meow Lee, a remarkable educator, 
researcher, and family woman. Sadly, Mrs. Lee passed away on August 1, 
2017. She will be remembered for her dedication to helping others as 
well as for her invaluable contributions to the field of forensic 
science.
  Mrs. Lee was born in Sarawak, Malaysia, and went on to earn her 
bachelor's degree in education from Taiwan Normal University. 
Subsequently, she received a master's degree in education from Long 
Island University and a postgraduate certificate from Seton Hall 
University in bilingual and multilingual education.
  Mrs. Lee became a teacher and ultimately an assistant high school 
principal in Sarawak and served as the commissioner of women's affairs. 
She brought her love for educating others to the United States and 
continued teaching in New York. Her impressive career in the New York 
City public school system lasted nearly a decade.
  After moving to Connecticut, Mrs. Lee worked at the Veterans 
Administration Hospital in West Haven as a computer programming analyst 
for 20 years. Her exemplary work at the VA hospital still benefits that 
facility.
  Mrs. Lee's extraordinary life's work includes her husband's career as 
well. As the wife of Dr. Henry C. Lee, the founder of the University of 
New Haven's Institute of Forensic Science and internationally renowned 
forensic scientist, Mrs. Lee accompanied her husband to hundreds, if 
not thousands, of his lectures. Throughout the course of his 
distinguished criminal justice career, Dr. Lee received unfailing 
support and assistance from his wife. They traveled the world together, 
with Mrs. Lee serving as a trusted sounding

[[Page S465]]

board, expert aide de camp, and vital source of insight and 
perspective. Her remarkable intelligence and wisdom greatly assisted 
Dr. Lee and the many professionals and criminal justice experts who 
worked with him. I have valued my personal relationship of many years 
with these two uniquely talented, insightful, and public-spirited 
friends and professionals.
  Known as a caring mother, excellent educator, and strong advocate for 
the University of New Haven's international students, Mrs. Lee received 
many awards including a ``Mother of the Year'' award by the Chinese 
American Parent-Student Council of New York City and an honorary doctor 
of humane letters degree in 2012 from the University of New Haven. To 
honor her ongoing memory and strong support for the university, the 
Margaret Lee Scholarship Fund was established upon her passing.
  My wife, Cynthia, and I extend our deepest sympathies to Mrs. Lee's 
family during this difficult time, particularly to her husband--a dear 
friend and role model of public service--their two children, and their 
four grandchildren. May their many wonderful memories of Mrs. Lee 
provide them solace and comfort in the days ahead.

                          ____________________



