

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 5 (Tuesday, January 9, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 5 (Tuesday, January 9, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H28]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




            SUPPORTING THOSE LIVING WITH ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Fitzpatrick) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to share the story of 
Philip Gutis.
  Mr. Gutis is from New Hope, Pennsylvania. At the age of 56, he has 
been diagnosed with early-onset Alzheimer's disease. Early-onset 
Alzheimer's currently affects hundreds of thousands of Americans who 
are under the age of 65. Diagnoses for this debilitating neurological 
disease in its early stages can be arduous and frustrating, as many of 
the symptoms resemble less serious issues like stress.
  Mr. Gutis recently visited my district office to discuss living with 
this disease. He detailed the pain, stress, and confusion that he felt 
when first diagnosed. He described how simple tasks can become 
challenging when dealing with memory loss. But his message was not to 
complain about his ailment, it was to be a voice for other individuals 
who live with Alzheimer's, those who are unable to have their voices be 
heard.
  Alzheimer's is a serious neurological disease. Though there is no 
cure, treatment for symptoms can help slow the progressive effects of 
dementia.
  I stand in support of Mr. Gutis and all those living with 
Alzheimer's.


                      Doylestown Health Foundation

  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, the Doylestown Health Foundation is a 
healthcare network that has provided critical care to the Bucks County 
community for over 90 years. In recognition of its continued work, 
Doylestown Health recently received $10 million in gifts, the largest 
amount in their history.
  The pair of $5 million donations were given by two families with 
close ties to the Doylestown Health Foundation. Richard and Angela 
Clark have had four generations of family cared for at Doylestown 
Hospital, while Alex Gorsky, the CEO of Johnson & Johnson, and his 
wife, Patricia, have served on the hospital board and board of 
directors, respectively.
  Supporting institutions in our community through charitable donations 
are crucial to community prosperity. The generous gifts of the Clark 
and Gorsky families are earmarked for vital projects like a new heart 
and vascular center.
  With contributions like these, the Doylestown Health Foundation will 
be able to continue providing optimal care to those in our Bucks County 
community.

                          ____________________



