

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 10 (Wednesday, January 17, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 10 (Wednesday, January 17, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S215]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           CHINA TRADE POLICY

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, on one other issue--this is really in my 
craw--the New York Times reported that one of the fastest growing 
Chinese car companies is plotting ways to sell cars in America. 
According to the Times, by pursuing a partnership with Fiat Chrysler, 
the Chinese state-owned company GAC Automobiles hopes to enter the U.S. 
market through the backdoor. It would be the first Chinese car maker to 
sell in the United States. If they were to do so, they would face a 
2.5-percent tariff here in the United States. Meanwhile, if a U.S. 
automaker sold cars in China, it would face a 25-percent tariff--10 
times higher--and would have to compete with state-owned businesses and 
unfair regulations.
  So while China prevents U.S. automakers from gaining a foothold in 
their country with prohibitive tariffs--what the Times called ``the 
highest trade barriers by far of any major car market''--they are 
plotting ways to eat into our market. It is manifestly unfair and a 
perfect example of China's rapacious trading policies.
  President Trump and his campaign won a lot of votes by promising over 
and over again that he would crack down on Chinese mercantilism, but 
once in office, unfortunately, like so many of his other promises and 
commitments to working Americans, he has not done it. And he has 
delayed trade enforcement against China time and time again. Even the 
studies he has commissioned have been delayed.
  We need to get serious about these flagrant trade abuses before it is 
too late. Middle-class jobs and bedrock American industries are at 
stake.
  I yield the floor.

                          ____________________



