

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 41 (Thursday, March 8, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 41 (Thursday, March 8, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1614-S1615]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. FISCHER. Mr. President, I have 8 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


                      Committee on Armed Services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, March 8, 2018, at 9:30 a.m., to 
conduct a hearing.


               Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

  The Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Thursday, March 8, 2018, at 10 
a.m., to conduct a hearing on pending legislation.


               Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

  The Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Thursday, March 8, 2018, at 2:30 
p.m., to conduct a hearing on S. 2421, to amend the Comprehensive 
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 to 
provide an exemption from certain notice requirements and penalties for 
releases of hazardous substances from animal waste at farms.


           Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pension

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pension is authorized 
to meet during the session of the

[[Page S1615]]

Senate on Thursday, March 8, 2018, at 10 a.m.., to conduct a hearing 
entitled ``The Opioid Crisis: Leadership and Innovation in the 
States.''


           Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pension

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pension is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, March 8, 2018, at 
1:30 p.m., to conduct a hearing on the following nominations: John F. 
Ring, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the National Labor 
Relations Board, Frank T. Brogan, of Pennsylvania, to be Assistant 
Secretary for Elementary and Secondary Education, and Mark Schneider, 
of the District of Columbia, to be Director of the Institute of 
Education Science, both of the Department of Education, Marco M. 
Rajkovich, Jr., of Kentucky, to be a Member of the Federal Mine Safety 
and Health Review Commission, and other pending nominations.


                    Select Committee on Intelligence

  The Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, March 8, 2018, at 2 p.m., to conduct 
a hearing.


                       Subcommittee on Personnel

  The Subcommittee on Personnel of the Committee on Armed Services is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, March 
8, 2018 at 2:15 p.m. to conduct a hearing.


 Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management, and Regulation Oversight

  The Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management, and Regulation 
Oversight of the Committee on Environment and Public Works is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, March 
8, 2018 at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing entitled ``Legislation Hearing 
on S. 2421, the Fair Agricultural Reporting Method Act.''

                          ____________________



