

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 20 (Tuesday, January 30, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 20 (Tuesday, January 30, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H684-H685]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PAYING TRIBUTE TO LYLE WELLS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from New 
York (Mr. Zeldin) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Speaker, today I rise to pay tribute to two leaders, 
one from the First Congressional District of New York, from the North 
Fork.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise to pay tribute to Lyle Wells, whose family farm 
is over 350 years old. Lyle was taken from our community too soon. He 
was a leader, a former president of the Long Island Farm Bureau, and a 
one-time member of the Riverhead Town Planning Board.
  He positively led and left a great impact and legacy on the next 
generation of farmers who really do need to be better cultivated to 
give that opportunity to be able to thrive.
  Long Island Farm Bureau Administrative Director Rob Carpenter, 
talking about Wells' impact and a relationship going back decades, 
said: ``He would take all the time needed to explain a program to 
anyone who wanted to learn about farming--a legislator, a community 
member, another farmer. It's a big loss. You just can't replace a 
Lyle.''
  It was also observed that everyone would start laughing because of 
his style of laughter. It was an honor that he graced our community and 
our town. Him having gone through life in this community made the rest 
of us better. That was the positive impact of Lyle Wells.
  A memorial service will be held for Lyle this Thursday, February 1, 
beginning at 11 a.m. on the hill at Wells Homestead Acres, located at 
185 Phillips Lane in Aquebogue.
  We will pray for Lyle's family. We are thinking about Lyle, and he 
will certainly be looking over what hopefully will be 350 more years of 
great farming on that family farm.


                 Paying Tribute to Rabbi Isaiah Zeldin

  Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Speaker, I also rise today to pay tribute to Rabbi 
Isaiah Zeldin, who just passed away at the age of 97.
  For me, Rabbi Zeldin was Uncle Shy. For the Stephen Wise Temple in 
Los Angeles, he was their founder, their rabbi, their teacher, and 
their friend, according to the announcement they posted on their 
website.
  Rabbi Zeldin was born in Brooklyn, New York. His father's picture, 
Morris, is in my office. Morris Zeldin was a respected scholar and 
ardent Zionist. Rabbi Zeldin moved to Los Angeles in 1954 to establish 
the California branch of Hebrew Union College and served as an 11-State 
regional director of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations.

[[Page H685]]

  In 1964, he and a nucleus of 35 families founded Stephen Wise Temple 
on a beautiful 18-acre mountain site situated between the city's two 
largest Jewish population centers: the West Side and San Fernando 
Valley.

                              {time}  1015

  It is a beautiful temple. When you are there for a service and hear 
the great singers and see the sunset out the windows, you know that you 
are in a very special place. This temple became one of the largest 
Jewish congregations in the entire world.
  Uncle Shy, we miss you. We thank you, and we know that you have 
impacted tens of thousands of people so positively, and we will honor 
you, remember you for your legacy and your impact on generations to 
come.

                          ____________________



