

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 38 (Monday, March 5, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 38 (Monday, March 5, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H1346]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     HONORING DEPUTY JACOB PICKETT

  (Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana asked and was given permission to address the 
House for 1 minute.)
  Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor Deputy 
Jacob Pickett of the Boone County Sheriff's Office, who paid the 
ultimate sacrifice and sacrificed his life on the job last Friday.
  As Boone County Sheriff Mike Nielsen said about Jake, as those who 
are close to him called him: There will forever be a loss felt in our 
community for him. He was a warrior, and he died laying down his life 
for you. He will never be forgotten.
  Last Friday morning, 34-year-old Boone County Sheriff's Deputy Jacob 
Pickett was attempting to arrest a person who had an outstanding 
warrant. As is so common, one department helped out another, and Deputy 
Pickett joined police officers from the Lebanon Police Department in 
pursuit. During that pursuit, he was fatally shot. Tragically, he will 
never return home to his loved ones and is leaving behind a wife, Jen, 
two very young children, and his beloved K-9 partner, a German Shepherd 
named Brick.
  The last time a Boone County officer was killed in the line of duty 
was over 80 years ago, in 1935.
  Deputy Pickett also served as a Tipton County Sheriff's Department 
deputy and served at the Marion County Jail, all counties I represent 
in the Fifth District of Indiana. He has led the Boone County Sheriff's 
Department K-9 Team for the last 2 years and worked with Brick around 
the clock. He was known by his childhood friend as a good guy all 
around who was kind, compassionate, and generous. He dedicated his life 
to serving others and continues to do so even now, as an organ donor.
  As Sheriff Nielsen said, that thin blue line was crossed. I offer my 
deepest condolences to Deputy Pickett's family, to the Boone County 
Sheriff's Department and their friends, the men and women in law 
enforcement who mourn his loss and will cherish his memory forever.

                          ____________________



