

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 15 (Monday, January 22, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 15 (Monday, January 22, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H611]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       DAY THREE OF THE SHUTDOWN

  (Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute.)
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, day three of this shutdown, thousands 
and thousands of Federal employees not working. The leader of the 
Republicans in the Senate has moved with some offer that would 
hopefully be something to start with, but I applaud the Democratic 
leadership in the other body because they have been focusing on what we 
want, and that is parity, national security parity for children's 
healthcare and federally qualified health clinics and veterans.
  But the people who have imploded this, of course, are the President 
and his staff, with vulgarity and then breaking up a deal last Friday.
  So, if we are serious, we need to be able to work on what the issues 
are, and that is domestic spending to have parity to ensure that the 
families of our soldiers are, likewise, provided for.
  I support the national security needs of this Nation, as a Homeland 
Security member since the tragic and heinous terrorist act of 9/11. I 
believe national security goes with providing for their families. When 
are we going to do that and provide for innocent DREAMers who have done 
nothing but come to this country to be able to do what is right?
  Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to bring up H.R. 4872, the End 
the Shutdown Act of 2018, a continuing resolution that would 
immediately open and reopen the government with a clean CR while 
negotiations continue on a budget agreement that adheres to the parity 
and on other critical issues so that we can end the Trump shutdown.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Byrne). A unanimous consent request for 
the consideration of that measure would have to receive clearance by 
the majority and minority floor and committee leaderships. The Chair is 
unaware of such clearance; therefore, the Chair cannot entertain that 
request at this time.

                          ____________________



