

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 15 (Monday, January 22, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 15 (Monday, January 22, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H618-H620]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




             FEDERAL REGISTER PRINTING SAVINGS ACT OF 2017

  Mr. McCARTHY. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to the order of the House of 
today, I call up the bill (H.R. 195) to amend title 44, United States 
Code, to restrict the distribution of free printed copies of the 
Federal Register to Members of Congress and other officers and 
employees of the United States, and for other purposes, with the Senate 
amendment to the House amendment to the Senate amendment thereto, and 
ask for its immediate consideration.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Clerk will designate the Senate 
amendment to the House amendment to the Senate amendment.
  Senate amendment to House amendment to Senate amendment:

       On page 1, line 6, strike [February 16] and insert: 
     February 8.


                            Motion to Concur

  Mr. McCARTHY. Mr. Speaker, I have a motion at the desk.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Clerk will designate the motion.
  The text of the motion is as follows:

       Mr. McCarthy moves that the House concur in the Senate 
     amendment to the House amendment to the Senate amendment to 
     H.R. 195.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the order of the House of today, 
the motion shall be debatable for 10 minutes equally divided and 
controlled by the majority leader and minority leader or their 
respective designees.
  The gentleman from California (Mr. McCarthy) and the gentleman from 
Maryland (Mr. Hoyer) each will control 5 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California.
  Mr. McCARTHY. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 4 minutes.
  Mr. Speaker, for 3 days, the Nation has watched as tens of thousands 
of Federal employees were forced to stay home; as our men and women in 
uniform went without pay; as opioid treatment centers got cut off; and 
as parents faced the harrowing prospect that their children would lose 
their health insurance.
  The American people never wanted this to happen. Republicans in 
Congress did not want this to happen. We did everything in our power to 
make sure this didn't happen.
  The House passed a clean bill. A bipartisan majority in the Senate 
voted to pass that clean bill, but Senate Democrats shut it down.
  We were told this was about immigration, but Republicans already said 
we would sit at the table. We already were at the table every single 
day before this shutdown, negotiating in good faith. Despite this 
political drama, I remain eager to get back to the table and put this 
all behind us.
  So I must ask: What was gained here at the expense of the American 
people? What was gained at the expense of our Nation's reputation as a 
great and deliberative Republic?
  Every policy in the House's original bill, the Senate passed today. 
Every single policy is the same. If the Senate had passed this same 
bill on Friday, all this disgraceful political theater would have never 
happened.
  Now, as it always should have been, our government will open, our 
troops will be paid, and our children will have health insurance.
  But that is not enough. We cannot continue to repeat the same 
mistakes again. As my father used to tell me, it is not your mistakes 
that define you; it is what you learned from them.
  So let's commit to each other and to the American public that we will 
not continue to fund our government through these short-term CRs. Let's 
commit that we will pass through both Houses every appropriations bill 
with full funding for our troops, full funding for our defense, and 
full funding for every service our government owes to its people.
  We all know this shutdown was an embarrassment. It didn't need to 
happen. It should have never happened, and it will not happen again.
  That, Mr. Speaker, is the government that the people want, the 
government that the people need, and the government that the American 
people deserve.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 3\1/2\ minutes.
  Mr. Speaker, as I said this morning, the reason why the government 
shut down is because the Republican majority has failed to fund the 
government. They have the majority of the House, the majority of the 
Senate, and the Presidency of the United States.
  And with all due respect to my friend, the majority leader, five 
previous shutdowns were purposefully perpetrated by my Republican 
friends; the last for 16 days.
  The continuing resolution on the floor today reflects that failure. 
It does not, 9 months after we should have been done, establish the 
level of spending for this fiscal year. It is 9 months late.
  As a result, another continuing resolution may be inevitable. And in 
this resolution, we will extend the harmful effects of another CR to 
both defense and nondefense agencies for another 17 days.
  That means that Congress will be more than 4 whole months into the 
fiscal year without a budget agreement. This is dangerous, Mr. Speaker, 
both to our military and to our civilian agencies, each of which 
require budget certainty.
  Before February 8, Republicans must work with Democrats to resolve 
the issues at hand. This means working together to lift the budget caps 
in accordance with the principle of parity, which Speaker Ryan agreed 
to over the past 4 years and should continue to today and in the 
future.
  It also means working in a bipartisan, bicameral way to address the 
status of DREAMers, now that President Trump created a crisis with his 
ending of the DACA program. Congress should act responsibly to allow 
these young people to stay, as more than 80 percent of Americans 
believe should be done.
  Mr. Speaker, it requires reauthorizing community health centers and 
other critical health programs essential to complement the passage of 
the CHIP reauthorization, which is included in this CR.
  We also have a responsibility to help those impacted by the 
devastating hurricanes in Texas, Florida, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. 
Virgin Islands; those affected by the wilderness fires in California; 
and communities struggling to combat opioid abuse.
  Congress must not waste the next 17 days as it has the last 114. I 
will be voting ``no,'' Mr. Speaker, on this continuing resolution, not 
because I don't want to see it pass, but because it does not guarantee 
that Congress will address the issues that have been referenced.
  I pray that neither I nor Congress will be in this same position come 
February 8. I hope we will address in a positive manner the issues 
before us.
  I am now pleased, Mr. Speaker, to yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman 
from California (Ms. Pelosi), the minority leader.
  (Ms. PELOSI asked and was given permission to revise and extend her 
remarks.)
  Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding and I 
associate myself fully with his remarks. I thank the gentleman, Mr. 
Hoyer, for his great leadership.

  Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to the Republican's latest stopgap 
funding bill. I take great pride in House Democrats overwhelmingly 
supporting the first continuing resolution in September to give the 
majority a chance to get the job done.
  But after months of Republicans' excuses and extensions, I refuse to 
be an

[[Page H619]]

enabler to the Republicans' failures any longer.
  This past week once again exposed the utter incompetence of the 
Republican-controlled government. Here we are ending the Trump shutdown 
with Republicans' fourth stopgap short-term bill. The Republicans have 
failed to get their act together for the fourth time to fund the 
government for a full year.
  In August, Defense Secretary Mattis was asked: What would be the 
effect of another stopgap short-term spending bill on the military?
  You all know he replied: ``It just creates unpredictability. It makes 
us rigid. We cannot deal with new and revealing threats. We know our 
enemies are not standing still.''
  ``So it's about as unwise as can be.''
  Mr. Speaker, there are also other statements for the Record to that 
effect from the Navy Secretary, et cetera.
  Now, the Trump shutdown will end, but Republicans' wasteful 
incompetence continues. There is a dark cloud over the Capitol, Mr. 
Speaker: the deficit-exposing GOP tax scam, which has added nearly $2 
trillion to the national debt.
  The Republicans have made their choice: tax breaks for corporations 
and the wealthiest are more important than certainty for our military.
  Republicans control the House, the Senate, and the White House. They 
control what bills we vote on in Congress. We could have brought up a 
long-term bill long before now.

                              {time}  1745

  We have placed our suggestions on the table as to what would be on 
the domestic side of that: resources for the opioid epidemic that kills 
94 people every day in our country, for funding for veteran 
infrastructure and services, for saving millions of Americans' pensions 
in crisis today, for funding community health centers and lifesaving 
research at the NIH, for childcare for hardworking parents, for 
protecting patriotic young DREAMers, and, as our distinguished whip 
said earlier, for making sure we have the resources for those affected 
by hurricanes, fires, and especially our folks in Puerto Rico and the 
Virgin Islands.
  Because of the Republican majority's weakness, we still do not have a 
long-term spending bill that funds the military and the domestic 
investments that keep America strong. We take an oath of office to 
protect and defend. Now we have to fund that.
  We have not delivered strong disaster recovery funding to Puerto 
Rico, the Virgin Islands, and other victims of hurricanes.
  Congressional Democrats continue to propose bipartisan solutions, but 
Republicans refuse to take yes for an answer.
  We have not protected our courageous young DREAMers. Not only should 
we protect them, we should embrace them and value them. We should be 
grateful for the inspiration they are to America.
  This is about meeting the needs of the American people. It is also 
about honoring the values that have made our Nation a beacon to the 
world.
  Today we end the Trump shutdown, but it does not diminish our 
leverage or our determination on the Democratic side to meet the needs 
of the American people. Democrats are united in our determination to 
get the job done. We are unified for a better deal, better jobs, better 
pay, and a better future.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge a ``no'' vote.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to Republicans' latest stop-gap 
funding bill.
  I take great pride in House Democrats overwhelming support for the 
first continuing resolution in September.
  But after months of Republican excuses and extensions, I refuse to 
enable Republicans' failure any longer.
  The past week has once again exposed the utter incompetence of 
Republican-controlled government.
  Here we are, ending the Trump shutdown with Republicans' 4th stop-
gap, short-term bill; the 4th time Republicans have failed to get their 
act together to fund the government for a full year.
  In August, Defense Secretary Mattis was asked: what would be the 
effect of another stop-gap, short term spending bill on the military?
  ``It just creates unpredictability,'' he said. `` It makes us rigid. 
We cannot deal with new and revealing threats. We know our enemies are 
not standing still . . . So it's about as unwise as can be.''
  Navy Secretary Richard Spencer has said: ``We have put $4 billion in 
a trash can, poured lighter fluid on it, and burned it . . . Four 
billion is enough to buy a squadron of F-35s, two Arleigh Burke-class 
destroyers, 3,000 Harpoon missiles. It's enough money to buy us 
additional capacity that we need. Instead, it's lost, because of 
inefficacy in the ways of the continuing resolution.''
  Now, the Trump shutdown will end, but Republicans' wasteful 
incompetence continues.
  There's a dark cloud over the Capitol: the deficit-exploding GOP tax 
scam--which has added nearly 2 trillion to the debt.
  Republicans made their choice: tax breaks for corporations and the 
wealthiest were more important than certainty for our military.
  Republicans control the House, the Senate and the White House--they 
control what bills we vote on in the Congress.
  So, my colleagues, why haven't we voted:
  For resources for the opioid epidemic that kills 94 people every day?
  For funding our veterans' infrastructure and services?
  For saving the millions of American pensions in crisis today?
  For funding community health centers & lifesaving research at NIH?
  For child care for hard-working parents?
  For protecting patriotic young DREAMers?
  Why were tax breaks for billionaires and corporations so urgent?
  120 days after allowing CHIP to expire, Republicans suddenly claim to 
care about children on CHIP--but only as part of a cruel Sophie's 
choice to pit sick children against DREAMers fearful for their future.
  Because of the Republican Majority's weakness, we still do not have a 
long-term spending bill that funds the military and the domestic 
investments that keep our nation strong.
  We have not delivered strong disaster recovery funding for Puerto 
Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands and other victims of hurricanes and 
wildfires.
  Congressional Democrats continue to propose bipartisan solutions. But 
Republicans refuse to take yes for an answer!
  We have not yet protected our courageous young DREAMers. Not only 
should we protect them, we should embrace them--value them. We should 
be grateful for the inspiration they are to America.
  This is about meeting the needs of the American people. This is about 
honor the values that make our nation a beacon to the world.
  Today, we end the Trump shutdown, but it does not diminish our 
leverage or our determination to meet the needs of the American people.
  Democrats are unified in our determination to get the job done. We 
are unified for our Better Deal: Better Jobs, Better Wages, Better 
Future. And our fight continues.
  Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, we have 10\1/2\ days remaining before we have 
another crisis in funding our government. Those are legislative days. 
We have more calendar days. Let us try to use every one of those days 
to reach agreement on funding the government so we don't have another 
CR, which all of us believe is bad fiscal policy and substantive 
policy.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge us to come together so that we can avoid another 
crisis like this and address the issues that we know need to be 
addressed.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. McCARTHY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
Wisconsin (Mr. Ryan), the Speaker of the House.
  (Mr. RYAN of Wisconsin asked and was given permission to revise and 
extend his remarks.)
  Mr. RYAN of Wisconsin. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for 
yielding.
  Mr. Speaker, I just want to say a few words about the last couple of 
days.
  I know there is great relief that this episode is coming to an end. 
This shutdown did not need to happen. However brief, it inflicted 
needless costs on the country.
  There are no winners here today--I want to make that clear--no 
winners except for, perhaps, the millions of families who depend on the 
Children's Health Insurance Program. Soon the longest reauthorization 
in the program's history is about to become law.
  But this is not a moment to pat ourselves on the back, not even 
close. We very much need to heed the lessons of what just happened 
here.
  We need to move forward in good faith: yes, on DACA and immigration 
and, yes, on funding our military so that it gets the resources that 
our military so badly needs. Let's address these urgent challenges.
  Finally, I think all of us want to join in thanking the men and women 
who

[[Page H620]]

serve in our Armed Forces and who serve in our government around the 
country and around the globe. They and their families are the ones that 
kind of get caught up in things like this. For them, these aren't 
political debates; they are livelihoods.
  The country's safety and security depend on responsible governing. 
That is why I sincerely hope that we never find ourselves in this 
position again.
  I thank all of our Members for their patience this week.
  Mr. McCARTHY. Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time for debate has expired.
  Pursuant to the order of the House of today, the previous question is 
ordered.
  The question is on the motion by the gentleman from California (Mr. 
McCarthy).
  The question was taken; and the Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it.
  Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--yeas 266, 
nays 150, not voting 14, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 44]

                               YEAS--266

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Bera
     Bergman
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (GA)
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Bustos
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carbajal
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Cartwright
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cohen
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Connolly
     Cook
     Cooper
     Costa
     Costello (PA)
     Courtney
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Crist
     Cuellar
     Culberson
     Curbelo (FL)
     Curtis
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Delaney
     DelBene
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Diaz-Balart
     Donovan
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foster
     Foxx
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Garamendi
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Goodlatte
     Gottheimer
     Gowdy
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Graves (MO)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Hanabusa
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Heck
     Hensarling
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Kaptur
     Katko
     Keating
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     Kilmer
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kuster (NH)
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Langevin
     Larson (CT)
     Latta
     Lawson (FL)
     Lewis (MN)
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Long
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     Lynch
     MacArthur
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Meehan
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mullin
     Murphy (FL)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Nolan
     Norman
     Nunes
     O'Halleran
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perlmutter
     Perry
     Peterson
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Posey
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (NY)
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Roskam
     Ross
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Scalise
     Schneider
     Schweikert
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, Austin
     Scott, David
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Sewell (AL)
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Sinema
     Slaughter
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tipton
     Trott
     Turner
     Upton
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                               NAYS--150

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Amash
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Beyer
     Biggs
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Cardenas
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Correa
     Crowley
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     DeLauro
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Gomez
     Gosar
     Green, Al
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hastings
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kind
     Krishnamoorthi
     Larsen (WA)
     Lawrence
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Massie
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meeks
     Meng
     Mooney (WV)
     Moore
     Moulton
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Norcross
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Peters
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Richmond
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Rush
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schrader
     Serrano
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sires
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth

                             NOT VOTING--14

     Amodei
     Barton
     Bridenstine
     Burgess
     Carson (IN)
     Cummings
     Garrett
     Granger
     Green, Gene
     Herrera Beutler
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Jones
     Valadao


                Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (during the vote). There are 2 minutes 
remaining.

                              {time}  1809

  So the motion to concur was agreed to.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.
  Stated for:
  Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER. Mr. Speaker, I was detained in a traffic 
security line trying to get in to vote. Had I been present, I would 
have voted ``yea'' on rollcall No. 44.
  Mr. VALADAO. Mr. Speaker, on Monday, January 22, 2018, I missed the 
vote because I was attending the funeral of a family member in 
California. Had I been present, I would have voted ``yea'' on rollcall 
No. 44.
  Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, had I been present, I would have voted 
``yea'' on rollcall No. 44.
  Stated against:
  Mr. CARSON of Indiana. Mr. Speaker, on January 22, 2018, I missed 
rollcall vote No. 44 because of illness. Had I been present, I would 
have voted ``no''.

                          ____________________



