

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 20 (Tuesday, January 30, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 20 (Tuesday, January 30, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S575]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                      TRIBUTE TO MICHAEL WETHERBEE

 Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this week I have the honor of 
recognizing Sheridan School Superintendent Micheal Wetherbee for his 
commitment to students' success. Mike was recently honored with the 
2017 Montana Association of Agricultural Educators' Administrator of 
the Year award, as well as the 2017 Montana Association of Career and 
Technical Education's Administrator of the Year award.
  Mike came out of retirement to serve as superintendent when he saw 
there was a need in the community. When STEM and STEAM learning were 
just getting a foothold in education, Mike wanted to be sure the school 
would be on the frontlines. With buy-in from the community, Sheridan 
Schools are becoming well known for putting kids on a path to success 
through hands-on learning and experiences. In fact, high school 
students are now teaching fourth graders how to code. In Mike's own 
words, ``We've got it going on academically.''
  When asked about the awards, Mike is much more interested in talking 
about what the school is doing to build a great FFA program and 
thriving business department. What excites him the most about these 
programs, which he has been recognized for, are the opportunities they 
provide students to leave Sheridan High School and become successful in 
other places. Mike, who grew up in Montana, understands what service to 
the community means, and he is doing it every day by building up the 
students in Sheridan schools.
  Thanks, Mike, for your continued work to shape Montana kids into the 
bright leaders of Montana's future.

                          ____________________



