

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 11 (Thursday, January 18, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 11 (Thursday, January 18, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S265-S266]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                               TAX REFORM

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, on another matter, Saturday will mark 1 
year since President Trump's inauguration--a year spent working with 
Republicans to roll back runaway regulations, stand up for veterans, 
fund our troops, strengthen national security, and pass once-in-a-
generation tax reform.
  Today, unemployment is at its lowest level in over a decade. 
According to Gallup, the American people are more optimistic about 
their job prospects than they have been in 17 years. And just 
yesterday, the Dow Jones closed above 26,000 for the first time in 
history.
  The engine of American free enterprise is the American people, and 
when government gets out of the way and helps provide the conditions 
for growth, good things happen.
  Just yesterday, Apple--the highest valued public company in the 
world--announced a plan to create more than 20,000 new jobs and invest 
$30 billion in new capital right here in our country. As a direct 
result of tax reform, Apple will pay special bonuses worth $2,500 to 
employees and begin to repatriate the $250 billion in cash it has been 
holding overseas. Let me repeat that. Billions and billions of dollars 
are coming back to America because Republicans passed historic tax 
reform and gave us a 21st-century tax code. This will have an impact 
not just in Silicon Valley but all across the country. In Harrodsburg, 
KY, Corning employs hundreds of people in a high-tech facility. It 
partners with Apple to manufacture the special glass used in iPhones 
and iPads. This glass is made in Kentucky.
  Republicans in the House and Senate passed tax reform without a 
single Democratic vote, although I certainly hope our folks across the 
aisle will celebrate the new jobs in their States and the new 
opportunities that are already being created for their constituents. We 
know that when Washington gets

[[Page S266]]

out of the way, American workers and job creators can do what they do 
best. The results are speaking for themselves.

                          ____________________



