

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 46 (Thursday, March 15, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 46 (Thursday, March 15, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H1646]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                             MAPLE WEEKEND

  (Ms. TENNEY asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend her remarks.)
  Ms. TENNEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize an exciting spring 
tradition in upstate New York and, particularly, the 22nd Congressional 
District.
  Vernon-Verona-Sherrill School District, or VVS, is holding its Maple 
Weekend this coming weekend. Maple Weekend is run for two weekends each 
year by the Future Farmers of America, also known as FFA. This FFA 
organization has approximately 125 members, and its success has been 
recognized both on the State and national levels.
  Despite the two nor'easters that New York has received in March 
alone, VVS' FFA organization has worked tirelessly to prepare for the 
upcoming maple season. This weekend, VVS will join 170 other local 
organizations across New York to prepare demonstrations on how to 
harvest and produce maple syrup products, host pancake breakfasts which 
feature our award-winning syrup, and provide tours of the mouthwatering 
``sugar shack,'' where maple products are created.
  Last year, VVS' Maple Weekend extravaganza drew more than 2,000 
visitors. I am thrilled to attend each year and to take part in this 
educational and delicious local event that is expertly organized each 
year by high school students from FFA.
  These same FFA members from VVS travel throughout New York State, 
from Buffalo to New York City, using their Maple Syrup Trailer to 
educate other high school students across our State, teaching them how 
to produce maple syrup and to produce maple candies and other delicious 
maple products.
  New York State still produces the very best maple syrup in the world 
and is continually winning the award for the best maple syrup.
  I would like to congratulate these outstanding VVS and FFA students 
on their hard work, and I wish them and the hundreds of other maple 
producers across the State the best of luck during this very difficult 
season for maple production.

                          ____________________



