

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 47 (Monday, March 19, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 47 (Monday, March 19, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H1655]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        NATIONAL PHYSICIANS WEEK

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Kansas (Mr. Marshall) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, March 25 through March 31 is National 
Physicians Week. As a practicing physician for nearly 30 years, I would 
like to use my time today to acknowledge the dedicated doctors 
nationwide who devote their lives to providing quality care for our 
patients.
  I am so thankful for the doctors who have led the charge to observe a 
week dedicated to our Nation's physicians, and especially thanks to Dr. 
Kimberly Jackson. Dr. Jackson is a true pioneer for the medical 
profession. In June of 2015, she founded the Physicians Working 
Together organization. This group was created to bring physicians 
together from a broad spectrum of specialties. Dr. Jackson then, just 1 
year later, established the last week in March as National Physicians 
Week.
  This year's celebration will include a physician-led virtual 
conference hosted by the Physicians Working Together group. The 
conference is available for free and will provide physicians with 
valuable ways to improve their everyday practice. The virtual sessions 
will also highlight ways that physicians can take action in policy 
through advocacy groups and navigate the world of politics. I encourage 
my friends in the medical industry to tune in.
  As an obstetrician/gynecologist, I have had the privilege of building 
relationships with patients that I will always hold dear to my heart. 
There is nothing quite like watching a family grow before your eyes and 
having a hand in their healthy growing.
  Although government regulations piled on over the years have 
continued to make it difficult to build and nurture these 
relationships, my patients have become no less important nor less of a 
priority to me. I know this to be the case for many other doctors 
throughout the Nation.
  During my time practicing medicine in Great Bend, Kansas, I had the 
opportunity to work alongside many fellow physicians who practice with 
a level of care that I want for my own family, physicians who are more 
than deserving of a week of appreciation. So please take a few moments 
to show your support for your local physicians.
  For more information regarding the conference, I would ask you to 
check out the National Physicians Week Facebook page, or look at my own 
social media pages for more ways to spread the word.

                          ____________________



