

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 30 (Thursday, February 15, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 30 (Thursday, February 15, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1150-S1151]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
proceed to the en bloc consideration of the following nominations: 
Executive Calendar Nos. 590, 591, 643, 644, 682, and 683.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

[[Page S1151]]

  The clerk will report the nominations en bloc.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read the nominations of Norman 
Euell Arflack, of Kentucky, to be United States Marshal for the Eastern 
District of Kentucky for the term of four years; Ted G. Kamatchus, of 
Iowa, to be United States Marshal for the Southern District of Iowa for 
the term of four years; Michael T. Baylous, of West Virginia, to be 
United States Marshal for the Southern District of West Virginia for 
the term of four years; Daniel R. McKittrick, of Mississippi, to be 
United States Marshal for the Northern District of Mississippi for the 
term of four years; David G. Jolley, of Tennessee, to be United States 
Marshal for the Eastern District of Tennessee for the term of four 
years; and Thomas M. Griffin, Jr., of South Carolina, to be United 
States Marshal for the District of South Carolina for the term of four 
years.
  Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to consider the nominations en bloc.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
vote on the nominations en bloc with no intervening action or debate; 
that if confirmed, the motions to reconsider be considered made and 
laid upon the table en bloc; that the President be immediately notified 
of the Senate's action; that no further motions be in order; and that 
any statements relating to the nominations be printed in the Record.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The question is, Will the Senate advise and consent to the Arflack, 
Kamatchus, Baylous, McKittrick, Jolley, and Griffin nominations en 
bloc?
  The nominations were confirmed en bloc.

                          ____________________



