

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 6 (Wednesday, January 10, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 6 (Wednesday, January 10, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H112]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     HONORING CONGRESSMAN DON YOUNG

  (Ms. PELOSI asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.)
  Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I rise to join our distinguished Speaker in 
honoring Congressman Don Young, who ascends to the position of dean of 
the U.S. House of Representatives following nearly 45 years of proud 
service on behalf of the people of Alaska. Congressman Young also holds 
the distinction of serving as the first dean of the House from the 
Republican Party in 80 years.
  Congratulations.
  On behalf of the Democratic Caucus, I extend my congratulations to 
Don; his wife, Anne; and his entire family.
  Despite our differences, it is clear that Don cares deeply about our 
Nation. Don serves because, in his words, he is ``enthusiastic about 
meeting people and trying to solve their problems.''
  As a former teacher, he is an advocate for quality education for all. 
As a former U.S. Army tank operator, he believes in ensuring that 
servicemembers, families, and veterans have the care they have earned. 
In honor of his late, beloved wife, Lu Young, he has been a champion 
for the Native children of Alaska.
  The motto of the State of Alaska is ``North to the future.'' In his 
commitment to progress and better futures for the people of Alaska, Don 
honors those words.
  The dean of the House has the honor of administering to the Speaker, 
as the Speaker indicated, the oath of office, which begins: ``I will 
support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all 
enemies, foreign and domestic.'' As dean, Congressman Young will now 
have the special responsibility not only of defending the Constitution, 
but of defending the integrity and dignity of this institution, which 
he has done all along.
  Following in the footsteps of great leaders before him--Sam Rayburn, 
John Quincy Adams, Carl Vinson--it is now Don's solemn duty to help 
foster a climate of civility in the Congress and to hold our colleagues 
accountable for behavior beneath the standards of this body.
  I told Don I would tell you this story when I just congratulated him. 
He has been very helpful to us in making the Presidio go from an Army 
post to a special kind of national park. I hope he considers 
establishing the Presidio in San Francisco part of his legacy. We would 
love to welcome him and honor him in San Francisco anytime he is ready 
for that.
  But in the course of our conversations over those times, I noticed 
one day that Don had on this beautiful tie. It had a bald eagle and a 
baby seal on it. It had these beautiful animals on it. I said: Don, 
what a lovely, beautiful environmental tie you have on.
  He said: I call it lunch.
  Again, we know that Don Young will always honor the important 
obligations, as he always has, and now his new obligation as dean of 
the House of Representatives. That is historic.
  I congratulate him and thank him for his service.

                          ____________________



