

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 15 (Monday, January 22, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 15 (Monday, January 22, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H612]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




             SOUTH CAROLINA NATIONAL GUARD DESERVES BETTER

  (Mr. WILSON of South Carolina asked and was given permission to 
address the House for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr. Speaker, this weekend, South 
Carolinians saw the damaging impacts of the Schumer shutdown: 2,200 
servicemembers in the South Carolina National Guard who had drill 
scheduled were forced to go home after driving across the State from 
all over the Southeast. I know firsthand of the disruption, as a Guard 
veteran myself and grateful dad of three sons who have served in the 
Guard overseas.
  Additionally, 70 soldiers who were operating on Active Duty 
Operational Support orders had their orders terminated and will no 
longer have insurance or income as of today. Approximately 750 Federal 
technicians who handle mechanics for the South Carolina National Guard 
will be laid off today.
  This is not only devastating to families, it will negatively impact 
the readiness of our forces, which I recognize as chairman of the 
Readiness Subcommittee. The Guard has 80 soldiers who were planning to 
attend necessary training this weekend, but those drills have been 
canceled, resulting in soldiers not being qualified or eligible for 
promotion due to missing training.
  This serves as a sad example of just the impact on the South Carolina 
Guard members. Senate Democrats need to stop holding military funding 
hostage.
  In conclusion, God bless our troops, and we will never forget 
September the 11th in the global war on terrorism.

                          ____________________



