

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 58 (Wednesday, April 11, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 58 (Wednesday, April 11, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S2070]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




             40TH ANNIVERSARY OF COASTAL ENTERPRISES, INC.

 Mr. KING. Mr. President, today, I wish to recognize the 40th 
anniversary of Coastal Enterprises, Inc., CEI. Headquartered in 
Brunswick, ME, CEI is a national leader in rural economic development, 
helping to grow businesses and support communities through providing 
financing assistance and support for environmentally sustainable 
practices to increase prosperity in Maine and across the country. CEI 
provides loans and technical assistance to small businesses and 
community development stakeholders while simultaneously advancing 
changes in public policy to promote an environment ripe for economic 
growth.
  Since its founding, CEI has been a mission-driven organization, 
striving to enable all people, especially those from low-income 
backgrounds, to reach their full potential. With a joint focus on 
economic growth and environmental health, CEI has tirelessly worked for 
40 years to create a Maine economy that is sustainable both for our 
citizens and our land.
  CEI's immense impact is undisputed; since inception, they have 
financed $1.32 billion dollars' worth of loans, helping over 2,700 
businesses. These companies often provide the backbone of their 
communities, in total employing over 37,000 people. Furthermore, CEI 
has been instrumental in the areas of affordable housing and childcare. 
Through their investments, they have created or preserved 2,075 
affordable housing units and 5,818 childcare slots, providing much-
needed relief for families.
  The success of the last 40 years speaks to the vision of the founders 
and the dedication of CEI's employees. We are lucky to have Coastal 
Enterprises, Inc., in our State, and I wish to congratulate them on 
their 40th anniversary. I am looking forward to watching the positive 
impacts of CEI's work for years to come.

                          ____________________



