

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 50 (Thursday, March 22, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 50 (Thursday, March 22, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1945]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      TRIBUTE TO LILLIEMARIE GORE

 Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, today I recognize Lilliemarie Gore, 
the Alachua County Teacher of the Year from Idylwild Elementary School 
in Gainesville, FL.
  When Lilliemarie was named Teacher of the Year, she thanked two of 
her own teachers who played important roles in her life, Mrs. Jackson 
and Mrs. Gloria Jean Merriex. Mrs. Jackson was her third-grade teacher 
who inspired her to use education as a vehicle to escape the tough 
Miami neighborhood where she grew up. Mrs. Merriex was a teacher 
Lilliemarie worked with at Duval Elementary School who was known for 
using rhymes, music, and other innovative techniques to teach math to 
students.
  While Lilliemarie learned about teaching concepts and theories in 
college, she said the 4 years of mentoring by Gloria taught her the 
fundamentals of teaching. Lilliemarie says teaching starts with having 
a genuine love for students and believes that, when the children know 
you love them, they are willing to jump through hoops to do whatever 
needs to be done. She loves her kids with everything she has, and they 
know she loves them.
  Lilliemarie attended the University of Florida and earned degrees in 
early elementary and special education. She is a fourth-grade teacher 
at Idylwild Elementary School and has been an Alachua County Public 
School teacher for 5 years.
  I would like to extend my sincere thanks and appreciation to 
Lilliemarie for all the fine work she has done and wish her continued 
success in the years to come.

                          ____________________



