

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 57 (Tuesday, April 10, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 57 (Tuesday, April 10, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S2044]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I have 7 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


                      committee on armed services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, April 10, 2018, at 9:30 a.m. to 
conduct a hearing.


           Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, April 10, 2018, at 
2:15 p.m. to conduct a hearing entitled ``Facebook, Social Media 
Privacy, and the Use and Abuse of Data.''


                       Committee on the Judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, April 10, 2018, at 2:15 p.m. to 
conduct a hearing entitled ``Facebook, Social Media Privacy, and Use 
and Abuse of Data''.


            Committee Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

  The Committee Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, April 10, 2018, at 
2:30 p.m. to conduct a hearing on the nomination of Sharon Fast 
Gustafson, of Virginia, to be General Counsel of the Equal Employment 
Opportunity Commission.


                    Select Committee on Intelligence

  The Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, April 10, 2018, at 2:30 p.m. to 
conduct a hearing.


              Subcommittee on Clean Air and Nuclear Safety

  The Subcommittee on Clean Air and Nuclear Safety of the Committee on 
Environment and Public Works is authorized to meet during the session 
of the Senate on Tuesday, April 10, 2018, at 10 a.m. to conduct a 
hearing entitled ``Cooperative Federalism Under the Clean Air Act: 
State Perspectives.''


   Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere, Transnational Crime, Civilian 
      Security, Democracy, Human Rights, and Global Women's Issues

  The Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere, Transnational Crime, Civilian 
Security, Democracy, Human Rights, and Global Women's Issues of the 
Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the session 
of the Senate on Tuesday, April 10, 2018, at 2 p.m. to conduct a 
hearing entitled ``Summit of the Americas: A Regional Strategy for 
Democratic Governance Against Corruption in the Hemisphere.''

                          ____________________



