

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 38 (Monday, March 5, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 38 (Monday, March 5, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1337]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

        TRIBUTE TO CAITLIN ``KATIE'' BRAND AND RECOGNIZING UCWIP

 Mr. CRAPO. Mr. President, today I wish to honor the Uni-
Capitol Washington Internship Programme, UCWIP. Our Nation has 
benefited from the service of outstanding Australian college students 
who participate in internships throughout the U.S. Congress through 
this program.
  The program provides students with the opportunity to obtain 
considerable experience through their congressional internships, while 
also making available other educational experiences throughout their 
time in the U.S. Uni-Capitol Washington Programme interns have helped 
me serve Idaho constituents, and I am grateful for their efforts and 
dedication.
  Caitlin ``Katie'' Brand, a UCWIP participant, joined my staff as an 
intern this semester. Katie is studying a double bachelor of commerce, 
accounting, and law with a diploma of languages, Mandarin, at Monash 
University. Upon completion of her degree, Katie intends to pursue a 
career in either the international relations, finance, or banking 
fields. Katie has been a pleasure to have on my staff and quickly 
adapted to her role and responsibilities in the office. Her eager and 
intelligent demeanor have allowed Katie to put forth her best work in 
helping to advance crucial work for Idahoans. I commend the level of 
professionalism Katie exhibits in every office interaction. She has 
shared with us some of the political and cultural differences between 
the U.S. and Australia, and it has been a great learning experience for 
both Katie and the staff.
  ``Being part of the UCWIP program and working in Senator Mike Crapo's 
office was an invaluable experience,'' Katie has said about her 
experiences in Washington. ``The opportunity has afforded me 
unparalleled insight into the world's foremost legislative body and 
enriched my professional development, including opportunities beyond 
what I imagined, such as attending the State of the Union as the 
Senator's guest. I want to wholeheartedly thank Senator Crapo and the 
staff in Senator Crapo's office who have made my internship so 
enjoyable and educational.''
  Eric Federing, UCWIP's director and founder, has successfully focused 
his Capitol Hill and Australia experiences to provide this valuable 
educational exchange opportunity that benefits Australian students and 
congressional offices. His dedication to advancing this learning 
experience is remarkable.
  I have been honored to have worked with the Uni-Capitol Washington 
Internship Programme for several years. The program is shaping young 
leaders who are helping to deepen understanding between our two nations 
while providing outstanding constituent support. I commend Katie Brand, 
Eric Federing, and the other Uni-Capitol Washington Internship 
Programme participants and interns for their achievements and wish them 
continued success.

                          ____________________



