

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 35 (Tuesday, February 27, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 35 (Tuesday, February 27, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H1320]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     TRIBUTE TO MARIA DELITHA GREEN

  (Mr. ROTHFUS asked and was given permission to address the House for 
1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. ROTHFUS. Mr. Speaker, as Black History Month draws to a close, I 
wanted to recognize one of my constituents who left her own mark on 
history.
  Just 2 days ago, on February 25, 2018, Beaver County lost one of its 
treasures. A Mississippi native and alumni of Viterbo University in La 
Crosse, Wisconsin, Maria Delitha Green, fondly known as Dee, received a 
registered nursing license from the St. Francis School of Nursing in 
1954. In 1955, she moved to Beaver Falls, Pennsylvania, where she was 
hired on at Providence Hospital as the first African-American 
registered nurse in Beaver County. Eventually, she was promoted to head 
nurse.
  Dee faced many obstacles as an African-American nurse in the 1950s, 
such as the reality of segregated dormitory housing. However, she did 
not let those barriers discourage her, believing that people would 
accept her for who she was.
  A trailblazer and diligent worker, Dee loved her job and continued 
her career as a nurse for 36 years, until she retired in 1990. She was 
a blessing to those with whom she came in contact and remained a 
caregiver until her health declined at the end of 2017. We are grateful 
for her decades of exemplary service and the outstanding model that she 
was.
  May God grant her eternal rest, and may her family be consoled with 
many blessed memories.

                          ____________________



