

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 216 (Wednesday, January 3, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 216 (Wednesday, January 3, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S21]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         TRIBUTE TO MATT MARTIN

  Mr. TILLIS. Madam President, today I wish to recognize Matt Martin 
and congratulate him on his investiture as the U.S. attorney for the 
Middle District of North Carolina.
  Matt earned his law degree and undergraduate degree from the 
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, both with the highest 
honors. Listed as one of North Carolina's ``Super Lawyers,'' Matt has 
extensive legal experience. Matt was an associate at Covington & 
Burling here in DC before moving back to Raleigh, NC, where he became 
partner at Smith Anderson. Most recently, Matt worked as the associate 
general counsel for Duke Energy.
  In addition to a sterling career in private practice, Matt 
exemplifies what it means to be a community servant. He has served on 
the board of directors for a number of philanthropic organizations, 
including the Food Bank of Central and Eastern North Carolina, Meals on 
Wheels of Wake County, the Youth Life Foundation of the Triangle, and 
the Marbles Kids Museum. Additionally, he served as chairman of the 
Wake County Planning Board in Wake County, NC.
  Finally, Matt is actively engaged in leading the next generation of 
attorneys. As a member of the North Carolina Bar Association's 
professionalism committee, Matt works on legal education programs and 
coaches law students and junior attorneys through internship programs 
and formal and informal mentoring.
  It was an honor to join Senator Burr in recommending Matt Martin to 
President Trump. He is a dedicated professional who has extensive legal 
knowledge and expertise. In addition, he is widely respected in the 
legal profession and the North Carolina community at large. I know that 
Matt will excel in leading the U.S. attorney's office.

                          ____________________



