

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 56 (Monday, April 9, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 56 (Monday, April 9, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2011-S2012]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       REMEMBERING SHANE QUILLING

 Mr. HELLER. Mr. President, today I wish to memorialize Shane 
Quilling, Carson High School's physical education teacher and head 
football and softball coach who unexpectedly passed away at the age of 
53.
  Remembered as a compassionate teacher and coach, Mr. Quilling's loss 
will have a profound impact on Carson High School and the greater 
Carson community. As the Reno Gazette Journal recently noted, Coach 
Quilling's ``main goal in life was to help make everybody a better 
person, to strive for their best, no matter what they did in life.''
  Born in Sidney, MT, Mr. Quilling attended Sidney High School, where 
he was a football, track, and basketball athlete. After graduating from 
high school, he studied at Montana State University-Bozeman on a 
football scholarship where he helped lead the

[[Page S2012]]

football team to a Division 1-AA national championship title in 1985. 
Following his college graduation, Mr. Quilling began his coaching and 
teaching career in Montana, as well as at high schools in Denver, CO, 
San Antonio, TX, and Roy, UT. Before coming to Carson City in 2000, Mr. 
Quilling also worked at Box Elder High School for 7 years in Brigham, 
UT, where he won several regional championships and a State 
championship in 1995.
  As Nevada's senior U.S. Senator, I know that Mr. Quilling will be 
sorely missed by the thousands of students and athletes he came across 
and mentored during his career. My thoughts and prayers go out to his 
three children, family, and loved ones during this difficult 
time.

                          ____________________



