

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 11 (Thursday, January 18, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 11 (Thursday, January 18, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H485-H486]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    RECOGNIZING DR. TIMOTHY M. BLOCK

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Fitzpatrick) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize my 
constituent Dr. Timothy M. Block, president of the Hepatitis B 
Foundation, Baruch S. Blumberg Institute of Living Science, and the 
Pennsylvania Biotechnology Center in my district in Doylestown, 
Pennsylvania.
  Dr. Block was recently named as a fellow of the U.S. National Academy 
of Inventors. Being elected as a NAI fellow is the highest professional 
recognition for academic inventors who have

[[Page H486]]

shown a lifelong commitment to innovation, specifically by facilitating 
or creating inventions that make a measurable impact on quality of 
life, economic development, or the welfare of society.
  Dr. Block is being recognized for his contributions to therapeutic 
drug and biomarker of disease screening and discovery. He also holds 
numerous patents and has been involved in more than 30 years in viral 
hepatitis research.
  Mr. Speaker, we thank Dr. Block for the work that he has done in this 
field, which has undoubtedly impacted the people in my district, 
throughout our country, and around the world.


               Recognizing Archbishop Wood Football Team

  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize the players, staff, 
and coaches of the Archbishop Wood football team and congratulate them 
on winning the PIAA Class 5A State championship. With their discipline 
and hard work, the young men of this football team have continued a 
tradition of excellence for the Vikings. The dominance they displayed 
in their championship win in December is an excellent example of what 
teamwork and tenacity can achieve. They have made our community very 
proud.
  To the coaching staff, we say congratulations and thank you for 
leading and teaching these young men. It is my hope that the lessons of 
determination and perseverance that these student athletes have learned 
will help guide them off the field as well.
  To the fans, friends, and family that have supported Archbishop Wood, 
we say congratulations. To all those who work with and support 
organized youth sports in our district, we say thank you.

                          ____________________



