

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 43 (Monday, March 12, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 43 (Monday, March 12, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1626]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




          50TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE INTERNATIONAL BACCALAUREATE

  Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize the 50th 
anniversary of the founding of the International Baccalaureate, which 
has made significant contributions to educating students around the 
world.
  In 2018, the IB celebrates 50 years of a curriculum that prioritizes 
critical thinking skills with a focus on international mindfulness. 
This organization pioneered a movement of international education in 
1968 that now offers four high-quality, diverse and challenging 
educational program for students aged 3 to 19 years old. Through a 
unique curriculum of high academic standards, the IB program emphasizes 
critical thinking and flexibility of learning by intertwining 
disciplines across cultural and national boundaries. The IB currently 
works with more than 1.4 million students in over 4,775 schools in 153 
countries.
  The IB's founders sought to create a program with a multinational 
approach to scholarship that would help young people develop the 
skills, values, and knowledge necessary to build a more peaceful 
future. The program inspires young people to become lifelong learners, 
using their energy, conviction, and positivity to engage with 
increasingly complex and interconnected global issues. Its program is 
highly respected, as the best universities in the world actively seek 
out IB students because of their experience with IB's crossdisciplinary 
and crosscultural approach. IB alumni are equipped with the skills and 
mindset needed to succeed and to approach challenges in innovative and 
effective ways.
  The International Baccalaureate is one of the world's leading 
educational initiatives. I am honored that the IB Global Centre is 
located in Maryland and am delighted to recognize IB's achievements and 
the profound contributions it has made to education throughout the 
world.

                          ____________________



