

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 57 (Tuesday, April 10, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 57 (Tuesday, April 10, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S2034]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       TRIBUTE TO MAXINE T. BELL

 Mr. CRAPO. Mr. President, my colleague Senator Jim Risch joins 
me today in honoring Idaho State Representative Maxine T. Bell, of 
Jerome, ID, for her 30 years of serving in the Idaho House of 
Representatives.
  Maxine has been an instrumental leader through economic challenges 
and an excellent role model for those interested in government service. 
She was first elected to the Idaho House of Representatives in 1988 and 
has represented the people of Jerome, Cassia, Minidoka, and rural Twin 
Falls Counties throughout her time in the Idaho statehouse. She also 
operated a family farm with her husband, Jack, and was a librarian at 
the Jerome Junior High School. In the State legislature, she has served 
as vice chairman of the agricultural affairs committee, as a member of 
the resources-conservation committee, as chairman of the appropriations 
committee, and as joint chairman of the joint finance and 
appropriations committee. Throughout her career, she has been known as 
someone who brings people together, works hard, and gets things done.
  It is no wonder that Maxine Bell has received numerous awards for her 
distinguished service. These recognitions include being honored 
multiple times as the Farm Bureau's Friend of Agriculture, Ag All Star 
by farm organizations, Legislator of the Year by the Idaho Association 
of Soil Conservation Districts, Co-operatives Friend, Advocate of the 
Year from the Idaho Career Development Association, and Legislator of 
the Year by the Idaho Library Association. She also received Idaho 
State University's President's Medallion, the Idaho Professional 
Technical Education Distinguished Service Award, and many other honors.
  She is recognized as a strong, solution-driven leader who makes 
things happen. Her congenial demeanor, quick wit, and keen intellect 
are just a few of the traits that have made her so beloved and 
effective over the years. Idahoans have been fortunate to have 
Representative Bell's leadership in the legislature. We thank Maxine 
Bell for her outstanding service, congratulate her on her exemplary 
career, and wish her well as she concludes her service in the State 
legislature.

                          ____________________



