

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 58 (Wednesday, April 11, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 58 (Wednesday, April 11, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H3101]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    RECOGNIZING DR. WILLIE J. HAGAN

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
California (Ms. Barragan) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. BARRAGAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in recognition of Dr. Willie 
J. Hagan, who is retiring after a storied career as an educator and, 
most recently, served as president of the California State University 
Dominguez Hills, which is in California's 44th Congressional District. 
I am also proud that he is able to join us today in this Chamber.
  Dr. Hagan began his career at the University of Connecticut, where he 
earned a Ph.D. in psychology before moving to southern California to 
become the vice president of administration at Cal State Fullerton. 
During his time there, he somehow found time to earn a master of fine 
arts in screenwriting from UCLA and also to write a screenplay.
  During his tenure at Cal State Dominguez Hills, Dr. Hagan worked 
tirelessly to advance the goals of the university by providing quality 
education, scholarship opportunities, and services that have been truly 
transformative.
  Under Dr. Hagan's leadership, Cal State Dominguez Hills experienced 
continuous growth in graduation rates, enrollment, tenure-track faculty 
appointments, and enhanced student services, while bringing distinction 
to the university. Dr. Hagan led an unwavering commitment to students' 
success, which promoted highly impactful student-focused initiatives.
  Dr. Hagan is a well-respected and admired educator who has 
demonstrated his commitment to the advancement of higher education and 
community growth.
  Mr. Speaker, I wish Dr. Hagan the best of luck in his future 
endeavors, which I am sure will include spending time with his wife, 
Betty, who is also an educator.

                          ____________________



