

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 36 (Wednesday, February 28, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 36 (Wednesday, February 28, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1258]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    NOMINATION OF MARVIN QUATTLEBAUM

  Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, finally, one final word on a pending 
judicial nomination, Marvin Quattlebaum. First, for the benefit of the 
Senate, I would like to note that the only reason the current 
nomination is up, the nomination of Quattlebaum is up is because the 
two Republican Senators from South Carolina refused to return a blue 
slip for two judges nominated for the same vacancy by President Obama. 
Their right as the home State Senators to not return a blue slip was 
respected by the Democratic majority, Chairman Leahy, in 2013, unlike 
the Republican majority, which has already ignored the blue slip 
precedent and confirmed a circuit judge without the approval of both 
home State Senators. I want my colleagues on the other side to remember 
that their blue slips were respected during the Obama administration 
and to think long and hard about continuing to ignore them now that 
their party is in the White House.
  Second, the nomination of Marvin Quattlebaum speaks to the overall 
lack of diversity in President Trump's selection for the Federal 
judiciary. Mr. Quattlebaum replaces not one but two scuttled Obama 
nominees who were African American. As of February 14, 83 percent of 
President Trump's confirmed nominees were male; 92 percent were 
White. That represents the lowest share of non-White candidates in 
three decades.

  It is long past time that the judiciary starts looking a lot more 
like the America it represents. Having a diversity of views and 
experience on the Federal bench is necessary for the equal 
administration of justice. After years of improvement, the Trump 
administration, as in so many other areas, is taking a giant step 
backward--this time, when it comes to the diversity of their 
nominations. I will be voting no on the Quattlebaum nomination.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from North Carolina.

                          ____________________



