

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 30 (Thursday, February 15, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 30 (Thursday, February 15, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1151-S1152]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
proceed to the en bloc consideration of the following nominations: 
Executive Calendar Nos. 645, 646, 647, 648, 662, 684, 685, and 687.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
  Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The clerk will report the nominations en bloc.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read the nominations of John 
Henderson, of South Dakota, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Air 
Force; Michael D. Griffin, of Alabama, to be Under Secretary of Defense 
for Research and Engineering; William Roper, of Georgia, to be an 
Assistant Secretary of the Air Force; Phyllis L. Bayer, of Mississippi, 
to be an Assistant Secretary of the Navy; John H. Gibson II, of Texas, 
to be Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense; Lisa 
Gordon-Hagerty, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary for Nuclear 
Security, Department of Energy; Kevin Fahey, of Massachusetts, to be an 
Assistant Secretary of Defense; and Thomas E. Ayres, of Pennsylvania, 
to be General Counsel of the Department of the Air Force.
  Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to consider the nominations en bloc.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
vote on the nominations en bloc with no intervening action or debate; 
that if confirmed, the motions to reconsider be considered made and 
laid

[[Page S1152]]

upon the table en bloc; that the President be immediately notified of 
the Senate's action; that no further motions be in order; and that any 
statements relating to the nominations be printed in the Record.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The question is, Will the Senate advise and consent to the Henderson, 
Griffin, Roper, Bayer, Gibson, Gordon-Hagerty, Fahey, and Ayres 
nominations en bloc?
  The nominations were confirmed en bloc.

                          ____________________



