

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 5 (Tuesday, January 9, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 5 (Tuesday, January 9, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H28]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




         HONORING THE LIFE OF SHERIFF'S DEPUTY ZACKARI PARRISH

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Colorado (Mr. Buck) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. BUCK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the heroism and 
bravery of Douglas County Sheriff's Deputy Zackari Parrish.
  I attended Deputy Parrish's funeral this past Friday and heard what a 
great husband, father, son, and law enforcement officer he was. He was 
a father of two young daughters; a husband to his wife, Gracie; a son 
to his loving parents; and a colleague to many of the Douglas County 
Sheriff's Office.
  Zackari lost his life 10 days ago, responding to a domestic 
disturbance call in Highlands Ranch, Colorado. Sergeant David Buyers 
spoke of Zackari's bravery that day, saying that he didn't flinch, he 
didn't back down, he didn't hesitate. But he also did everything in his 
power, according to the sheriff, to talk down the gunman.
  Sadly, we can't always win the battles against evil, and on that day, 
Zackari lost. But a lost battle is not a lost war. Zackari knew he 
fought in a war to defend the innocent and to stand up for good.
  It is an honor to speak about a hero. We have the chance to honor one 
of those people who devoted their life to others. People like Zackari 
remind us that our world is not lost, evil will not win the day, and we 
can give more to this world than we take from it.
  Zackari is a hero for the people of Douglas County, Colorado, his 
fellow sheriff's deputies, and the State of Colorado. I pray for his 
family, friends, and fellow deputies as they charge ahead in life 
without their loved one. I pray that God will give them peace in this 
time and that God will be glorified even in the midst of this horrible 
trial. I pray for the other law enforcement members, the other heroes 
wounded that day, as well: Michael Doyle, Taylor Davis, Jeff Pelle, and 
Thomas O'Donnell.
  We can never repay their sacrifices for our community. We can only 
commit ourselves to never forget the cost they willingly paid for us.

                          ____________________



