

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 16 (Tuesday, January 23, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 16 (Tuesday, January 23, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S463-S464]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        TRIBUTE TO STAN STEIDEL

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I would like to recognize a legend in 
Kentucky's high school athletics, Coach Stan Steidel. This month, 
Dayton High School in Campbell County is marking Stan's decades of 
service to the school and its students by renaming the basketball court 
in his honor. I would like to join the community in thanking Stan for 
his support of Kentucky's student-athletes.
  Stan, who graduated from Dayton High School in 1959, has spent more 
than 50 years in education, helping guide the next generation of 
Kentuckians to a bright future. Throughout his career, he has earned a 
long list of accolades as a coach, a teacher, an athletic director, and 
as an administrator.
  In 1979, along with a group of coaches, Stan established Kentucky's 
``All A'' Classic, a tournament for smaller schools. The first 
basketball tournament in 1980 hosted eight schools, all from northern 
Kentucky. Through the persistence of many individuals like Stan, the 
classic continued to grow. In 1990, the founders' dream became reality 
with a statewide tournament with the winning teams from 16 regions.
  The classic has continued to develop, adding more sports, arts, 
academic team competition, and Junior ROTC tournaments. It has also 
grown as a program to help student-athletes compete at a collegiate 
level, giving more

[[Page S464]]

than $500,000 in scholarships to attend Kentucky schools. Because of 
Stan's passionate leadership, countless Kentucky students are able to 
hone their skills and compete across the Commonwealth.
  I would like to congratulate Stan for this impressive honor and thank 
him for a career of dedicated service to young people throughout 
Kentucky. I am proud to join with the Kentucky athletic community in 
celebrating Stan's accomplishments.

                          ____________________



