

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 29 (Wednesday, February 14, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 29 (Wednesday, February 14, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1174-H1176]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    CELEBRATING BLACK HISTORY MONTH

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under the Speaker's announced policy of 
January 3, 2017, the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Al Green) is recognized 
for 60 minutes as the designee of the minority leader.


                             General Leave

  Mr. AL GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent for all 
Members to have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks 
on the subject of my Special Order.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Texas?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. AL GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, this is February 14, Valentine's 
Day, and this is but one day, of course, in the month of February, 
which is Black History Month. I am honored to stand here tonight to 
present a resolution that will be filed, a Black History resolution.
  But I am also honored to say that a good many of my colleagues are in 
support of Black History Month, and they deserve to have their words, 
their expressions made known, which is why I have asked for this 
unanimous consent. My belief is that we will have many, many persons 
who are not here tonight, for legitimate reasons, who will want to make 
sure that they are made a part of the Record by and through their 
comments that they will submit in written word.
  Mr. Speaker, I am here to talk about Black History because for many 
years, too many years, to be quite honest, the history of Africans in 
the Americas, the history of Black people in America, the history of 
African Americans, at one time known as Negroes, this history was 
deleted from the history books. It was said in one book that, because 
little contributions were made to world history, there would be little 
mention of Africans in history.
  But, Mr. Speaker, we know now that this is not true, and because we 
know that it is not true, we seek to at least give some indication in 
the Record that African Americans have made a significant contribution 
in America. But also, the truth is that Africans have made a 
contribution to world history.
  However, tonight, this resolution will focus on and it will recognize 
and celebrate Black History Month; and, in so doing, we would like to 
present the resolution that will be filed at a later time.
  Mr. Speaker, ``Whereas the theme for Black History Month 2018 is 
`African Americans in Times of War' ''--something that we have not 
focused on to the extent that we should have, because African Americans 
have made significant contributions to our country during times of 
war--this theme ``which commemorates the centennial of the end of the 
First World War in 1918, and explores the complex meanings and 
implications of this international struggle and its aftermath;

  ``Whereas this resolution will focus primarily on African Americans 
in the military, which is but one historically important aspect of this 
far-reaching exploration of African-American history;
  ``Whereas African Americans have fought for the United States 
throughout its history;
  ``Whereas despite racial segregation and discrimination, African 
Americans have played a significant role during times of war from the 
colonial period forward''--Mr. Speaker, it is interesting to note, as 
an aside now, that it was not until 1948, by Presidential executive 
order, that President Truman desegregated the military.
  Continuing: ``Whereas Crispus Attucks was a fugitive slave working 
outside of Boston, Massachusetts, as a sailor, and during his time off, 
he worked as a rope maker near the wharf;
  ``Whereas in early 1770, competition for work and wages became stiff 
as British soldiers were contending for the same unskilled positions as 
the locals''--that would be Crispus Attucks and other locals;

[[Page H1175]]

  ``Whereas this situation created tension which slowly escalated to 
violent confrontations;
  ``Whereas on March 5, 1770, Attucks led a group of rope makers and 
sailors into a confrontation with a group of British soldiers and 
subsequently was shot and killed;
  ``Whereas Crispus Attucks, a Black man, is generally considered to be 
the first casualty of the Revolutionary War and is remembered as the 
first of many notable African-American heroes;
  ``Whereas Araminta Ross was born into slavery in Maryland and escaped 
to freedom in the North in 1849 to become the most famous conductor on 
the Underground Railroad;
  ``Whereas Araminta Ross was a leading abolitionist before the 
American Civil War and also helped the Union Army during war, working 
as a spy, among other roles;
  ``Whereas Araminta Ross, a Black woman, guided the Combahee River 
Raid, which liberated more than 700 slaves in South Carolina;
  ``Whereas Araminta Ross, better known as Harriet Tubman, was the 
first woman to lead an armed expedition during the Civil War;
  ``Whereas Powhatan Beaty was born a slave in Richmond, Virginia, in 
1837;
  ``Whereas when the Civil War broke out, Beaty enlisted in the Union 
Army;
  ``Whereas Powhatan Beaty, a Black man, was quickly promoted to 
sergeant and oversaw 47 other Black recruits in noncombat jobs;
  ``Whereas in September of 1864, Beaty's division attacked the enemy 
at Chaffin's farm, near Richmond, Virginia;
  ``Whereas with all of the other unit's officers and most of its 
enlisted men dead or wounded, Beaty took over and led a second charge, 
driving the enemy back;
  ``Whereas for his heroism, Powhatan Beaty, a Black man, was awarded 
the Medal of Honor . . . ;''
  ``Whereas Benjamin Oliver Davis, Sr., entered the military service on 
July 13, 1898, during the Spanish-American War and, as a temporary 
first lieutenant of the 8th United States Volunteer Infantry;
  ``Whereas on June 18, 1899, he enlisted as a private in the 9th 
Cavalry of the Regular Army;
  ``Whereas Davis eventually came under the command of Charles Young, 
whom, at the time, was the only African-American officer serving in the 
U.S. military;
  ``Whereas Young took Davis under his tutelage and helped him to 
prepare to take his officer candidate test;
  ``Whereas in only 2 years, he rose to sergeant major and earned a 
commission as a second lieutenant in 1901;
  ``Whereas Benjamin Oliver Davis, a Black man, rose through the ranks 
and became the first African American to achieve the rank of brigadier 
general in the U.S. military;
  ``Whereas, during World War I, approximately 800``--no one is sure of 
the number--``approximately 800 African Americans were killed in 
action;
  ``Whereas Doris Miller enlisted in the U.S. Navy as a mess 
attendant''--meaning he was a person who served those others with food 
and took care of the cleaning of facilities--``where he served on the 
USS West Virginia when the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor on December 
7, 1941;
  ``Whereas Miller was assigned to carry the wounded sailors to safer 
quarters;
  ``Whereas he returned to the deck and picked up a 50-caliber Browning 
antiaircraft machine gun that he had never been trained to shoot and 
managed to shoot down enemy aircraft;
  ``Whereas, Doris Miller, a Black man, was commended by the Secretary 
of the Navy and became the first African American to be presented the 
Navy Cross;
  ``Whereas before 1940, African Americans were barred from flying for 
the U.S. military;
  ``Whereas civil rights organizations and Black press exerted pressure 
on President Roosevelt, which resulted in the formation of the Tuskegee 
Airmen based in Tuskegee, Alabama, in 1941;
  ``Whereas the Tuskegee Airmen included pilots, navigators, 
bombardiers, maintenance and support staff, instructors, as well as the 
personnel who kept the planes and pilots in the air;
  ``Whereas the Black Tuskegee Airmen overcame segregation and 
prejudice to become one of the most highly respected groups of World 
War II;
  ``Whereas the Tuskegee Airmen's achievements helped pave the way for 
full integration of U.S. military;
  ``Whereas during World War II, approximately 700 African Americans 
were killed in action;
  ``Whereas Cornelius Charlton, a career military man, served in the 
Army during the Korean war;
  ``Whereas on June 2, 1951, his platoon encountered heavy resistance 
while attempting to take Hill 543 and the leader of his platoon was 
wounded;
  ``Whereas Charlton took command and regrouped his men and led an 
assault on the hill;
  ``Whereas he singlehandedly attacked and disabled the last remaining 
enemy gun encampments;

                              {time}  1815

  ``Whereas he subsequently died from his wounds inflicted by a 
grenade, but he is credited with saving much of his platoon;
  ``Whereas Cornelius Charlton, a Black man, posthumously received the 
Medal of Honor for his actions near Chipo-ri, South Korea;
  ``Whereas African Americans literally fought for the right to die in 
defense of their country;
  ``Whereas in the face of injustices, many African Americans 
distinguished themselves with their commitment to the noble ideals upon 
which the United States was founded and courageously fought for the 
rights and the freedom of all Americans;
  ``Whereas the preservation and teaching of Black history are 
nationally recognized due to the efforts of Dr. Carter G. Woodson and 
his establishment of Negro History Week, the precursor to Black History 
Month;
  ``Whereas Black History Month, which represents Dr. Carter G. 
Woodson's efforts to enhance knowledge of Black history, started 
through the Journal of Negro History, published by Woodson's 
Association for the Study of African American Life and History; and
  ``Whereas the month of February is officially celebrated as Black 
History Month, which dates back to 1926, when Dr. Carter G. Woodson set 
aside a special period of time in February to recognize the heritage 
and achievements of Black Americans.
  ``Now, therefore, be it resolved that the House of Representatives--
  ``Recognizes the significance of Black History Month as an important 
time to acknowledge and celebrate the contributions of African 
Americans in the Nation's history, and encourages the continued 
celebration of this month to provide an opportunity for all peoples of 
the United States''--regardless of where they are from--``to learn more 
about the past and to better understand the experiences that have 
shaped the Nation;
  ``Recognizes that ethnic and racial diversity of the United States 
enriches and strengthens the Nation; and
  ``Encourages all States to include in their year-round educational 
curriculum the history and contributions of African Americans in the 
United States and around the world.''
  Mr. Speaker, I am honored to say to this audience that this Congress 
has been very responsive to the notion of celebrating African-American 
history. My hope is that, once we are back in the business of approving 
resolutions of this type, this resolution will be taken up by the 
Congress of the United States of America, that it will be voted on, and 
that it will be passed.
  My hope is that this will be an indication to our country that our 
Congress does truly appreciate what the African Americans have done to 
make America the beautiful a more beautiful America.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time
  Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, today I rise to 
recognize this month of February as Black History Month. Black History 
Month is an important celebration of the achievements and sacrifices of 
African-Americans in building our nation.
  Black History Month has a rich history itself, from its humble 
beginnings as `Negro Awareness Week', celebrated in February to 
coincide with the birth months of both Frederick Douglass and President 
Lincoln, the expansion to a month was first celebrated at Kent State 
University in 1970, before being officially recognized by President 
Gerald Ford in 1976, who said that it was a `seize the opportunity to 
honor the too-often neglected accomplishments of Black Americans in 
every area of endeavor throughout our history'. February has

[[Page H1176]]

been officially designated as Black History Month by every President 
since, and while the month is not itself sufficient to honor the 
legacies of African-Americans, it makes a good start.
  This year is especially important, as is this day, as we honor the 
200th birthday of Frederick Douglass, a towering presence in African-
American history. Born into slavery, secretly teaching himself to read 
and write, Frederick Douglass would become a powerful voice for 
abolition, and for the equality of all people.
  But during this month, we must honor not only Frederick Douglass and 
the other leading figures of our movement, but also the thousands of 
ordinary African-Americans who formed the tide that swept slavery from 
our nation, the many people who continue in the effort to eradicate 
racism today, and all those who will do so in the future.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank my good friend Al Green for convening this 
special order session, so that we can appropriately honor Black History 
Month, and recognize the sacrifice and courage of African-Americans 
throughout our nation's history.

                          ____________________



