

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 7 (Thursday, January 11, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 7 (Thursday, January 11, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S169-S170]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           TEXT OF AMENDMENTS

  SA 1870. Mr. McCONNELL proposed an amendment to the bill S. 139, to 
implement the use of Rapid DNA instruments to inform decisions about 
pretrial release or detention and their conditions, to solve and 
prevent violent crimes and other crimes, to exonerate the innocent, to 
prevent DNA analysis backlogs, and for other purposes; as follows:

       At the end add the following.
       ``This Act shall take effect 1 day after the date of 
     enactment.''
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1871. Mr. McCONNELL proposed an amendment to amendment SA 1870 
proposed by Mr. McConnell to the bill S. 139, to implement the use of 
Rapid DNA instruments to inform decisions about pretrial release or 
detention and their conditions, to solve and prevent violent crimes and 
other crimes, to exonerate the innocent, to prevent DNA analysis 
backlogs, and for other purposes; as follows:

       Strike ``1 day'' and insert ``2 days''
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1872. Mr. McCONNELL proposed an amendment to the bill S. 139, to 
implement the use of Rapid DNA instruments to inform decisions about 
pretrial release or detention and their conditions, to solve and 
prevent violent crimes and other crimes, to exonerate the innocent, to 
prevent DNA analysis backlogs, and for other purposes; as follows:

       At the end add the following.
       ``This Act shall take effect 3 days after the date of 
     enactment.''
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1873. Mr. McCONNELL proposed an amendment to amendment SA 1872 
proposed by Mr. McConnell to the bill S. 139, to implement the use of 
Rapid

[[Page S170]]

DNA instruments to inform decisions about pretrial release or detention 
and their conditions, to solve and prevent violent crimes and other 
crimes, to exonerate the innocent, to prevent DNA analysis backlogs, 
and for other purposes; as follows:

       Strike ``3 days'' and insert ``4 days''
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1874. Mr. McCONNELL proposed an amendment to amendment SA 1873 
proposed by Mr. McConnell to the amendment SA 1872 proposed by Mr. 
McConnell to the bill S. 139, to implement the use of Rapid DNA 
instruments to inform decisions about pretrial release or detention and 
their conditions, to solve and prevent violent crimes and other crimes, 
to exonerate the innocent, to prevent DNA analysis backlogs, and for 
other purposes; as follows:

       Strike ``4'' and insert ``5''

                          ____________________



