

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 30 (Thursday, February 15, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 30 (Thursday, February 15, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1160-S1161]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                     TRIBUTE TO DR. REED L. MOSHER

 Mr. COCHRAN. Mr. President, I wish to commend Dr. Reed L. 
Mosher for over 38 years of service to the Nation.

[[Page S1161]]

  Dr. Mosher will soon retire as the director of the Information 
Technology Laboratory, ITL, of the Corps Engineer Research and 
Development Center, ERDC, headquartered in Vicksburg, MS. His 
astonishing list of accomplishments range from leading research and 
development for the Corps, the Army, the Department of Defense, and 
multiple Federal agencies, to leading the transformation of DOD's 
research and acquisition communities through the strategic application 
of high-performance computing, high-speed networks, computational 
expertise, system engineering, large-scale data analytics, and 
technology transfer. He instilled a culture of innovation, 
adaptability, and shared knowledge. Dr. Mosher created a visionary 
atmosphere where team members are empowered to expand the breadth and 
depth of data analytics capabilities and explore the future of 
information management and information technology.
  During his more than 38-year service to the Nation, Dr. Reed L. 
Mosher exuded extraordinary leadership with unparalleled vision, 
compassion, competence, and determination, culminating with his tenure 
as the director of the ITL, the premier defense laboratory for 
information technology. His initiative and selfless service in the 
successful execution of a broad range of decisive research, 
development, studies, and operational programs in support of military 
engineering and Army civil works have resulted in lasting contributions 
to the Corps of Engineers, the Department of the Army, the Department 
of Defense, and the Nation.
  I am pleased to commend Dr. Mosher for his many years of service and 
to wish him well in the years ahead.

                          ____________________



