

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 9 (Tuesday, January 16, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 9 (Tuesday, January 16, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S173-S174]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                               TAX REFORM

  Mr. McCONNELL. Now, on a final matter, in the wake of last month's 
historic tax reform legislation, the news is filled with stories of 
economic optimism and increasing prosperity for workers and middle-
class families.
  In fact, I am proud to announce that earlier today I spoke with the 
leadership of Humana, which employs more than 12,000 people in my home 
State of Kentucky. Yesterday they notified their staff that they will 
be accelerating pay incentives for associates and raising the minimum 
hourly wages for both part-time and full-time employees--all thanks to 
tax reform. For these Kentucky workers, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will 
mean more money in their paychecks.
  Just last week, the international automaker Fiat Chrysler announced 
that it will invest 1 billion new dollars

[[Page S174]]

in the Warren Truck Assembly Plant just outside of Detroit. The 
production line for Ram heavy-duty trucks is leaving Mexico and coming 
back to America. This will create 2,500 new jobs and inject relief 
right into the local economy. According to officials who announced the 
change, all this is only happening because tax reform is remaking the 
business climate in our country.
  Besides the revival in manufacturing, Fiat Chrysler announced a new 
wave of $2,000 bonuses for 60,000 hourly and salaried employees. They 
will join a growing list of more than 150 companies that have announced 
plans to distribute significant bonuses, permanent pay raises, more 
generous retirement contributions, or other benefits to their 
employees, all thanks to tax reform.
  Prior to tax reform, companies that wanted to manufacture goods in 
America and hire American employees faced the highest statutory 
corporate tax rate in the developed world. American workers were ready 
to clock in, but our outdated burdensome Tax Code told potential 
investors to move along and find somewhere else to set up shop. Those 
days are over, thanks to the President and Republican majorities in the 
House and Senate that voted to modernize our Tax Code.
  Now we are the ones with a competitive advantage. The Wall Street 
Journal's editorial board believes that our tax reform will benefit 
investment in the United States ``at the expense of high-tax countries 
such as Germany.'' The Journal also reports that China ``fears the tax 
changes could make the U.S. a more attractive place to do business.'' 
That is China. It is becoming clear that these fears are entirely 
justified, and it is good news for families and workers in Kentucky and 
all across America.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Johnson). The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

                          ____________________



