

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 20 (Tuesday, January 30, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 20 (Tuesday, January 30, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S587]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. TOOMEY. Mr. President, I have 11 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


                      Committee on Armed Services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, January 30, 2018, at 10 a.m., to 
conduct a hearing entitled ``Korean Peninsula and United States 
strategy in the Indo-Pacific region.''


            Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs

  The Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, January 30, 2018, at 
10 a.m., to conduct a hearing entitled ``The Financial Stability 
Oversight Council annual report to Congress.''


           Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, January 30, 2018, 
at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing entitled ``Growing the Future: 
Opportunities to Support domestic Seafood Through Aquaculture.''


           Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, January 30, 2018, 
at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing entitled ``One Year Later: The 
American Innovation and Competitiveness Act.''


               Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

  The Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, January 30, 2018, at 10 
a.m. to conduct a hearing on subcommittee assignments and the following 
nominations: Melissa F. Burnison, of Kentucky, to be an Assistant 
Secretary of Energy (Congressional and Intergovernmental Affairs), 
Susan Combs, of Texas, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Interior, 
Ryan Douglas Nelson, of Idaho, to be Solicitor of the Department of the 
Interior, and Anne Marie White, of Michigan, to be an Assistant 
Secretary of Energy (Environmental Management).


               Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

  The Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, January 30, 2018, at 10 
a.m. to conduct a hearing entitled ``The role of the Geological Survey 
and the Forest Service in preparing for and responding to natural 
hazard events, as well as the current status of mapping and monitoring 
systems.


               Committee on Environment and Public Works

  The Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, January 30, 2018, at 10 
a.m., to conduct a hearing entitled ``Oversight Hearing to Receive 
Testimony from the Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott 
Pruitt.''


                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, January 30, 2018, at 2:30 p.m. to 
conduct a hearing entitled ``The Economic Relationship between the 
United States, Canada, and Mexico.''


          Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, January 30, 2018, 
at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing entitled ``Reauthorizing the Higher 
Education Act: Access and Innovation.''


          Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, January 30, 2018, 
at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a hearing entitled ``Roundtable on Small 
Business Health Plans.''


                    Select Committee on Intelligence

  The Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, January 30, 2018, at 2:30 p.m., to 
conduct a closed hearing.

                          ____________________



