

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 6 (Wednesday, January 10, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 6 (Wednesday, January 10, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S135]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       REMEMBERING MATT HILLYARD

  Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, today I wish to pay tribute to a remarkable 
man whose smile and beautiful soul touched the lives of everyone he 
met. Matthew Hillyard passed away peacefully at his family home on 
January 4, 2018, to the grief of not only his family and close friends 
but to everyone who knew him in the Utah Legislature.
  Matt, the loving son of Lyle and Alice Hillyard, was born with Down 
syndrome. His parents were told he would not live past adolescence; yet 
he defied the odds and packed a lot of life into 42 years on Earth. 
Matt never let his disability define him; instead, he shared his 
special light with everyone who caught his eye.
  Matt's father, Lyle, has served as a Utah lawmaker since 1981. The 
father-and-son duo became a fixture of the Utah Legislature. When 
things got tense on the senate floor, Matt's innocence stood as a light 
to other lawmakers, defusing tension and stress during the most heated 
debates. He made friends with people from all walks of life--be they 
legislators, security guards, or schoolchildren visiting the capitol. 
Matt's smile and his big hugs were legendary, and people would often 
line up to be the recipient of his affection.
  I had the privilege of enjoying Matt's hugs and greetings on many 
occasions, and I never left his side without feeling I had been in the 
presence of a truly remarkable son of our Heavenly Father. Legislative 
bodies across our country would be well-served with the steady presence 
of someone like Matt, a kind soul who gives love and unwavering 
friendship to all.
  I believe there is a special place in Heaven for Matt, who 
personified the pure love of Christ. He lived a life of sweet 
innocence, friendship, and love. His warm embrace and sweet smile will 
be greatly missed by all. It is my greatest hope that his family and 
all who knew him will find joy and peace in the memories we have shared 
with this extraordinary man.

                          ____________________



