

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 20 (Tuesday, January 30, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 20 (Tuesday, January 30, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H685]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




       PROVIDE TERMINALLY ILL PATIENTS WITH LIFESAVING TREATMENT

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Fitzpatrick) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to once again urge this 
House to put right-to-try legislation on the floor and to provide 
Americans with terminal illnesses potentially lifesaving treatment.
  Matt Bellina, my constituent, a 31-year old Navy veteran, husband, 
father of three, and an ALS warrior who has been a partner in this 
fight, recently sent me the following message: ``In ALS there is only 
one active phase III trial. The drug is NurOwn, and it looks incredibly 
promising, but I didn't meet the exclusion criteria, so I am unable to 
participate in this trial. It looks like the drug has a good shot of 
making it to market in quarter one of 2020. Unfortunately, there is a 
good chance that I will be dead by then.
  ``The right-to-try bill is the only viable option for me at this 
point. I am begging you and the rest of Congress to get this done. I 
want to be there to watch my three boys grow up.''
  Mr. Speaker, we must not delay this lifesaving legislation any 
longer. I urge House leadership to put this bill on the floor for a 
vote. Terminally ill patients across this country are depending on us.


         Recognizing Olympians From Bucks County, Pennsylvania

  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the 
exceptional athletes from Bucks County who will be representing our 
Nation in the 2018 Winter Olympics next month.
  Jamie Greubel Poser, from Newtown, Pennsylvania, will represent the 
United States as a member of the bobsled team.
  Ryan Gunderson, from Bensalem, Pennsylvania, will be joining the U.S. 
Olympic hockey team as a defender.
  Brian O'Neill, from Yardley, Pennsylvania, will join the U.S. hockey 
team as a forward.
  Jamie is a veteran of competition at this level, having won a bronze 
medal at both the 2017 World Championships--also held in South Korea--
as well as the 2014 Sochi Winter Olympics.
  For Brian O'Neill, this will be his first experience as an Olympic 
competitor. A standout player at Germantown Academy and Yale 
University, Brian went on to play for the New Jersey Devils before 
eventually playing for the Kontinental Hockey League.
  Ryan Gunderson, also a first-time Olympic competitor, led Holy Ghost 
Prep to its first Flyers Cup. He currently plays in the Swedish Hockey 
League.
  Mr. Speaker, I wish Ryan, Jamie, and Brian great success. They will, 
no doubt, make Bucks County and our entire Nation proud.

                          ____________________



