

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 50 (Thursday, March 22, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 50 (Thursday, March 22, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1945]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        TRIBUTE TO TAMMY FREEMAN

 Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, today I recognize Tammy Freeman, the 
Broward County Teacher of the Year from Monarch High School in Coconut 
Creek, FL.
  Tammy received the Teacher of the Year award because of her efforts 
to challenge and encourage young learners to grow as critical thinkers. 
She empowers her students by not only instilling skills to help them 
become successful in life, but also by helping them see how important 
their own voice truly is. Instead of giving her students the answers, 
which she believes makes them dependent on her, Tammy instead empowers 
her students by teaching them the process to discover the answers on 
their own. According to her, this will help them become better thinkers 
and learners throughout their lifetime.
  Tammy believes a commitment to personalized instruction builds 
students' confidence in their abilities and a strong foundation for a 
lifetime of learning. Tammy is dedicated to knowing each of her 
students and walks into her classroom each day with the desire to 
inspire her students, the same way she was inspired by her own 
teachers.
  Tammy has been an English teacher at Monarch High School for 10 years 
and serves as chair of the language arts department. Her passion for 
her work has earned the respect and admiration of both students and 
colleagues, and she has shown outstanding ability as both collaborator 
and leader.
  I would like to express my sincere thanks and appreciation to Tammy 
for all the hard work she has done for her students, and I extend my 
best wishes on her continued success in the years to come.

                          ____________________



