

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 39 (Tuesday, March 6, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 39 (Tuesday, March 6, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1375-S1376]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         TRIBUTE TO EVERETT LEE

 Mr. MANCHIN. Mr. President, today I wish to honor the legacy 
of a trailblazing musician and conductor from beautiful Wheeling, WV: 
Everett Lee.
  Everett has not only been witness to changes in the classical music 
industry in the last century, but he has been an integral part of the 
change as well. His story began while working at a hotel in Cleveland, 
OH, where he met the Cleveland Orchestra music director, Artur 
Rodzinkski. The director, having already heard of Everett's remarkable 
talent, invited him to attend concerts on Saturdays. Rodzinkski was a 
mentor to Everett and inspired him to continue his violin training and 
eventually enroll at the Cleveland Institute of Music.
  Everett enlisted in the military of June 1943, serving as an aviation 
cadet at the Tuskegee Army Air Field. Following an injury in the 
military, Everett made his way to New York to serve in the orchestra 
for Broadway's ``Carmen Jones,'' a reimagining of Bizet's opera with an 
all African-American cast. One evening, the conductor was unable to 
attend a performance, and

[[Page S1376]]

Everett stepped up to fill the role, a move that launched his talent 
and professionalism into the spotlight.
  In 1945, Everett served as the music director of ``On the Town,'' a 
groundbreaking show for having an integrated cast. Still, despite his 
success, Everett faced adversity and was once advised against 
auditioning for a seat in the New York Philharmonic. Many thought the 
South would not yet embrace him either. His response was to aim even 
higher and pursue an even more challenging career path as a conductor. 
In 1947, he founded the Cosmopolitan Symphony, which became famous for 
its inclusion of all ethnicities and backgrounds.
  In time, Everett was invited by national and international symphonies 
to conduct, including the Louisville Symphony, which in 1953 made 
Everett the first African-American to lead a major symphony orchestra 
in the U.S. South. He went on to break even more barriers and rise 
above any challenge that came his way. Conducting an acclaimed New York 
City Opera production of ``La Traviata'' in 1955 made him the first 
African-American to conduct a professional grand opera in the United 
States.
  Deciding that he would find better opportunities outside of America, 
Everett and his family moved to Germany in 1957. He held the position 
as chief conductor of the Norrkoping Symphony Orchestra in Sweden for a 
decade. In 1976, he conducted the New York Philharmonic for the first 
time. It was a concert in honor of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., which 
was particularly fitting; both men held the ideal that they could 
embody the change they wanted to see in the world and created 
opportunities for those who wanted to follow in their footsteps.
  Time and time again, sheer talent and strength of character have 
transcended societal obstacles. It is because of individuals such as 
Everett Lee that countless musicians, regardless of their background or 
ethnicity, have pursued their dreams.
  On his 100th birthday, the Mayor of Wheeling designated August 31 as 
``Everett Lee Day'' so we could all celebrate his extraordinary talent 
and strength of character. We are truly blessed to have such an 
international treasure as a part of our West Virginia family. Again, it 
is a great honor and privilege to recognize his many accomplishments, 
and I wish him and his family the very best.

                          ____________________



