

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 22 (Monday, February 5, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 22 (Monday, February 5, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H764]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




   NOTICE OF INTENTION TO OFFER RESOLUTION RAISING A QUESTION OF THE 
                        PRIVILEGES OF THE HOUSE

  Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to 
clause 2(a)(1) of rule IX, I rise to give notice of my intent to raise 
a question of the privileges of the House.
  The form of the resolution is as follows:
  Resolution
  Condemning Representative Paul Gosar
  Whereas, on January 30, 2018, Representative Paul Gosar tweeted a 
series of statements that included ``Today, Congressman Paul Gosar 
contacted the U.S. Capitol Police, as well as Attorney General Jeff 
Sessions, asking that they consider checking identification of all 
attending the State of the Union address and arresting any illegal 
aliens in attendance.'';
  Whereas Representative Gosar went on to tweet ``Any illegal aliens 
attempting to go through security, under any pretext of invitation or 
otherwise, should be arrested and deported,'' said Congressman Gosar;
  Whereas Representative Gosar's comments explicitly targeted the DACA 
recipients that Members of Congress brought as their guests to the 
State of the Union;
  Whereas DACA recipients have been granted deferred action, are 
contributing to this country, and have been thoroughly vetted by the 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services;
  Whereas Representative Gosar's actions to inappropriately pressure 
the U.S. Capitol Police to detain and deport Dreamers, who are staying 
in the country according to U.S. Department of Homeland Security 
regulations, intimidated these young people who are already facing fear 
and uncertainty;
  Whereas Representative Gosar abused the power in an attempt to 
interfere with and politicize the United States Capitol Police's 
efforts to provide for a safe, secure, and open environment during the 
State of the Union;
  Whereas Representative Gosar has violated clause 1 of rule XXIII of 
the Code of Official Conduct which states that ``A Member, Delegate, 
Resident Commissioner, officer or employee of the House shall behave at 
all times in a manner that shall reflect creditably on the House'': 
Now, therefore, be it
    Resolved, that the House of Representatives strongly condemns 
Representative Paul Gosar for his inappropriate actions that 
intimidated State of the Union guests and discredited the House of 
Representatives.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under rule IX, a resolution offered from the 
floor by a Member other than the majority leader or the minority leader 
as a question of the privileges of the House has immediate precedence 
only at a time designated by the Chair within 2 legislative days after 
the resolution is properly noticed.
  Pending that designation, the form of the resolution noticed by the 
gentlewoman from New Mexico will appear in the Record at this point.
  The Chair will not at this point determine whether the resolution 
constitutes a question of privilege. That determination will be made at 
the time designated for consideration of the resolution.

                          ____________________



