

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 6 (Wednesday, January 10, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 6 (Wednesday, January 10, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H87]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





                              {time}  1015
                 CONGRESSMAN TIBERI'S FAREWELL ADDRESS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Ohio 
(Mr. Tiberi) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. TIBERI. Mr. Speaker, it has truly been the most remarkable honor 
to serve the people of Ohio's 12th Congressional District in central 
Ohio.
  It all started in 1999, on my parents' front porch, the house that I 
grew up in, in a middle class neighborhood in Columbus called Forest 
Park. There, as the son of Italian immigrants, I learned how blessed I 
truly was to be an American; first in my family to graduate from high 
school, to go to high school, work my way through college at The Ohio 
State University.
  See, my mom and dad believed that America was an incredible 
opportunity. With hard work and a good education, you could do 
anything. With their sacrifices and their hard work, I am here before 
you today, and for their sacrifices, I am forever grateful.
  Leaving this Congress was not an easy decision. The speech that I 
made in 1999, on their front porch, still holds true today, the reason 
why I ran, to help those constituents, not only help them here in 
Washington, but help them cut through the red tape, to help that 
veteran, to help that widow on Social Security.
  But leaving was important for my family. It was important to support 
them, to be with them more. My colleagues understand that. The 
sacrifices that we make, they make more. We put our names on the 
ballot, our spouses don't, our children don't.
  To my colleagues, thank you for your friendship, your mentorship, 
and, certainly, your wisdom over the years. I will miss you.
  To my supporters, who spent countless hours knocking on doors, 
putting up signs, going on bus tours, I couldn't have done it without 
you. Thank you.
  To my team, both back in Ohio and here in D.C., both past and 
present, thank you for helping me serve and succeed for the people of 
Ohio's 12th District.
  The late, great Woody Hayes said: ``You win with people.'' You are my 
people, and we have won together so many battles. I could not have done 
this without you. Forever Team Tiberi you all will be.
  Most importantly, for my wife, Denice; our four daughters, Angelina, 
Cristina, Daniela, and Gabriela, thank you for all your support over 
the years. I will look forward to seeing you much more.
  Finally, to the constituents of the 12th Congressional District, what 
an honor, a humbling honor, to serve you for the last 17 years. For a 
kid who grew up in Columbus, Ohio, in a middle class family, it has 
truly been an amazing journey. This speech is not good-bye; this speech 
is see you soon around the corner.
  And to that, I wish you all the best here in the United States 
Congress. God bless you, and God bless America.

                          ____________________



