

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 48 (Tuesday, March 20, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 48 (Tuesday, March 20, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1702-H1703]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




        HONORING THE LIFE OF REVEREND JAMES HAWLEY McKINNON, JR.

  (Mr. BUTTERFIELD asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute.)
  Mr. BUTTERFIELD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor a great North 
Carolinian, a friend to many, and a man of God, Reverend James Hawley 
McKinnon, Jr.
  Mr. Speaker, Jim passed away on Sunday, March 11, at the age of 77. 
Jim McKinnon preached the Gospel of Jesus Christ in eastern North 
Carolina for decades. His ministry inspired and motivated so many 
individuals, both in his home of Wilson, North Carolina, and elsewhere.
  Ordained as a minister of the Presbyterian church on September 22, 
1968--shortly after the assassinations of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., 
and Senator Robert F. Kennedy--Jim served congregations throughout 
North Carolina; first as an associate pastor in Fayetteville, and then 
as a senior pastor in Morehead City, Charlotte, and Wilson, where he 
retired after 26 years as senior pastor of First Presbyterian Church.
  Jim McKinnon was a strong, strong pillar in our community and he will 
be missed. Jim McKinnon is survived by his wife of 51 long years, 
Louise Cherry McKinnon; and their two sons, also Presbyterian 
ministers, James, III--we

[[Page H1703]]

call him Trip--and his wife, Angie, from Brunswick, Georgia; and John 
and his wife, Darci, from Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.
  His beloved four grandchildren are: John Brandon and Rebecca Louise 
from Brunswick, Georgia; Aidan Gayle and Ian McKay from Oklahoma City.
  Jim was preceded in death by his grandson, James Hawley McKinnon, 
IV--Jamie.
  Let it be said, Mr. Speaker, that Reverend Jim McKinnon made a 
difference in this world as he helped change lives for so many 
Americans.

                          ____________________



