

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 6 (Wednesday, January 10, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 6 (Wednesday, January 10, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H87-H88]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               NATIONAL LAW ENFORCEMENT APPRECIATION DAY

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Illinois (Mr. Bost) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, this week, we celebrate National Law 
Enforcement Appreciation Day. Law enforcement officers answer the call 
to public service. They enter into situations that put their lives on 
the line. When the natural human response to danger is to run away, 
these brave men and women run toward it, and they do this to protect 
their communities.
  Our law enforcement officers occupy that thin blue line between good 
and evil. They stand between us and those who wish to do us harm and 
harm to our families.
  To the 780,000 police officers across this country who put on the 
badge every day, thank you, and God bless.


                      Congratulating Helen Hawkins

  Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I also rise today to congratulate Helen 
Hawkins of Edwardsville, Illinois, for being inducted into the Senior 
Illinoisans Hall

[[Page H88]]

of Fame. The recognition commemorates the achievements and 
contributions of citizens age 65 and older. Inductees are selected 
through a statewide nomination and judging process. The program 
distinguishes individuals in the areas of community service, education, 
the work force, and the arts.
  Helen is a true public servant who has devoted many years to serving 
the residents of Madison County and Nameoki Township. Her no-nonsense 
style may have ruffled some feathers throughout the years, but she has 
never been afraid to fight for her constituents.
  Helen, thank you for your public service.


                          Honoring Bob Butler

  Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I also rise today to honor the longest serving 
mayor in the State of Illinois, Bob Butler, who is a very good friend 
of Marion. Now, he is a very good friend, but, whenever he first took 
office, he didn't know me well because I was only 2\1/2\ years old. He 
was first elected in April of 1963, and Bob is retiring this month 
after 55 years of service.
  Bob has always been a straight shooter and a good public servant. His 
progrowth agenda has helped turn Marion into a regional powerhouse 
along I-57 in the State of Illinois. In fact, the industrial park in 
Marion is named after him, and Bob fondly refers to the city of Marion 
as the hub of the universe. He represents the dedication to public 
service that should serve as an inspiration to all of us.
  Mayor Bob Butler, we honor you, and wish you a happy and well-
deserved retirement.


                     Recognizing Sam and Eva Jones

  Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I also rise today to recognize Sam and Eva 
Jones of Marion, Illinois. This remarkable couple was first married on 
September 27, 1936. Now, if you think about that, that was 80 years 
ago.
  Sam worked for Central Illinois Power Service until he retired in 
1978. Eva worked at Norge in Herrin and later as a cook for Washington 
Elementary School. Pillars of the community, they were longtime members 
of First Baptist Church in Marion and the Williamson County Farm 
Bureau. In 1993, their farm was honored as Family Farm of the Year by 
the Farm Bureau.
  Sadly, Eva passed last month, at the age of 101. My prayers are with 
Sam and the entire Jones family. Thank you for making southern Illinois 
a wonderful place to live. God bless you.

                          ____________________



