

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 49 (Wednesday, March 21, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 49 (Wednesday, March 21, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H1750]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




MOMENT OF SILENCE HONORING LIEUTENANT COMMANDER JAMES BRICE JOHNSON AND 
                    LIEUTENANT CALEB NATHANIEL KING

  (Mr. TAYLOR asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.)
  Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor the lives of Lieutenant 
Commander James Brice Johnson and Lieutenant Caleb Nathaniel King, who 
gave the ultimate sacrifice during a training exercise last week as 
their Virginia Beach-based squadron was training off the coast of 
Florida.
  Mr. Speaker, I want to thank Congressman Curbelo for organizing this 
moment and all the help from the great people of the 26th District of 
Florida.
  Mr. Speaker, I am not naive to the fact that my words today don't 
hold a candle to the pain, the grieving, the questioning, and perhaps 
some anger from the families, friends, and teammates, how they may be 
feeling.
  But today we are here with you, we pray with you, Victoria and Rain, 
Darrell and Robin, Mary, Charles and Kathryn, and we feel your pain. 
However, we must honor them. We must speak out as a grateful nation for 
the sacrifice these valiant men and their loved ones made for us, for 
freedom.
  They died in the full strength and vigor of their youth, and they 
represent the profound power of our country and its unbroken line of 
patriots who understand the risks, but time and time again step forward 
to serve a cause greater than themselves. They are part of the very 
fabric of our land, and they inspire not only us, but our descendants 
for generations to come.
  Indeed, there is nothing small about the big task it takes to defend 
freedom, peace, and our way of life. And this may be equally dangerous 
during training, peace, or war.
  But in this heartache, there is hope. We are better because they have 
lived.
  On behalf of a grateful Congress, community, and country, we give 
thanks and our sincerest condolences to the men and women of the 
fighting Blacklions from Squadron 213, to the friends and to the 
families of Lieutenant Commander Johnson and Lieutenant King.
  Rest easy now, boys.
  Mr. Speaker, I now request the House observe a moment of silence in 
honor of Lieutenant Commander Johnson and Lieutenant King.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Members and guests in the gallery, please 
rise for a moment of silence.

                          ____________________



