

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 12 (Friday, January 19, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 12 (Friday, January 19, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H573]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




            DETECTIVE MICHAEL R. DOTY, SOUTH CAROLINA LAWMAN

  (Mr. POE of Texas asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute.)
  Mr. POE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, bruised and battered Christian 
McCall's wife called the police, reporting that her husband was 
engaging in domestic abuse.
  So, on January 17, Detective Michael Doty and three other deputies 
who wear the badge responded to the call for help. After beating up his 
wife, the scoundrel took off, running away from the police. What 
followed was a 3-hour manhunt for the outlaw.
  As the law officers closed in on his trail, shots rang out from 
McCall. Sergeants Randy Clinton, Buddy Brown, and Kyle Cummings were 
all shot during the chase. We thank the good Lord that they are 
expected to make a full recovery. Detective Michael Doty was also shot 
and killed. This is his photograph.
  Detective Doty was a member of the thin blue line leaving the world 
too soon. He was 37 years old and a 12-year veteran of the York County 
Sheriff's Department in South Carolina. He and his twin brother 
enlisted in the force at the same time. Doty dedicated his life to 
protecting and serving. He previously worked in the drug enforcement 
unit as a member of the SWAT team.
  As his body was transported to the medical center, fellow officers 
lined the streets in tribute to him. He was an officer every agency 
would be proud to have. Each and every day, we are grateful to have 
officers like Michael Doty.
  The shooter was captured and he will face justice.
  America's peace officers do America's dirty work. They root out evil 
and go after those who would do us harm. Officers like Michael Doty are 
the rare breed who give their lives for the rest of us. And for that, 
we are grateful.
  And that is just the way it is.

                          ____________________



