

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 34 (Monday, February 26, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 34 (Monday, February 26, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H1229]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         HONORING JOE QUATTRONE

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Louisiana (Mr. Abraham) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. ABRAHAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor one of the hardest 
working men on Capitol Hill, Joe Quattrone.
  Joe's 84th birthday was Saturday, February 10. He has been cutting 
hair in the House for 47 years. Joe embodies the principles of hard 
work, dedication, and humility. He has cut the hair of the most 
powerful people in Washington, including: President Gerald Ford; 
President George Bush, Sr.; Vice President Al Gore; and almost every 
single Speaker of the House. He has cut hair in hospital rooms, before 
inaugurations, and even for foreign Presidents and ambassadors.
  Joe grew up in Reggio Calabria, Italy, and came to the United States 
in 1952. He served as an Italian translator with the American Air Force 
during the Korean war. Along with an honorable discharge, Joe received 
his American citizenship upon leaving the Army. In 1960, Joe came to 
D.C. and held a number of jobs before cutting hair in the House. He 
even worked construction on the Rayburn House Office Building.
  Emigrating from Italy, Joe is so proud of his American citizenship. 
Growing up in Italy, Joe was first introduced to America when American 
troops flew over his town during World War II. He said they would get 
so close to the town that he even made eye contact with the pilots 
flying those planes. When American troops came through his city, Joe 
remembers waving a small American flag, along with his family, 
welcoming them to his hometown.
  After serving with the Air Force, in 1955 he joined the Metropolitan 
D.C. Police Force, where he was active for 25 years. When you speak to 
Joe, you see the pride and joy he takes in his job and his country 
reflected in his attitude. It is because of Joe and the hardworking 
staff in the Capitol buildings of the Congress that Congress is able to 
perform its duties every day.
  Today I honor Joe and the lifetime of service he has given to the 
Capitol and to the United States of America.

                          ____________________



