

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 57 (Tuesday, April 10, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 57 (Tuesday, April 10, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S2034]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                        TRIBUTE TO SCIPIO WHITE

 Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I wish to recognize Scipio White for 
his service to our Nation, the Commonwealth, and to the Monessen 
community in Pennsylvania.
  In 1941, Scipio entered the Army to defend our Nation during WWII. He 
was recognized early on for his leadership skills and his ability to 
interact with individuals of all backgrounds. Upon completing officer 
training school, Scipio was commissioned lieutenant. He became one of 
the first African Americans to serve as a field officer during WWII.
  After the war concluded, Scipio continued his military career as an 
Army Reservist, eventually securing the rank of major. He served as 
branch president and vice president of his local Reserve Officers 
Association and is also active with the Military Officers Association 
of America.
  Returning to Pennsylvania, Scipio continued his government service 
with the Post Office for 41 years. During that time, he completed a 
business degree from Douglas Business School in Monessen. Additionally, 
he was a board member of the Mon Valley Community Health Center during 
its inception and served on the board of the Washington County Postal 
Credit Union.
  Today Scipio's devotion to the community remains evident. He actively 
works with the Monessen Clean Air Coalition to promote smoking 
cessation and remains a long-term member of the NAACP. For more than 50 
years, he has worked with the Mon Yough Lodge No. 79 and is a 32 
Sublime Prince with the St. Cyprian Consistory No. 4 in Pittsburgh, PA.
  I commend Scipio White for his life of service and leadership on 
behalf of the Nation, the Commonwealth, and the residents of Monessen, 
PA.

                          ____________________



