

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 15 (Monday, January 22, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 15 (Monday, January 22, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S437-S438]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




        FEDERAL REGISTER PRINTING SAVINGS ACT OF 2017--Continued


            Vote on Motion to Concur with Amendment No. 1917

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, I know of no further debate on the 
motion to concur with amendment.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there further debate?
  If not, the question is on agreeing to the motion to concur in the 
House

[[Page S438]]

amendment to the Senate amendment to H.R. 195, with further amendment.
  Mr. McCONNELL. I ask for the yeas and nays.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a sufficient second?
  There is a sufficient second.
  The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk called the roll.
  Mr. CORNYN. The following Senator is necessarily absent: the Senator 
from AZ (Mr. McCain).
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there any other Senators in the Chamber 
desiring to vote?
  The result was announced--yeas 81, nays 18, as follows:

                      [Rollcall Vote No. 17 Leg.]

                                YEAS--81

     Alexander
     Baldwin
     Barrasso
     Bennet
     Blunt
     Boozman
     Brown
     Burr
     Cantwell
     Capito
     Cardin
     Carper
     Casey
     Cassidy
     Cochran
     Collins
     Coons
     Corker
     Cornyn
     Cotton
     Crapo
     Cruz
     Daines
     Donnelly
     Duckworth
     Durbin
     Enzi
     Ernst
     Fischer
     Flake
     Gardner
     Graham
     Grassley
     Hassan
     Hatch
     Heinrich
     Heitkamp
     Heller
     Hoeven
     Inhofe
     Isakson
     Johnson
     Jones
     Kaine
     Kennedy
     King
     Klobuchar
     Lankford
     Manchin
     McCaskill
     McConnell
     Moran
     Murkowski
     Murray
     Nelson
     Perdue
     Peters
     Portman
     Reed
     Risch
     Roberts
     Rounds
     Rubio
     Sasse
     Schatz
     Schumer
     Scott
     Shaheen
     Shelby
     Smith
     Stabenow
     Sullivan
     Thune
     Tillis
     Toomey
     Udall
     Van Hollen
     Warner
     Whitehouse
     Wicker
     Young

                                NAYS--18

     Blumenthal
     Booker
     Cortez Masto
     Feinstein
     Gillibrand
     Harris
     Hirono
     Leahy
     Lee
     Markey
     Menendez
     Merkley
     Murphy
     Paul
     Sanders
     Tester
     Warren
     Wyden

                             NOT VOTING--1

       
     McCain
       
  The motion was agreed to.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The majority leader.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, after 3 days of an unnecessary lapse 
in funding, a bipartisan majority has brought the Democratic leader's 
extraordinary filibuster to an end and passed a bipartisan bill to 
reopen the Federal Government.
  As I have said repeatedly over the past week, shutting down the 
government is an irresponsible way to do business. It does not reflect 
the seriousness with which I know my colleagues on both sides would 
like to approach the people's business here in the Senate.
  All our important work for the American people had to be put on hold 
while this manufactured crisis was dealt with. We made no substantive 
progress--not one inch--on the serious bipartisan negotiations that it 
will take to solve issues such as immigration, border security, 
healthcare, defense spending, and many other matters. I am glad we can 
finally get back to work here.
  Amid the political gamesmanship, the past 3 days have highlighted the 
commitment of many of my colleagues to honest and bipartisan work. I 
would like to particularly thank Senator Graham, Senator Collins, 
Senator Flake, and several of our Democratic colleagues who worked 
tirelessly to bring this impasse to a conclusion.
  Soon, Federal operations will be getting back to normal for the 
American people. We all know what comes next--challenging negotiations 
on a host of serious issues. The weeks ahead will require the best from 
all of us.
  I hope we can remember some lessons from this regrettable incident. 
Brinksmanship and hostage-taking do not work. They make bipartisan 
progress harder, not easier, to achieve.
  Senators must focus on the common good of the American people, not 
the warped priorities--the warped priorities--of extreme voices, no 
matter how loudly they shout at us to do otherwise.
  With the pointless, damaging, partisan theatrics of this government 
shutdown behind us, serious and bipartisan negotiations can resume. We 
have been talking for months about how to address military spending, 
disaster relief, healthcare, immigration, and border security, and the 
rest of Congress's unfinished business. Now those talks can get going 
again. Whether they bear fruit is up to all of us.

                          ____________________



