

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 46 (Thursday, March 15, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 46 (Thursday, March 15, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1763]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         TRIBUTE TO MARK BOOTH

  Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, today I wish to honor and recognize the 
outstanding service of Mark Booth on his retirement after 31 years of 
public service at the Congressional Budget Office. Mark's expertise as 
a forecaster and modeler has made him an invaluable contributor to 
CBO's analysis of the budget outlook. Since 2003, Mark has been chief 
of the revenue estimating unit of CBO's tax analysis division, 
overseeing its forecasts of tax revenues and cost estimates of 
legislative proposals.
  Mark came to CBO in 1986 from the private sector, where he began his 
career as a forecaster and analyst. He took over responsibility for 
CBO's corporate income tax projections and quickly demonstrated his 
analytic skills. As a result, Mark's portfolio continuously expanded, 
as he soon also became the lead analyst for CBO's projections of 
individual income taxes and Federal Reserve System's earnings. In 
addition, Mark joined the tax analysis division's cost-estimating team, 
overseeing assistant analysts to produce timely estimates of 
legislative proposals. Over those years, Mark won the CBO Director's 
Award for Exceptional Service, the agency's highest recognition for 
work by a CBO staffer, twice.
  In recognition of Mark's abilities and breadth of experience, he was 
promoted to the position of unit chief for revenue estimating in 2003, 
and he has overseen the division's projections and cost estimates ever 
since. As head of the revenue estimating unit, Mark has led his staff 
in providing high-quality and timely projections of revenues and 
analysis of budget issues. Mark has made valuable contributions to 
numerous reports, testimonies, and cost estimates in just about every 
subject area covered by CBO, including the economy, energy, 
transportation, and healthcare. He also has served a crucial role in 
trying to make CBO's analysis more transparent, preparing several 
background papers that describe CBO's methods of forecasting revenues 
and evaluate the agency's projections record.
  I know my colleagues join me in extending our thanks and appreciation 
to Mark for his service to our Nation. We wish him well in his 
retirement from CBO and hope he will continue in future years to lend 
his expertise to the analysis of important tax policy issues.

                          ____________________



