

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 7 (Thursday, January 11, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 7 (Thursday, January 11, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S165]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          TRIBUTE TO EARL BUSH

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize Earl Bush, 
the judge-executive in Bracken County, KY, who will retire at the end 
of his current term. In my home State, a judge-executive is the highest 
elected county official, and since 2011, Earl has earned a reputation 
for accomplishment on behalf of the people of Bracken County.
  After graduating from Western Kentucky University, Earl served our 
Nation in the U.S. Air Force, earning the rank of captain. For the next 
three decades, Earl worked at Dayton Power and Light in various 
construction management positions.
  In 2010, Earl decided to put his efforts to work for his neighbors 
because, like so many of us in public life, he wanted to make a 
difference. Along with his team, Earl has spent his time in office 
working to help the men and women of Bracken County. As a former county 
judge-executive myself, I know firsthand about Earl's wide-ranging 
responsibilities. Looking at his results, Earl seems to have found 
success.
  In addition to equipment upgrades and road improvements, Earl has 
also championed the addition of recreational trails and a fishing lake 
at a local industrial park. Working with other officials, Earl also 
lowered taxes and helped the county's largest employer bring new jobs 
to Bracken County. By nearly any standard, that is an impressive record 
of accomplishment for a public official.
  I have enjoyed every opportunity I have had to work with Earl. 
Throughout his time in office, he has been a strong partner as we serve 
the people of Kentucky. In retirement, Earl looks forward to spending 
more time with his wife and grandchildren. He also plans to work with 
his brother to restore classic cars. Along with many in Bracken County, 
I wish him a relaxing next chapter, and I am confident that my Senate 
colleagues will join me.

                          ____________________



