

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 16 (Tuesday, January 23, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 16 (Tuesday, January 23, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S447-S460]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     EXECUTIVE CALENDAR--Continued

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Massachusetts.
  Ms. WARREN. Mr. President, I ask to be recognized to speak in 
opposition to Governor Powell's nomination to serve as Chair of the 
Federal Reserve Bank.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator is recognized.
  Ms. WARREN. Mr. President, I am concerned that as Chair of the Fed, 
Governor Powell will roll back critical rules that help guard against 
another financial crisis, and that is simply a risk we cannot afford.
  While big banks have bounced back from the 2008 financial crisis and 
are posting record profits, many American families are still trying to 
rebuild their lives 10 years later. Yet Governor Powell seems to think 
that the No. 1 problem with our current financial system is that we are 
too hard on the banks. In his confirmation hearing, he said that he 
would ``continue to consider appropriate ways to ease regulatory 
burdens.'' When I asked him if there were a single financial rule he 
thought should be stronger--just a single provision in one of the Fed's 
dozens of rules where there might be an unintended loophole or where an 
innovative product has introduced a new risk into the system--he 
couldn't name a single one. Not one.
  In my questions for the record, I also asked Governor Powell about a 
report that the Treasury Department put out last June. This report was 
really just a cut-and-paste job of the banking lobbyists' wish lists 
for rule rollbacks. Governor Powell could not identify any 
recommendations in that report that he disagreed with. Again, not a 
single one.
  That is not all. At Governor Powell's confirmation hearing, when my 
Republican colleague Senator Kennedy asked him about whether there are 
any institutions today that are too big to fail, Governor Powell said: 
``I would say no to that.'' Governor Powell expanded on that statement 
in his answers to my written questions, saying that ``we have made 
enough progress that the failure of one of our most systemically 
important financial institutions, while undoubtedly posing a severe 
shock to the economy, could more likely than not be resolved without 
critically undermining the financial stability of the United States.''
  First of all, that is an incredibly narrow definition of what too big 
to fail means. But second of all, and more importantly, Governor 
Powell's view is out of step with the mainstream of serious experts. 
Giant institutions still have the ability to blow up our economy, and 
that is the biggest problem facing the Fed and other regulators.
  I am deeply concerned that as soon as Governor Powell unpacks his 
boxes in the Chairman's office, he will begin weakening the new rules 
that Congress and the Fed had put in place after the 2008 financial 
crisis, and he will have help. Right down the hall will be his close 
friend, Randal Quarles, the Fed's new Vice Chair for Supervision. 
Governor Powell told me when we met that he intended to rely a lot on 
Vice Chair Quarles on regulatory issues. That is a really dangerous 
prospect.
  Before coming to the Fed, Vice Chair Quarles spent more than a decade 
in private equity, where he made his mark arguing for weaker rules on 
big banks--and he has gotten a running start now that he is in the Fed. 
In a speech a few weeks ago at his old private equity firm, Quarles 
announced that he was working on reducing capital standards for Wall 
Street banks, weakening the Volcker rule, and making stress tests 
easier for big banks to pass. In other words, he has already set up his 
to-do list to gut measures put in place after the financial crisis that 
are there to try to keep our economy safer.
  So Governor Powell says that he will take his cues from a guy who 
wants to get rid of as many rules as he can and take the teeth out of 
the rules that he can't. No thank you. That will make American families 
less safe. It will make the American economy less safe.
  To make matters worse, Powell's gifts to the giant banks will come at 
a time when banks of all sizes made gigantic profits last year and got 
giant tax giveaways in the bill that was passed in December. Good 
grief, when will enough be enough for these guys? But even with the 
banks rolling in money, the army of lobbyists and executives have come 
back, storming Capitol Hill and the halls of the Fed, spinning a story 
that financial rules are throttling them and need to be cut back.
  We need a Fed Chair who can stand up to Wall Street and think about 
the needs of working families in this country. We need someone who 
believes in the toughest rules for banks, not in weaker rules for 
banks. That person is not Governor Powell.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that 
notwithstanding rule XXII, the Senate vote on the motion to invoke 
cloture on the Powell nomination.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                             Cloture Motion

  Pursuant to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the Senate the pending 
cloture motion, which the clerk will state.
  The assistant bill clerk read as follows:

                             Cloture Motion

       We, the undersigned Senators, in accordance with the 
     provisions of rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the Senate, 
     do hereby

[[Page S448]]

     move to bring to a close debate on the nomination of Jerome 
     H. Powell, of Maryland, to be Chairman of the Board of 
     Governors of the Federal Reserve System for a term of four 
     years.
         Mitch McConnell, John Boozman, Jerry Moran, Marco Rubio, 
           Deb Fischer, John Barrasso, Richard Burr, Ben Sasse, 
           Richard C. Shelby, Cory Gardner, Mike Crapo, James E. 
           Risch, Shelley Moore Capito, John Hoeven, Dan Sullivan, 
           Rob Portman, John Thune.

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unanimous consent, the mandatory quorum 
call is waived.
  The question is, Is it the sense of the Senate that debate on the 
nomination of Jerome H. Powell, of Maryland, to be Chairman of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, shall be brought to a 
close?
  The yeas and nays are mandatory under the rule.
  The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk called the roll.
  Mr. CORNYN. The following Senators are necessarily absent: the 
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. Corker), the Senator from Arizona (Mr. 
McCain), the Senator from South Carolina (Mr. Scott), and the Senator 
from North Carolina (Mr. Tillis).
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Hoeven). Are there any other Senators in 
the Chamber desiring to vote?
  The yeas and nays resulted--yeas 84, nays 12, as follows:

                       [Rollcall Vote No. 18 Ex.]

                                YEAS--84

     Alexander
     Baldwin
     Barrasso
     Bennet
     Blunt
     Boozman
     Brown
     Burr
     Cantwell
     Capito
     Cardin
     Carper
     Casey
     Cassidy
     Cochran
     Collins
     Coons
     Cornyn
     Cortez Masto
     Cotton
     Crapo
     Daines
     Donnelly
     Duckworth
     Durbin
     Enzi
     Ernst
     Fischer
     Flake
     Gardner
     Graham
     Grassley
     Hassan
     Hatch
     Heinrich
     Heitkamp
     Heller
     Hirono
     Hoeven
     Inhofe
     Isakson
     Johnson
     Jones
     Kaine
     Kennedy
     King
     Klobuchar
     Lankford
     Leahy
     Manchin
     McCaskill
     McConnell
     Menendez
     Moran
     Murkowski
     Murphy
     Murray
     Nelson
     Perdue
     Peters
     Portman
     Reed
     Risch
     Roberts
     Rounds
     Rubio
     Sasse
     Schatz
     Schumer
     Shaheen
     Shelby
     Smith
     Stabenow
     Sullivan
     Tester
     Thune
     Toomey
     Udall
     Van Hollen
     Warner
     Whitehouse
     Wicker
     Wyden
     Young

                                NAYS--12

     Blumenthal
     Booker
     Cruz
     Feinstein
     Gillibrand
     Harris
     Lee
     Markey
     Merkley
     Paul
     Sanders
     Warren

                             NOT VOTING--4

     Corker
     McCain
     Scott
     Tillis
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this vote, the yeas are 84, the nays are 
12.
  The motion is agreed to.
  The senior Senator from the State of South Dakota.


                           Order of Procedure

  Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that 
notwithstanding rule XXII, at 5 p.m., all postcloture time be 
considered expired and the Senate vote on confirmation of the Powell 
nomination; that if confirmed, the motion to reconsider be considered 
made and laid upon the table, the President be immediately notified of 
the Senate's action, and the Senate then vote on the motion to invoke 
cloture on the Azar nomination.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                 Funding the Government and Tax Reform

  Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I am glad that Democrats decided that they 
needed to reopen the government. The political theater they engaged in 
over the weekend endangered funding for our military, threatened the 
future of the Children's Health Insurance Program, and created 
uncertainty about important government services, from programs for 
veterans, to worker and product safety, to public health. And for what? 
For politics. Democrats were feeling pressure from certain interest 
groups within their party, and so they decided to use the government 
funding bill to take a stand on an unrelated illegal immigration issue. 
It didn't matter that Republicans had already expressed an interest in 
working on an immigration bill with Democrats or that the deadline for 
such a bill was not imminent. No, Democrats weren't getting the bill 
that they and their interest groups wanted, when they wanted it, so 
they decided to jeopardize the operation of the entire government.
  Unfortunately, obstructing for political reasons has been the 
Democrats' modus operandi so far this Congress. Democrats were 
supposedly fervent advocates of extending the Children's Health 
Insurance Program, but they chose to obstruct the substantial 6-year 
extension of CHIP included in the government funding bill because they 
wanted to make a political point. On Presidential nominees, they have 
obstructed and obstructed again, even when they planned to eventually 
support the nominee. And of course I don't need to remind anyone of 
Democrats' refusal to accept Republicans' offer to work together on tax 
reform--this, of course, despite the fact that Democrats had previously 
called for tax reform and supported many of the proposals that were 
included in the law.
  Obviously, there are going to be disagreements in politics, sometimes 
very serious ones. Sometimes opposing legislation is absolutely the 
right thing to do, but opposing legislation because you have a serious 
disagreement with it and opposing legislation for political reasons are 
two very different things. But unfortunately, since their defeat in the 
2016 elections, Democrats have spent a lot of time doing the latter. 
That is irresponsible, it is shortsighted, and it is a disservice to 
their constituents. Democrats are missing the chance to help deliver 
major benefits for the American people.
  That tax reform legislation Democrats fiercely decried despite their 
previous support for many of the included proposals, well, that 
legislation, which has been the law of the land for barely a month, is 
already delivering big benefits for the American people. More than 200 
companies have announced wage hikes, 401(k) increases, and/or bonuses.
  The Nation's largest private employer, Walmart, announced an increase 
in its starting wage for hourly employees and bonuses for eligible 
employees. It also announced expanded maternity and parental leave 
benefits and the creation of a new adoption benefit for their 
employees. More than 1 million Walmart employees will benefit from the 
changes.
  Tech giant Apple announced last week that thanks to tax reform, it 
will bring home almost $250 billion in cash that it has been keeping 
overseas and invest it here in the United States. It also announced 
that it will create 20,000 new jobs and provide $2,500 stock bonuses to 
employees.
  The list goes on--better retirement benefits at Aflac; increased 
capital investment and bonuses at AT&T; bonuses at PNC; increased 
investment in infrastructure and facilities at Boeing; a hike in 
starting wages at Capital One; new jobs, bonuses, and investment from 
Fiat Chrysler; bonuses at Southwest, JetBlue, and American Airlines; 
better retirement benefits at Visa; and the list goes on and on. There 
are the utility companies that are seeking approval from the regulators 
to pass savings on to consumers. These benefits are going to make a 
real difference in families' lives this year and, in some cases, well 
into the future.
  The main benefits of tax reform are still to come. The IRS has 
released the new withholding tables for the tax law, and Americans 
should start seeing the results in February. Thanks to lower income tax 
rates and the near doubling of the standard deduction, 90 percent of 
American workers should see bigger paychecks starting next month. On 
top of that, the doubling of the child tax credit will mean even 
greater tax relief for hard-working parents, and that is just the 
beginning.
  One major goal of tax reform was to provide immediate, direct relief 
to hard-working Americans, and that is happening right now. But our 
other goal was to create the kind of robust, long-term economic growth 
that would provide long-term security for American families. That is 
already starting with the wave of wage increases and bonuses, but there 
is a lot more to come. As businesses large and small experience the 
benefits of tax reform, American workers will see increased access to 
the kinds of jobs, wages, and opportunities that will secure their 
American dream for the long term.
  I am proud that we passed tax reform, and I am very excited about the 
benefits that it is already delivering for American families and 
American

[[Page S449]]

workers. We have a lot more to accomplish this year, from improving our 
Nation's infrastructure to strengthening our military, to border 
security.
  I hope yesterday's vote to end the shutdown is a sign that the 
Democrats are ready to stop obstructing. We can get a lot more done for 
the American people when we are working together.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, today, we consider the nomination of 
Federal Reserve Board Governor Jerome Powell to be Chair of the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, one of the most important 
jobs in our government. The Federal Reserve System is the central bank 
of the United States. It is responsible for monetary policy, ensuring 
the stability of the financial system and the safety and soundness of 
our banks.
  The Federal Reserve in Washington, DC, also has 12 regions or 
districts around the country. One of them is located in my hometown of 
Cleveland. Governor Powell has been a member of the Federal Reserve 
Board since 2012. He supported important principles of monetary policy 
and critical elements of financial regulation. His track record over 
the past 6 years shows that he is a thoughtful policymaker.
  As the Chair of the Board of Governors, he would lead the Federal 
Open Market Committee within the Federal Reserve. Governor Powell 
supports the statutory dual monetary policy goals of maximum employment 
and price stability--the cornerstones of a well-functioning economy.
  Senator Crapo, who is joining me today, is chairman of the committee. 
We listened to testimony today about the nomination of another Fed 
Governor--not the highest position, as the Chairman of the Federal 
Reserve, but a Federal Reserve Governor--Mr. Goodfriend. The answers we 
elicited from him seemed to be, from my interpretation, that it was not 
clear that he has the same belief and respect for the dual mandate. The 
dual mandate, unlike what the Europeans do, is especially important for 
workers in this country. In Europe, the only charge of the central bank 
is to keep inflation down. In our country, the Federal Reserve, what we 
call our central bank, has two jobs equally balanced--the dual policy--
and that is to keep inflation down and to keep employment up. They are 
maximum employment and price stability, the cornerstones of a well-
functioning economy.
  To advance those policy goals, Governor Powell supports the Federal 
Reserve's current path of gradual increases in interest rates. He 
believes they should continue. At the same time, Governor Powell 
recognizes the importance of an independent Federal Reserve. That is 
very important. I don't want Members of Congress--with our prejudices, 
biases, and political ideologies--to influence or to compromise the 
independence of the Federal Reserve. Governor Powell recognizes that 
independence. He is committed to following an example of prior Federal 
Reserve Chairs by doing the job without a view to political outcomes.
  Governor Powell played a significant role in implementing crucial 
reforms under Dodd-Frank. He understands the importance of the rules 
for stress tests, capital standards, and resolution planning. We need 
the Federal Reserve to make sure that those rules are applied 
thoroughly and consistently so that gaps or failures don't create 
larger risks through the financial system.
  We know that too many people in this body seem to have a collective 
amnesia about what happened 10 years ago. It is up to us to remind 
Governor Powell, and it is up to him to remember what happened 10 years 
ago and to learn from it. As Chair, Governor Powell is responsible for 
making sure the Fed fulfills its consumer protection role.
  Americans work hard to make ends meet. They shouldn't have to 
struggle with unfair and abusive practices by financial institutions.
  The Trump administration is engaged in an effort to undermine 
important financial system protections and reforms put in place in the 
wake of the great recession.
  Governor Powell has seen the developments in the safety and stability 
of our banks during his time at the Fed. I expect him to maintain and 
to improve those standards. Ohioans, still recovering from the last 
financial crisis, can't afford the consequences of another financial 
crisis. I know Governor Powell wants the Fed to play a part in the 
success of the economy and American families. I call on him to continue 
the Federal Reserve's measured path for monetary policy and to support 
the strong regulations he helped put in place.
  For some people, it is easy to forget how much damage was done by 
this lack of strong oversight of our financial system, especially 
during the last 4 years of the Bush administration, where millions lost 
their homes. I know Chairman Crapo and I have talked about this. The 
44105 ZIP Code that my wife Connie and I live in, in Cleveland, in the 
first half of 2007, we had more foreclosures in that ZIP Code than any 
ZIP Code in the United States. Think of what it does to people's lives. 
Think of what it does to our families. Millions of people lost homes, 
millions lost jobs, millions lost much of their life savings.
  For the wealthiest Americans, the nearly 9 years of gains in the 
stock market makes the crash of a decade ago a distant memory, but for 
the vast majority of Americans who have little in direct holdings in 
the stock market and not too much in other areas either, their wages 
have been flat, and many still have not recovered from the crisis.
  The Fed's latest survey of household wealth indicates--get this--44 
percent of Americans can't cover an emergency expense of $400. Forty-
four percent of Americans can't cover an emergency expense of $400 
without selling something or borrowing. For some, if their car breaks 
down, and they need $400 to fix their car to get to work, they have to 
go to a payday lender, and then their trouble starts. Then they have to 
go get a second payday loan and then a third payday loan.
  Income inequality is the worst since the 1920s. The racial wealth gap 
is enormous. The median Black household has only $11,000 to its name, 
one-twelfth of its White counterpart.
  The Fed can't solve all of our problems, but it can make them worse. 
Right now, the Fed seems puzzled by why low unemployment is not 
producing more inflation. Perhaps it is because more Americans are 
struggling paycheck to paycheck. They can't bid up the price of goods 
until they get out of debt. Yet even in the face of continued low 
inflation, there are those pushing for rate increases to give 
bondholders better returns. Others want to go back to some of the same 
banking practices that brought about the financial crisis.
  The independence of the Fed is critical but only if it is used to 
make decisions based on data and experience, not ideology. That is 
exactly what Ben Bernanke and Janet Yellen did over the past decade in 
helping to guide the Nation to one of the longest lasting recoveries in 
our history.
  Go back to the year 2010. We know when President Obama took office, 
we were losing 800,000 jobs per month in this country--700,000 the 
second month--hundreds of thousands, millions of jobs at the beginning 
of his administration.
  Starting in 2010, in large part because of the auto rescue and other 
things, our economy began to turn around. Since 2010, we have had job 
growth in every single quarter--every single quarter--since the auto 
rescue. President Trump loves to take credit for the job growth month 
after month. The fact is, it was launched early in the Obama years, and 
we have been able to sustain it--not economic growth to the level we 
want, not job growth to the level we want, certainly not pay increases 
to the level we want but something.
  I hope Governor Powell will uphold that tradition that Chairman 
Bernanke and Chairwoman Yellen began.
  I plan to support Governor Powell's nomination. I urge my colleagues 
to do the same.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Idaho.
  Mr. CRAPO. Mr. President, I, too, rise in support of the nomination 
of the

[[Page S450]]

Honorable Jerome, or ``Jay,'' Powell to be the Chairman of the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
  I appreciate this opportunity to immediately follow my colleague 
Senator Brown, as he and I serve together in leading the Banking 
Committee on critical issues like this. Senator Brown has very well 
described a number of the critical aspects of what this nomination 
means to America. I don't think there is any overstating the importance 
of this nomination--one of the very few most important nominations any 
President gets to make.
  The Federal Reserve Chairman plays a critical role in shaping the 
U.S. and global economic landscape as well as the regulations affecting 
financial institutions and markets.
  If confirmed to this position, Governor Powell would be central to 
ensuring a safe and sound financial system while also supporting a 
vibrant, growing economy. He will play a key role in right-sizing 
Federal regulations and alleviating unnecessary burdens, a stated goal 
of the Federal Reserve. He would also Chair the Federal Open Market 
Committee, the body charged with making key decisions for the Nation's 
monetary policy.
  Governor Powell has a unique background, which will help him lead the 
Federal Reserve. He has demonstrated his understanding of the markets 
and regulations during his tenure over the past 5 years at the Federal 
Reserve.
  Most recently, he has served as Chairman of the Fed's Committee on 
Supervision and Regulation, a highly important and impactful position.
  Governor Powell previously served as Assistant Secretary and Under 
Secretary of the Treasury under President George H.W. Bush, where he 
was responsible for policy affecting financial institutions, the 
Treasury market, and other critical areas of our economy. He also has 
firsthand experience in investment banking and was a partner in the 
Carlyle Group before being appointed to the Board of Governors.
  Governor Powell was reported out of the Banking Committee with 
overwhelming bipartisan support last year and was recently approved 
again this year with near-unanimous support. If confirmed to this new 
role, I look forward to continuing our work together with Governor 
Powell on a host of important issues before the Banking Committee.
  I support this nomination today and urge all of my colleagues to do 
the same.
  Thank you.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Utah.
  Mr. LEE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to engage in a 
colloquy with Mr. Flake, the Senator from Arizona.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                                Earmarks

  Mr. LEE. Mr. President, if you have been following the circus in this 
town long enough, you probably remember earmarks, the infamous special 
interest spending provision that party leaders used to sprinkle over 
unpopular legislation, sort of like heavily subsidized sugar.
  Even if you aren't familiar with this concept, you may be familiar 
with specific wasteful earmarks, such as the infamous $223 billion 
``bridge to nowhere'' in Alaska or the $3.4 million turtle tunnel in 
Florida, which was precisely what it sounds like, a 13-foot-long 
underground tunnel that was intended not for people, not for 
automobiles, not for train traffic but for turtles, or the so-called 
``monuments to me,'' buildings that politicians named after themselves.
  Earmarks were everything Americans couldn't stand about Washington, 
DC. They enabled corruption, and they facilitated waste. They wreaked 
of entitlement. They were the swamp, and then they went away for 7 
wonderful years and counting. They went away because Republicans banned 
them after the 2010 election cycle, when the tea party wave rolled 
through Washington, lifted by an anti-cronyism message. Now some 
politicians in the House of Representatives are trying to bring 
earmarks back. Now, I have heard some bad ideas in my time in the 
Senate, but this one takes the cake.
  Just like in a horror movie, the swamp thing is coming back to life--
or at least it is trying to--even after we hit it in the face with a 
shovel.
  Earmark fans never left Washington, of course. They have just been 
lying low, waiting for memories of their waste and abuse to somehow 
fade from our public consciousness, from our awareness, and our 
discussions about Washington.
  Now, 7 years later, these politicians and their special interest pals 
think they have found a nifty argument to rehabilitate pork-barrel 
spending. They point to the dysfunction in Congress and say earmarks 
would somehow make all of that better. It is a little bit like saying: 
There is a fire over here, let's pour some gasoline on it and see what 
happens.
  Sure, these offenders admit earmarks are frequently unseemly. They 
have to acknowledge that. There is no getting around that point, but 
they claim earmarks are a kind of industrial lubricant for the sausage-
making factory that is Congress.
  According to them, bringing earmarks back will get the machine 
churning out sausage again, just like before. Like many terrible 
political arguments, this one has some acknowledgeable, superficial 
appeal.
  Congress is, indeed, dysfunctional, and earmarks probably would make 
it easier for some people in Congress, some party leaders and others, 
to buy votes for their bills, but why should we believe our problems 
would be solved if we just hand more power over to the already powerful 
few in Congress, if we make it easier for them to pass unpopular bills 
like ObamaCare or massive amnesty?
  It was the elites from both parties who reduced Congress to its 
present lowly state. The public despises Congress, and it certainly is 
not because we killed earmarks. It is because the public distrusts the 
elites who rule them and the awful unrepresentative laws they passed 
with the help of earmarks, no less, prior to the 2010 election cycle, 
when the American people said: Enough is enough when it comes to 
earmarks.
  Now, the fight over earmarks is really a fight over two very 
different, competing visions of how Congress should govern. The 
Washington establishment likes the current system, where just a few 
lawmakers negotiate and write bills behind closed doors.
  This system, itself, works great for the swamp. If you like the 
swamp, then you probably love earmarks. It keeps cash flowing through 
certain offices and their alumni's lobbying shops on K Street. There 
are tough decisions made in secret without any accountability or 
fidelity to the public, to the people we represent.
  This corrupt system excludes all but a handful of well-positioned 
Representatives and Senators. So it effectively disenfranchises 
hundreds of millions of Americans whose representatives have little say 
over what actually passes into law. Bringing back earmarks would only 
make that situation worse.
  An alternative system would be one of transparency, of 
decentralization, of legislative accountability. Representatives and 
Senators would write legislation collaboratively in the open for all to 
see, forcing popular compromises and, yes, from time to time, taking 
tough votes.
  The reason Congress doesn't work like this right now is because the 
establishment is afraid of what the public might see and how they might 
vote in response to what they see. Governing out in the open would 
require Members to do the hard work of learning about issues before 
forming coherent positions.
  The present broken system is much easier, at least in this critical 
respect: It lets a small handful of lawmakers do all the thinking and 
the scheming, and it rewards docile lawmakers with the occasional 
earmark to tout to their constituents back home, to tout to them as if 
to ask: Aren't I wonderful?
  Earmarks would make life better for politicians, in other words, but 
it would make life worse for the country, much worse. That we are even 
considering such a bargain; that it is even being discussed as a 
serious matter in the House of Representatives is an insult to logic 
and is exactly why Congress is held in such widespread public disdain.
  Eventually, I believe, Congress will reform itself. As the old adage 
goes: ``If something cannot go on forever, it won't,'' but it will take 
a lot of painful decisions before we get to that point.

[[Page S451]]

We will have to struggle hard to extricate ourselves from the mess.
  Bringing back earmarks would represent a step backward in this 
struggle--back to cronyism, back to waste, and, yes, back to the 
swamp. This is something we cannot allow. This is something that cuts 
against our very interests as Americans and as Members of an 
institution that has called itself the world's greatest deliberative 
legislative body.

  So I would ask my friend from Arizona, Senator Flake, for his 
thoughts on the matter and what he thinks about the wisdom, or lack 
thereof, in bringing back this horrible tradition.
  Mr. FLAKE. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Utah. Let me just 
say that during a televised, bipartisan meeting recently at the White 
House, the President suggested that we might be more collegial around 
here, more efficient in Congress, if we would just bring back earmarks. 
The reaction from the lawmakers present was decidedly mixed. Some 
cheered that declaration, but most of us, I have to say, recoiled at 
the thought.
  As someone who served in Congress during the gluttonous earmarking 
era, when pork was used regularly to buy and sell Congressmen's votes, 
I can tell you firsthand this is an idea that nobody ought to be 
laughing at or embracing. Amidst public corruption investigations and a 
constant stream of embarrassing headlines about sweetheart deals for 
family and friends, Congress was forced to place a moratorium on 
earmarks about 7 or 8 years ago.
  Earmarking does not improve the legislative process. In fact, it 
compromises Members into ignoring unethical behavior and voting for bad 
bills that they would otherwise oppose. Remember, ObamaCare was 
approved with just a single vote being secured with an earmark--the one 
that was derided as the ``Cornhusker kickback.'' Likewise, when 
Senators receive earmarks, they are agreeing to support hundreds of 
other earmarks stuffed into an appropriations bill.
  When people say the appropriations process would be a lot smoother, 
would work a lot better with earmarks, I would respond by saying that 
there was a period of about 10 years when earmarks really hit the high 
point, in 1994 or 1995 through 2006. I served in the House from 2001 to 
2012, and during that time we had earmarks for part of the time and 
went without earmarks part of the time. And 2005, I think everybody 
recognizes, was the high point--or the low point, if you want to put it 
that way. There were a total of 16,000 earmarks spread across 12 
appropriations bills and 1 authorization bill, worth about $30 billion.
  One would think that if we had that much to grease the skids in 
Washington, we should have been able to pass all appropriations 
measures and move through the process. We would have a more collegial, 
compliant body. During that time, in 2005--I just checked--we passed 
only five appropriations bills in the House--only five. We ended up 
with an omnibus bill, and that was when Republicans controlled the 
House, the Senate, and the White House.
  So this notion that we have to have earmarks, and if we just get back 
to earmarks then this place will run smoothly and we will get through 
the appropriations bills--with 16,000 earmarks, worth about $30 
billion, only five appropriations bills were approved.
  We all remember too well the indoor rain forest in Iowa, the teapot 
museum in North Carolina, and, of course, the bridge to nowhere in 
Alaska. When a challenge was made to that infamous bridge and other 
pork projects, not-so-veiled threats were leveled at Senators and 
Members of Congress who dared question their colleagues' projects.
  We simply cannot go back to that time.
  I remember well during that time one particular episode when we were 
all in HC-5 of the House basement. It was during the appropriations 
season, and all of a sudden one Member ran into the room just 
breathless. He had the list--the list from the Appropriations 
Committee--as to who was getting the earmarks and who wasn't. It was 
largely a staff-driven process. But then everybody would--the thing 
was, we have to get these earmarks; we have to go announce them quickly 
in the House before the Senators take credit for them. That was the 
atmosphere at that time. That was not a high point. That is not 
something we want to return to.
  I was looking at some of what I said in the House at that time and 
some of what I quoted when we were trying to get rid of them in 2009. 
At that time, The Hill newspaper had reported that a prominent lobbying 
firm was the subject of a Federal investigation into potentially 
corrupt political contributions. It had given $3.4 million in political 
contributions to no less than 284 Members of Congress.
  There were lobbying shops that were set up for that purpose--simply 
to be at the intersection of earmarks and policy.
  The Hill also reported on February 10, 2009, that this firm, which 
specialized in obtaining earmarks in the defense budget for a long list 
of clients was ``recently raided by the FBI.''
  The New York Times noted that the same lobbyist for that firm ``set 
up shop at the busy intersection between political fundraising and 
taxpayer spending, directing tens of millions of dollars in 
contributions to lawmakers while steering hundreds of millions of 
dollars in earmark contracts back to his clients.''
  This is a process that simply is too tough to police when it gets 
this way.
  During my time in the House, over a series of a number of years, I 
went to the House floor literally hundreds of times to challenge 
individual earmarks in these spending projects. For those who think 
that you can go and challenge these earmarks and have somebody say 
``Yes, all right, I didn't want to spend money on that teapot museum 
anyway; that is a bad idea,'' that rarely happened. In the hundreds of 
times I went to the floor to challenge earmark spending, there was only 
one vote that I won--only one in hundreds of times. That is because the 
process of logrolling takes over, where one Member will say: I will 
protect your earmark if you protect mine. It was more likely that I 
would get 30, 40, 50 votes, and if I was challenging a popular 
appropriator, I would get even fewer because nobody wanted to challenge 
them because their own earmarks would be threatened.

  This is not a process that we want to go back to. This is not 
something that we should be proud of in our history. Several of our 
colleagues ended up in jail. One of them actually had an earmark bribe 
menu printed, in hand, on his congressional letterhead which read: If 
you want an earmark for this much, here is what it will cost you, under 
the table. He ended up doing time in prison. Not every Member did that, 
obviously, but it is a process that is too difficult to control.
  Here is the worst part about earmarks generally. Some will say that 
it is just a fraction of spending; it is just a couple of percentage 
points off the Federal budget, which is true. But the problem is, once 
you get back into earmarking, the Appropriations Committee spends an 
inordinate amount of time--the majority of its time--focusing on that 1 
or 2 percentage points of the funding and gives up its oversight 
responsibilities on the other 98 percent of the budget.
  We simply don't do the oversight that we should be doing on the 
Federal agencies and how they spend this money. That is the worst part 
of earmarking--that we simply give up oversight. Yes, we pay a lot of 
attention to that 1 or 2 percent of funding, but we give up oversight 
on the rest, effectively.
  So I hope we don't go there. That is why I am introducing bipartisan 
legislation, joined by my colleague from Utah, to permanently ban all 
congressional earmarking. Senators McCaskill, Toomey, McCain, Lee, 
Portman, Johnson, Rubio, Ernst, Fischer, and Sasse are all on as 
cosponsors. I hope that when this is brought to the floor, it passes, 
and we don't go back to this practice of earmarking.
  I turn back to my colleague from Utah to hear what other thoughts he 
has on the subject.
  Mr. LEE. Mr. President, I am grateful for the work that has been done 
by the Senator from Arizona on this topic.
  One of the first times I remember seeing the Senator from Arizona on 
TV, many years before I was elected to the Senate, was while he was 
serving in the House of Representatives. I saw him interviewed on 
national television, talking about this issue--talking about the 
corruption that inevitably flows

[[Page S452]]

from a system that allows for favors like these to be handed out. I 
remember the immense respect I had for this man whom I did not yet know 
and wouldn't come to know for another decade or so, but who was willing 
to call out something that he believed was contrary to public policy, 
contrary to any system that would result in a good consequence, a good 
outcome for the American people.
  I also appreciate the comment he made a moment ago about a familiar 
refrain by defenders of earmarks. Senator Flake mentioned that over 
time people would point out that earmarks were, even during their 
heyday, maybe representing a couple of percentage points of total 
Federal spending. Well, that may be true, if you want to put it that 
way, in those terms, as they inevitably did at the time, quite 
persistently. But it overlooks a few things. It is a much larger 
percentage, of course, of discretionary spending, and of domestic 
nondefense discretionary spending could even be a larger percentage. 
But more to the point, something that is only 2 percent doesn't 
necessarily mean that it is having a favorable impact and that it is 
not having an impact that is itself very significant.
  When you look at a mile-long train, the engine car might represent 
only about 2 percent of the total length of the train, but it is what 
is driving the train. It is what is determining where the train goes, 
and if that train is going in a wrong direction, that can be very bad. 
So I have always found unpersuasive the initially persuasive argument 
that this is just a tiny segment of Federal spending.
  At the end of the day, earmarks represent everything that we are 
uncomfortable with about Washington. Moving back to them would 
represent a departure from a very favorable reform that we had in this 
body 7 years ago.
  So I would ask Senator Flake, who has served in Congress longer than 
I have and who has seen this, to tell us what he fears most about 
bringing back earmarks.
  Mr. FLAKE. Well, I thank the Senator from Utah. One of the things I 
fear most is that we are having a tough enough time controlling 
spending.
  Dr. Coburn, who served in the House--I admired his time there. He 
went after earmarks and after a lot of these appropriations, and he did 
the same thing when he came to the Senate until the last day he was 
here. He had a saying. He said: ``Earmarks are the gateway drug to . . 
. spending addiction.''
  What he meant by that is if you give an earmark in an appropriations 
bill, some people will say ``Well, it is just an earmark for a couple 
of million dollars for a Rock and Roll Hall of Fame''--that was 
actually one. The problem is, once you get your earmark there, you are 
obligated to support that entire bill, no matter how ballooned it 
becomes.
  During the period, particularly in 2001 to 2006, boy, we bloated up a 
lot of appropriations bills. We were running basically at almost a 
surplus in 2001, and by the time we got to 2006, it was anything but, 
and nondefense discretionary spending and defense spending related to 
earmarks increased significantly. It just was not a good trend.
  So what I fear most is that we have been able to have some control on 
nondefense discretionary spending, and the growth of that has been 
slower than other things, but once you start getting earmarks in these 
bills, then you will be obligated to support them no matter what. Then 
you support bloated appropriations bills just to protect your earmark. 
The process of logrolling takes effect--I protect yours if you protect 
mine.
  That is one thing I fear.
  I turn it back to the Senator from Utah.
  Mr. LEE. Mr. President, Senator Coburn said this is the ``gateway 
drug'' for big government. That is such an appropriate analogy. It 
reminds me of a news clip that I saw a couple of years before I ran for 
the U.S. Senate, when there was coverage of a very large spending bill 
that came up short--and those on the news commented at the time: Well, 
it is well understood in Washington that what is now going to have to 
happen is they are going to have to add probably tens of billions of 
dollars to this bill, which they will do, and they will end up getting 
it passed by adding these ``sweeteners'' as they call them--earmarks, 
essentially--in order to get people to vote for them for the same 
reason that Senator Flake just mentioned.
  The dangers of bringing back earmarks are numerous, and it is my 
strong view that we should not do that. We should avoid this like the 
plague.
  Thank you.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Mississippi.
  Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to speak as in 
morning business.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                             Senate Reform

  Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, the Senate voted yesterday to reopen the 
government. I am glad that cooler heads and bipartisan good will 
prevailed before too much damage was done, but where do we go from 
here?
  The leadership of both Houses needs to negotiate appropriations caps 
for the rest of this year and all of next year. We all need to do our 
part to make sure this is done immediately. As a matter of fact, half 
of that job is practically done. Our colleagues in the House have a 
promise from the Speaker of the House to consider a Defense 
appropriations bill at the spending level set by the most recent 
National Defense Authorization Act. That amount is $700 billion and 
represents an increase of $88.6 billion over last year's enacted 
spending level--a welcome development. It would seem to make sense for 
this body to adopt that figure in the Senate bill, and the job would be 
halfway done. I hope our leaders will not wait until the week after 
next to get us an agreement on domestic spending.
  Let's not approach the next few days as if the battle lines are again 
drawn. Rather than using the coming days to suit up for the next 
showdown, perhaps we can work to strengthen the Senate so that it does 
the governing that our Founders envisioned, the governing that the 
statesmen who preceded us have protected. Americans do their jobs day 
in and day out, and they expect the same hard work from their elected 
representatives in Washington.
  In this regard, I would like to call attention to an op-ed by radio 
host Hugh Hewitt that was published online yesterday by the Washington 
Post. It is titled ``How to end the Senate's astonishing 
dysfunction''--a pretty graphic title for an op-ed. Mr. Hewitt warns 
that the institution of the Senate is ``careening toward widespread 
contempt, as happened to its Roman predecessor even before the emperors 
turned it into a fancy advisory council.'' One might be inclined to 
agree given the events of the past few days. Indeed, we have reached an 
embarrassing low point where a government shutdown is wrongly used as a 
bargaining chip for merely political gain. Mr. Hewitt concludes, ``It 
would be best for both parties to head off change imposed from pressure 
from the outside with change organically orchestrated from within by 
those with care for the body and its original design.''
  There are plenty of experts with ideas on how to create a more 
efficient and more effective Senate. Those ideas should be welcomed 
now. But those of us who took an oath in this Chamber and serve with 
the great legacy of this institution cannot stay on the sidelines. We 
occupy a unique position to drive reforms and to make the Senate 
better, ensuring its existence and its success for the next generation.
  There is real hope that these reforms have already begun. For 
example, there has been support by both Democrats and Republicans to 
change the procedural rules on executive and judicial nominations, 
shortening postcloture debate from 30 hours to 8 hours. The Democratic-
led Senate passed this rule on a temporary basis in 2013, with 
bipartisan support. Our colleague from Oklahoma, Senator Lankford, has 
a thoughtful proposal. He suggests that we permanently shorten 
postcloture debate on executive and judicial nominations. I agree with 
this proposal. The practice of confirming noncontroversial nominees is 
a courtesy historically given without needless delay to whoever 
occupies the Oval Office, to whomever the public has installed as 
President, Democrat and Republican alike.
  Delays are not only inconvenient as the new administration tries to 
put its team in place, but more importantly,

[[Page S453]]

delays keep highly qualified individuals from serving the American 
people--sometimes in positions affecting our national security or 
delivering disaster response.
  Like Mr. Hewitt, I believe we can do more to make the Senate work for 
the American people with ``an overhaul of its rules'' that ``preserves 
the rights of the minority in some cases . . . while also reflecting 
the speed at which the world moves today.''
  Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the op-ed by Mr. Hewitt 
be printed in the Record.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:

               [From the Washington Post, Jan. 22, 2018]

            How To End the Senate's Astonishing Dysfunction

                            (By Hugh Hewitt)

       Remember Roscoe Conkling? Few people do even though for 
     many years the New Yorker was the ``first man'' in the Senate 
     and king of patronage.
       How about Henry Cabot Lodge? ``Something about the League 
     of Nations?'' you ask, if you are going off your college days 
     or AP history prep. ``No, wait, Nixon's running mate!'' you 
     say, and head to Wikipedia to discover both fragments of 
     memory are right. The Lodges were a father-and-son team of 
     senators.
       How about Robert Taft and Mike Mansfield? Lyndon Johnson 
     was preceded as Senate majority leader by the man known as 
     ``Mr. Republican'' and followed by the good and decent 
     Mansfield, who went on to be a good and decent ambassador to 
     Japan under Presidents Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan. (When 
     was the last time anyone thought of a senator as such a 
     statesman that he or she could serve as ambassador to a key 
     ally for more than a decade under presidents from both 
     parties?)
       The point is that the Senate as an institution is--or was--
     quite the work of genius, but its individual members, no 
     matter how famous in their day, fade into background 
     characters in presidential biographies. (And most 
     presidential biographies don't really get read all that 
     much.) Now the Senate itself is careening toward widespread 
     contempt, as happened to its Roman predecessor even before 
     the emperors turned it into a fancy advisory council.
       Whether the decline began with the sliming of Robert Bork 
     or the segregationist filibusters of civil rights 
     legislation, the modern Senate has been on a downward spiral 
     for some time, and even current Senate majority leader Mitch 
     McConnell (R-Ky.), the Senate's most able leader of my 
     lifetime, isn't shrewd enough to reverse the trajectory in 
     the public's eyes. After another government shutdown, 
     President Trump and others are pushing hard to make the 
     apparently dysfunctional upper chamber a purely majoritarian 
     place. McConnell resists this, knowing that the rights of the 
     minority party are (or at least used to be) key impediments 
     on the country rushing into dangerous waters.
       What the Senate needs is an overhaul of its rules, one that 
     preserves the rights of the minority in some cases--key 
     legislation, for example, and perhaps appointments to the 
     Supreme Court--while also reflecting the speed at which the 
     world moves today. Simple majorities on appropriations and 
     time limits on debate over minor nominees are two obvious 
     reforms. They could be traded for agreement on the high court 
     vacancies, formalizing the modern precedent established by 
     McConnell of no nominations in an election year but 
     consideration and votes on nominees from the year prior such 
     as Anthony M. Kennedy. The same deal could also include 
     changes to the ``Byrd Rule,'' which gives the Senate 
     parliamentarian broad sway over what is allowed under budget 
     reconciliation--an extraconstitutional expansion of the 
     parliamentarian's powers that makes sense only under a Cubist 
     understanding of how the Senate is supposed to operate.
       Now, with the shock of the shutdown very palpable, 
     McConnell and his minority counterpart, Charles E. Schumer 
     (D-N.Y.), should empower a small group of widely liked and 
     respected members to fashion a package of reforms with the 
     only guarantee being that their work product receive an up-
     or-down vote made effective by a simple majority.
       The Senate's dysfunction is astonishing to Americans who 
     have to make things actually run and who have to do their 
     jobs to keep their jobs. Trump has shrewdly taken aim at the 
     Senate's vulnerability as an issue. It would be best for both 
     parties to head off change imposed from pressure from the 
     outside with change organically orchestrated from within by 
     those with care for the body and its original design.

  Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, we can do more to streamline nominations, 
and we can do more to prevent the next budget stand-off.
  I want to remind my colleagues of the bipartisan work that has been 
done by Senate Appropriations members--Republican and Democratic--in 
just the past year. Eight of the twelve annual appropriations bills 
passed out of committee last year. Most passed unanimously, with 
unanimous votes from Republicans and Democrats in the full 
Appropriations Committee. The remaining four were released as 
chairman's marks.
  Let me recount the work that was done last year.
  On July 13, 2017, the full Appropriations Committee, on a bipartisan 
basis, unanimously approved the fiscal year 2018 Military Construction 
and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies appropriations bill. The vote 
was 31 to 0.
  On July 20, 2017, the committee unanimously--again by a vote of 31 to 
0--approved the fiscal year 2018 Agriculture, Rural Development, Food 
and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies appropriations bill.
  Also on July 20, the committee approved the fiscal year 2018 Energy 
and Water Development appropriations bill by a vote of 30 to 1--still 
an overwhelming bipartisan vote on the part of the Appropriations 
Committee.
  On July 27, 2017, the Appropriations Committee unanimously, by a vote 
of 31 to 0, approved the fiscal year 2018 Transportation, Housing and 
Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act.
  Also on July 27, the Appropriations Committee approved the fiscal 
year 2018 Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act. That was by a vote of 30 to 1--overwhelmingly 
bipartisan.
  On the same day, July 27, the committee unanimously approved the 
fiscal year 2018 Legislative Branch appropriations bill.
  I could go on and on. Two more:
  In 2017, the full Appropriations Committee approved the Labor, Health 
and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies appropriations 
Bill. The vote then was a little closer--29 to 2--but still 
overwhelmingly bipartisan by a pretty evenly divided Appropriations 
Committee.
  On September 7--well before the end of the fiscal year--the Senate 
Appropriations Committee unanimously approved the 2018 Department of 
State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs appropriations bill.
  All of these bills and then four chairman's marks have been available 
to this Senate for consideration, and not a single one of them has been 
brought to the floor. What would be the reason for that? I think 
Members of the majority would say it is because we couldn't get 60 
votes for cloture on a motion to proceed, and realizing that we 
couldn't get the 60 votes, we decided not to burn the time that we 
needed for other considerations, such as nominations or tax reform or 
other legislation that had a chance. Members of the minority party 
would probably say we couldn't get to a realistic caps agreement for 
domestic spending and for defense spending, and so there was no point 
in doing that, so we wouldn't agree to the 60 votes. But for whatever 
reason, citizens should know and Members should know that the 
Appropriations Committee did its work, and they had bills within the 
caps available to them, that were available for consideration. Yet, for 
whatever reason, they were not allowed to come to the floor for a vote.
  Shouldn't we make a commitment to at least bring one bill or at least 
a minibus, combining three bills, to the floor and see if Members can 
work their will during this calendar year of 2018?
  Annual appropriations bills should be passed in committee and then 
should come to the floor for a vote. This is how the spending process 
ought to work. We can do that more easily with a budget deal. We can do 
it with a bipartisan agreement on spending caps, which is the next big 
item to be negotiated. We need to eliminate sequestration, and we need 
to agree to defense and domestic spending levels. As I say, the work is 
already halfway done for us. A parade of weeks- or months-long 
continuing resolutions is not how we should be funding the government, 
and we have a resounding agreement to that statement from Members on 
both sides of the aisle.
  The government shutdown this week was unfortunate, but it does not 
mean we have to continue the Senate's ``downward spiral,'' as Mr. 
Hewitt describes. We now have an opportunity for reform and for 
reflection about how we want to shape the future of this institution. I 
hope my colleagues, with the support of majority and minority Members, 
will seize this opportunity to enact positive change.

[[Page S454]]

  Mr. President, I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Flake). The Senator from Oklahoma.


                         President Paul Kagame

  Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I am going to talk about something 
different than anyone else has talked about here, and there is a very 
good reason for it.
  First of all, to try to establish some credibility here, I have had 
occasion to spend quite a bit of time working on issues in Africa. In 
fact, I have had occasion over the last 23 years to make 156 African 
country visits. That is a lot of African country visits. We have 
friends there. I personally have friends there, intimate friends. We 
have worked on a lot of the military concerns they have, but this is an 
area where we have very close friends. So I am going to be singling out 
one close friend--but not to the detriment of the rest of them because 
we have many close friends, certainly as many as 32 country Presidents 
and Prime Ministers to whom we have been very close. But there is a 
reason for singling out one particular individual, who is Paul Kagame, 
President of Rwanda--two reasons. First, he is going to be coming in as 
the Chairman or President of the African Union in the next few months. 
He has already been elected. Second, he survived the Rwanda genocide, 
which arguably could be the greatest genocide of all time. On January 
28, he will become the President or Chairman of the African Union. This 
is really nothing short of a miracle. Rwanda is a miracle, and we have 
Paul Kagame and the people of Rwanda to thank for it.
  In 1994, one of the most atrocious genocides ever perpetrated 
occurred in this small East African country. In a period of about 100 
days, nearly 1 million Rwandans were slaughtered. As is always the 
case, the seeds of genocide were planted many decades before, but when 
it finally started in April of 1994, many thousands of Hutus used 
machetes and clubs to slaughter Tutsis. Those are two tribes people are 
very familiar with. In most cases, it was neighbors killing neighbors, 
even some family members.
  The horror was unimaginable. Fathers and mothers were forced to watch 
their children being hacked to death. One man was forced to beat his 
wife to death in order to spare their seven children from being 
tortured to death.
  Many Rwandans were lucky to survive and remember watching their 
parents and siblings being murdered. One individual whose name is 
Immaculee wrote a book, ``Left to Tell,'' which gives you an idea of 
what happened, the fact that there were people in her own community 
trying to kill her. They killed 70 percent--70 percent--of the entire 
tribe at that time.
  The world just watched as this slaughter took place. They did 
nothing. The United Nations had peacekeepers stationed in Rwanda, and 
they were ordered to withdraw and leave all the genocide to take place.
  The President of the United States was Bill Clinton. He did nothing. 
The world just stood by and watched. The horror was stopped only 
because of one man. That one man was Paul Kagame. In October 1990, Paul 
Kagame led a group of young Rwandan refugees from Uganda whose parents 
had fled the country's mass violence three decades before.
  You have to keep in mind that the President of Uganda is President 
Museveni. President Museveni and President Paul Kagame, both, came from 
the bush. They were good friends. He went there to try to save Rwandans 
at that time because he saw the genocide coming.
  What is even more amazing about Rwanda is their leader and what 
happened after that. Rwanda had two very different paths it could have 
taken. They could have taken revenge. Paul Kagame could have taken the 
strength he had--the new power that he had--and he could have gone 
after the other tribe that was there, the Hutus, and he could have 
started another genocide of his own. That could have happened. The 
other thing he could have done was the path of forgiveness and 
reconciliation. This is the path of hard work, where the Tutsis who 
survived the genocide would have to learn how to forgive and live 
alongside the same Hutus who killed their family members. This is the 
path of rebuilding a nation from the ground up so that together they 
could have a common future.
  We now know which path Rwanda chose. President Kagame led them down 
the path of reconciliation. There are a lot of people who helped to 
make this happen. One of the individuals, who I happen to be personally 
fond of, who is deceased now, was Chuck Colson. Do you remember him? He 
spent time in prison. He started a fellowship and was very actively 
involved in the reconciliation process. In many cases, the Hutus who 
committed genocide against the Tutsi families would seek forgiveness 
from that family and then achieve reconciliation by building a home 
together for the Tutsi survivors who lived through this. It may seem 
like a small gesture, but it allowed the healing and forgiveness 
process to work. Together, the Hutus and the Tutsis are rebuilding 
their nation as Rwandans working together.
  I had one experience that I watched after this happened. My wife 
called this to my attention. In Rwanda, they build a certain kind of 
basket that is different from that in any other country. After the 
reconciliation, there they were--the Hutu and the Tutsi young women--
making these baskets. Then, Paul Kagame worked out a deal with several 
department store marketing areas in the United States. Macy's was one 
of them. They started selling the baskets. It was a great boon for 
them. But, anyway, Paul Kagame should be credited for this amazing 
transformation of the nation to a thriving, successful country. This is 
paying great dividends.
  I was in Rwanda most recently in October. I have been there eight 
times. Each time I go, I am surprised by what I see. Let me mention 
five things that are unique to Rwanda. First, there is not a piece of 
litter anywhere in Rwanda. There is nothing. You can't find any litter. 
In fact, the last Saturday of every month, they have a program where 
everybody joins together and they pick up every bit of trash and 
everything else. That doesn't sound like very much, but you notice the 
difference when you are there.
  The second thing that is different about them is their 
infrastructure. Rwanda is known as the Land of a Thousand Hills. They 
don't have any level areas in Rwanda. Not long ago, I remember going 
for an hour and a half, between the hill area and the mountain area, on 
a road that was perfectly paved. That is one thing you would expect to 
see in the United States. There are no potholes--nothing. It was a 
highway that you would expect to find anywhere except in Africa. They 
are known for this.
  Third, the people are hard workers. I mentioned that there aren't any 
flat areas there. Every square foot in Rwanda is used to grow 
something, from the bottom of the peaks. Everything is there. They are 
hard workers. They grow tea, coffee, potatoes, and other crops. They 
are all being cultivated across the entire country, and it is all hilly 
country. There is no place else where that is actually taking place. It 
is hard work. You do it mostly by hand. They are able to feed 
themselves and export more valuable crops abroad.
  Fourth, it is safe. You wouldn't expect a country that has gone 
through the most devastating genocide--maybe in history--to be a safe 
place to walk around. Yet it is. You can walk there at nighttime. It is 
safer than Washington, DC.
  The fifth thing that is unusual about this is that the economy is 
booming. Everywhere you look in Rwanda, construction is happening. In 
just the last few years, they built new hotels and a convention center, 
and they are now working on a new airport to facilitate all the growth 
and tourism that is coming there.
  These are my observations, but President Kagame's leadership is not 
just resulting in visible changes. Numbers back up what I have seen. 
Since he became President in 2000, Rwanda has experienced a GDP growth 
of 8 percent.
  This is interesting because we are, through our tax bill, going to be 
increasing our GDP in this country. There is a formula that no one 
disagrees with, and that is that for each 1 percent increase in growth 
in the GDP, that develops into $1 trillion over a period of 10 years of 
increased revenue. That is some of the revenue we are going to be using 
as a result of that.
  This is not the United States. This is in Africa. It is an 8-percent 
GDP

[[Page S455]]

growth. It is geared toward the poor people. That is why the population 
has lifted people out of poverty.
  Rwanda has dramatically improved its ease of doing business. The 
World Bank recently ranked Rwanda No. 1 for doing business in East 
Africa, No. 2 for doing business in Sub-Saharan Africa, and No. 41 in 
the world. That is remarkable when you consider that just a matter of 8 
years before, they were ranked 150th in the world for doing business. 
Now they are No. 41. Today you can start a business and get all the 
necessary permits to operate in just a few days.
  Rwanda has become a model for gender empowerment. Maybe this is going 
a little further than a lot of the people in this country are 
comfortable with, but Rwanda's constitution requires that 30 percent of 
decision-making positions be awarded to women. Today, it is now 60 
percent. So 60 percent of Rwanda's parliamentarians and 40 percent of 
its Cabinets are filled by women, including my good friend the Foreign 
Minister, Louise Mushikiwabo, and also the Ambassador that many of us 
know here because she is in the United States, Ambassador Mathilde 
Mukantabana.
  Rwanda has facilitated the development of a technology that no one 
would expect in Africa. Rwanda enjoys a nationwide fiberoptic 
infrastructure that will ensure that 95 percent of its citizens have 
access to high-speed 4G internet. Furthermore, it is integrating drone 
technology into its healthcare system to ensure that vital supplies, 
like blood, can reach patients all over the country.
  Rwanda has transformed its healthcare system. Life expectancy is now 
64.5 years. In 2000, it was 49 years. That has all taken place in the 
last few years. Child mortality rates are down more than two-thirds. 
Maternal mortality is down 80 percent. In 2000, there was only 1 doctor 
for every 66,000 people. Today there is 1 doctor for every 10,000 
people. Between those years, since the genocide has taken place, the 
malaria-related deaths plummeted by 85 percent.
  When you ask how these things were possible, the World Health 
Organization's country director said--and this is a quote, not a quote 
by me or someone in this country or by the President:

       The main ingredient is visionary leadership. It's about 
     having a target, saying we want to be there in the future and 
     understanding obstacles in the way.

  That visionary leader is Paul Kagame, and he gets results.
  That is the World Health Organization.
  Rwanda has established a highly capable and professional military. 
President Kagame actually studied in Fort Leavenworth in Kansas as part 
of the IMET Program in early 1990s. The IMET Program is a program where 
we train people from different countries to be leaders, and, of course, 
they develop an allegiance to our country. It is very successful. That 
is how this guy got started. He started in the IMET Program. His 
military background is very professional. As President, he has required 
the same of his forces. In the Rwanda Defence Forces, all military 
orders and instructions are issued through a chain of command. Rwanda's 
plan is to have a small, well-equipped army of 20,000 soldiers and a 
reserve component of 100,000. Their defense strategy is to sustain a 
combat-ready force capable of rapidly deploying to meet varying 
contingencies both at home and abroad still.
  They are delivering. Rwanda is the fifth largest contributor to the 
U.N. peacekeeping operations in the world. They currently have close to 
5,000 troops deployed in different missions, widely acknowledged as 
some of the best performing and most trusted peacekeepers in the world.
  Rwanda is also a major participant in the Eastern Africa Standby 
Force. That is a battalion of 850 troops and a police contingency of 
140 officers who are on standby for contingencies in East Africa. The 
countries that have gone together are Tanzania, Uganda, Burundi, Kenya, 
and Rwanda. These are the kinds of things that are exactly in line with 
what we should be helping them with and participating in and doing 
ourselves in the United States in terms of policy goals for Africa. We 
set up a way to help Africans help Africans, to train and assist 
regional partners so they will be capable of handling security threats 
before they become global crises. With the emergence of their 
peacekeeping mission, the regional cooperation--what we hope would 
happen--is happening. Paul Kagame is the reason Rwanda is leading the 
way. Rwanda is a clear example of what a strong, strategic partner 
should look like to the United States.
  It is not just me saying this. Rwanda is recognized around the world 
for its professional force. In fact, Rwanda's Defense Minister was 
among the few leaders who spoke at the United Nations Peacekeeping 
Defence Ministerial in November in Vancouver. Because of these amazing 
accomplishments, President Kagame is widely viewed as one of the most 
influential heads of state in the continent of Africa. Many leaders and 
observers praise him and his record. Benedict Oramah, President of the 
African Export-Import Bank, said:

       [Rwanda] is a country that was all but written off some two 
     decades ago. But just like the phoenix that died and arose 
     from its ashes, it emerges to become the shiniest star on the 
     continent. The shiniest in terms of governance, in terms of 
     the can-do spirit, doing those things that nobody ever 
     thought was possible.

  Again, that is the African Export-Import Bank talking about Paul 
Kagame.
  The head of the World Health Organization's Africa department said:

       I want to recognize [Rwanda's] remarkable leadership--its 
     creativity, tenacity and resolve--which have delivered 
     significant progress in advancing health and development for 
     the benefit of all your people. Your achievements in such a 
     short space of time are truly remarkable.

  That is the World Health Organization. He is talking about Rwanda, 
and he is talking specifically about the President.
  Some of you may remember former Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo, 
who came in after the person who was considered one of the great 
terrorists of all time, at that time, Sani Abacha. He came in to reform 
the leadership in Nigeria. His statement was: ``Rwanda has made 
difficult trade-offs, but as an African leader, I tell you that I would 
make the same trade-offs.''

  Yet his influence is recognized more clearly not by what people have 
said about him but by what his peers have asked him to do.
  In July of 2016, Kagame was selected by his peers to lead the effort 
to reform the African Union to make it more effective. He did not take 
this opportunity to raise his own profile, as most people would do; 
rather, he used it to build consensus and cast a vision for a future 
Africa that is no longer reliant on aid from the outside world. This is 
very significant because when you talk to people in the street about 
Africa and the things we do with Africa, the first thing they say is 
that Africa is always having to be supported by us, that we are pouring 
money into Africa and they are not able to do things on their own.
  This was the first time he had made this statement--that Africa 
should no longer be reliant on aid from outside nations. Within months, 
he developed a reform package that was focused on four categories. This 
is significant.
  The first one is that the African Union has to be focused on key 
priorities with a continental scope as opposed to a regional. This is 
something that has been happening for a long time, but they are moving 
from regional to starting to look after their entire continent. He 
wants the AU to focus on fewer but bigger issues that affect everyone 
on the continent.
  The second thing is that the AU must be connected with its citizens. 
Paul Kagame envisions doing this by establishing women and youth 
quotas, which I just mentioned a minute ago, across the institutions 
and by identifying appropriate ways and means to ensure that the 
private sector, Parliament, civil society, and citizens are 
participating in the process. He also wants to make the Africa passport 
available to all citizens so as to allow the free flow of people among 
the nation-states.
  The third thing is that the business of the AU must be managed 
effectively and efficiently with accountability, called the ``Rwanda 
way.''
  The fourth thing is to charge the member-states with providing all of 
the necessary funding to operate the African Union without having 
assistance from outside donors.
  Have you ever heard that before from anybody, let alone Africa? Yet 
that is what he said. He envisions doing this

[[Page S456]]

by each African country's imposing a 0.2-percent tariff on eligible 
imports. While not all observers agree, I admire this vision for each 
seeking its way to ungrip itself from the assistance of other nations 
to fund its governmental activities. That was his plan.
  What cemented his status as an influential power broker in Africa was 
that at the AU's next meeting, which was January of 2017, his peers at 
the AU--the African Union--affirmed the recommendations and charged him 
with actually implementing them. Once again, African leaders 
unanimously decided to trust Kagame. They chose him as the best leader 
to put reforms into action. So far, a number of the proposals have 
already been implemented.
  About half of the nation-states have already implemented the most 
difficult part, which is passing upon themselves a 0.2-percent import 
tariff and forwarding the proceeds to the African Union. They were 
paying for all of these things that were happening--that were proposed 
by Kagame--in the African Union. They actually have what we call real 
skin in the game. More and more nations are getting on board, and 
Rwanda is leading the way.
  To further cement his standing and influence, in July of 2017, Kagame 
was selected by his peers to chair the African Union in 2018, and here 
it is in 2018. So it is going to be happening. With genocide, Rwanda 
has a dark history, but because they chose the path of forgiveness and 
reconciliation instead of revenge, President Kagame has had and has 
used his national platform to be a nation of friendship and 
reconciliation between nations--nations that normally don't like each 
other, nations that normally are fighting against each other. Let's 
take a look at what he has actually done.
  First, he and the State of Israel have had a similar past as both 
having victims of genocide. We all know that. Many African nations--
about half of them--are Muslim-majority countries.
  President Kagame has used his influence in the region to facilitate 
Israel's desire to reengage in Africa. Prime Minister Netanyahu of 
Israel referred to Rwanda as the indispensable bridge on which Israel 
marched to return to Africa. In just the last 2 years, Prime Minister 
Netanyahu has been welcomed in several of the African capitals. I was 
with Prime Minister Netanyahu, and I can tell you that he was one who 
was so impressed with the work that has been done by Paul Kagame that 
he is able to invest himself in that continent of Africa, which he was 
never able to do before.
  At the United Nations, Rwanda has put itself at risk of widespread 
criticism in order to stand up for what is right. In 2014, Rwanda 
rotated onto the U.N. Security Council. While there, Rwanda abstained 
from an anti-Israel resolution so typical of the United Nations. It is 
always against Israel. When he did this, Rwanda blocked it from moving 
forward and prevented the United States from having to veto it. In this 
Chamber, we remember that. I remember the fact that we didn't want to 
be in a position to veto it, but what they were doing was totally 
unfair. We had one guy who was courageous enough to do it; he was Paul 
Kagame from Rwanda.
  More recently, Rwanda has been one of the few nations not to vote 
against the United States or condemn our decision to move our Israeli 
Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem.
  Rwanda is willing to take a stand for what is right. It keeps its 
word. It does not shake with fear at the possibility of intimidation.

  Kagame has also brought about the restoration of broken relationships 
with Africa. In 2016, he led the push to invite Morocco back into the 
African Union. This is an issue that a lot of people are concerned 
with. All the way back to the Bush administration, our Secretary of 
State at that time, Jim Baker, was trying his best to undo the damage 
that was done by Morocco to Western Sahara. Three decades ago, Western 
Sahara was taken from its homeland and put out in the middle of nowhere 
in the desert. I have been there several times. I wonder how a person 
can live out there.
  The problem was that Morocco was very rich, and Western Sahara was 
very poor. I testified before a House committee not too long ago, and I 
commented that Morocco has hired the most expensive lobbyists who are 
in Washington. Obviously, he gets his way on things that other people 
don't.
  Anyway, one of the problems was, because of the advantage that it has 
had, it has not been willing to come to the table. One of the reasons 
is that Morocco has been the only country to be considered an African 
country that is not part of the African Union. So what did Paul Kagame 
do? He brought them into the African Union. He was able to convince 
both the African Union and Morocco to allow Morocco to join so that 
they could get together and get something done. Hopefully, he is on the 
road to trying to end three decades of trauma that has taken place out 
in the desert.
  Has this effort soured our relations with Kagame? No. In fact, the 
impact has been just the opposite. Earlier this month, former German 
President Horst Kohler, the U.N. envoy for resolving the Western 
Sahara-Morocco dispute, traveled to Kigali to appeal for Kagame's help 
to resolve the situation. The U.N. recognizes Kagame's bringing Morocco 
into the African Union as an important step in resolving the problem of 
the Western Sahara.
  It is not just in Morocco that Kagame has made a difference. Let's 
look at others.
  South Sudan is another problem. The Sudan and South Sudan were the 
same country. South Sudan had been trying to gain its independence. It 
finally did gain its independence, and we thought everything would be 
fine when that happened. Unfortunately, that started a civil war in 
South Sudan. This is something that has been going on now for 3 years, 
and Paul Kagame is neck deep in helping resolve that conflict as well. 
Rwanda has peacekeeping troops in both countries, and the Sudanese and 
the South Sudanese forces do not target but they protect Rwanda. So we 
have two countries that are warring against each other, and we have 
Rwanda going in to try to resolve it. They both welcome Rwanda, and 
they trust Rwanda's military because they trust Kagame.
  It is tempting to think that Rwanda is a small country in the middle 
of nowhere that does not have a lot of influence, but that would be a 
mistake. Because of the results Kagame has been able to secure for his 
people and because of the personal relationships he has developed, 
Rwanda is among one of the most influential countries in Africa, 
considering the fact that when Kagame was inaugurated to his third 
term, no fewer than 22 heads of state from across Africa attended the 
festivities. That has never been done before--22 countries 
participating in the inauguration of a President. They came for Paul 
Kagame. The leaders of African nations that normally fight with each 
other were actually seen embracing one another live on TV. That just 
doesn't happen for no reason; that happens because they all trust and 
admire Paul Kagame.
  With all of this, it is no wonder that African leaders are 
increasingly looking to Rwanda and Kagame for a vision of how to move 
forward into the future. According to one reporter, the ``Rwanda 
model'' is becoming a hallmark phrase in Africa.
  Simon Allison writes: ``In Africa's . . . corridors of power--in the 
boardrooms of its banks, in closed-door Cabinet meetings, in donor 
discussions and interminable governance conferences--it is repeated 
like a mantra: `The Rwanda model. The Rwanda model. The Rwanda model.' 
''
  Kagame is advancing a vision of African leadership that is no longer 
reliant on the aid of outsiders--a total reversal. He wants to move his 
country and the whole continent away from dependence on foreign aid to 
bustling free market economies that enable the people to take care of 
themselves. In fact, he recently complained to his fellow peers at an 
African security summit meeting that they have relied too much on the 
international community to deal with their problems.
  This is a quote from him: ``A major pillar of institutional reform of 
the AU is a more focused and assertive Africa'' that is focused on 
solving its own problems. He said, ``We must take responsibility for 
ourselves, which doesn't exclude partners but they add to our 
efforts.'' He has clearly done that. That is the main thing in all the 
reforms we have talked about, is to get Africa out of that dependency 
mode, and he is actually doing it.

[[Page S457]]

  Last March, while speaking in London at the Wall Street Journal's 
Investing in Africa Conference, Kagame said, ``I want to see Africa get 
its act together'' so it is not reliant on Western intervention in its 
affairs. It is the same thing over and over again. He sees a future 
Africa that is more autonomous and capable of taking care of itself and 
taking care of its problems. It is kind of a vision that his peers are 
gathering around.
  We shouldn't misunderstand. Kagame is not saying that Africa should 
have no involvement with the United States or the West--far from it. 
What he wants is to have a peer-to-peer relationship instead of a 
donor-based relationship. He wants legitimate business relations 
between customers and suppliers, to join together African businesses 
and other international companies, including those in the United 
States.
  In Kagame's vision for a new Africa, African nations will have 
cooperation on security and on terrorism and on trade agreements with 
their friends, partners, and allies. He wants to end the days of 
reliance upon foreign governments to solve their problems. See, there 
it is again.
  Many leaders in Africa have desired this kind of a change, but few 
have had the position, the influence, or the clarity of focus to 
articulate with the kind of passion that is persuasive. It is only had 
by Paul Kagame. There are far fewer who have this kind of record of 
improving the lives of their own people in the way he has.
  This is exactly the kind of partnership that the United States should 
have with our friends and allies in Africa--should have but that we 
don't have at the present time. For too long, the United States has had 
the wrong policy toward Africa and African nations, and most Americans 
still think there is only 1 country on the continent of Africa rather 
than 54 independent states that make it up.
  U.S. policy toward Africa should be different. U.S. policy should be 
a partnership that focuses on helping Africans help Africans with three 
key components: security, trade, and diplomacy.
  The security goals of the United States in Africa should be focused 
on training and equipping key partners to be capable of addressing 
regional and continental terrorist threats that could ultimately affect 
the United States and to be capable of addressing regional security 
threats that develop in regions so that the U.S. military does not have 
to engage, so that it can do it instead of needing our involvement.
  This is AFRICOM's goal. AFRICOM is something that is fairly new. We 
once were a part of three different commands--the Central Command, the 
Pacific Command, and the European Command. Now we have AFRICOM as its 
own command, which was designed for that express purpose. We are 
increasingly meeting these goals and objectives.
  The second thing is that our trade focus in Africa should be on 
developing free trade agreements with African nations so that they have 
a reciprocal, peer relationship with our African trading 
partners. Fortunately, this is already the statutory policy of the 
United States, but it is not working that way. In 2015, a 10-year 
extension of the African Growth and Opportunity Act was signed into 
law. This is an appropriate policy for the near term, but long term it 
is not because we need to have the same kind of access to African 
nations as we provide to them. In this law, it explicitly states that 
the policy of the United States is to pursue free-trade agreements with 
African nations, but it doesn't back it up with anything.

  In my travels to Africa, I have seen many countries are ready for 
free-trade agreements, but the bureaucracies over here in the United 
States don't agree. They don't think they are ready. So I introduced 
the African Free Trade Initiative Act, which does two things.
  First, it requires a U.S. Trade Representative to articulate what 
African countries need to do to get ready for trade agreements with the 
United States. It is one thing for people over here or people who are 
desiring trade and not desiring trade to say: Well, Africa is not 
ready. What we are doing with this legislation is saying: We need to 
know from our Trade Representative what they need to do so they could 
be a part--they can get skin in their own game.
  Second, it requires the U.S. Trade Representative to coordinate with 
the Millennium Challenge Corporation and USAID so their aid dollars are 
focused on projects that will help prepare them for free-trade 
agreements with us. Now these provisions have passed and are signed 
into law so we are making that headway.
  The bureaucracies have all the tools they need, but they aren't 
willing to use them because they don't take Africa seriously, they 
don't view them as peers, and they look down on them because they are 
small, but this is a shame because the economies in Africa are growing 
faster than any other region in the world.
  Then there is diplomacy. Our diplomatic focus in Africa should be 
focused on building relationships and alignments with countries we can 
trust, that share our values and help us influence the rest of the 
continent and the world to be favorable to the United States. For too 
long, we have ridden on a high horse through Africa. We have been quick 
to chide them for mistakes they have made, and we have been slow or 
completely negligent in recognizing their accomplishments.
  Take Rwanda as an example. I have already articulated the miracle 
they have experienced, but when the people of Rwanda decided to amend 
their Constitution to allow President Kagame to run for an additional 
term, the Obama administration condemned them. They publicly shamed 
Kagame for the country's actions and doubled down when he ran for 
reelection. That administration did not have a category for the 
democratic process that was different from ours. They just didn't have 
the category for a new nation needing help, and so they were not 
helpful to them. That administration also failed to recognize the 
amazing progress Rwanda has made to improve their country and the 
health and education of their people, nor did they recognize the superb 
security assistance Rwanda provides in the region, and our relationship 
with Rwanda was negatively impacted by the Obama administration. We 
have become known as a condescending and unreliable partner in Africa. 
If we do not catch up and change our approach, our friends will find 
new partners, and we will be left alone.
  It is no secret how engaged China is on the continent. I think we all 
know that. Every time you travel through Africa, they say: Well, the 
United States tells you what you need, but we build what you need. Now, 
they don't do it with African labor and all that, but they have a 
reason for doing this. They understand how important Africa is going to 
be in the coming decades so they are treating African nations 
accordingly, as peers, as we should be doing.
  China has surpassed the United States as Africa's largest trading 
partner. We have been their largest trading partner for many years, but 
now that has changed and China has taken over. China funded the 
construction of the African Union's headquarters in Ethiopia. Their aid 
dollars go toward projects that are actually needed, and the projects 
happen much faster than compared to ours. The United States is falling 
behind and at great risk.
  Between now and 2030, the economies of African nations are expected 
to grow by an average of 5 percent a year, meaning the total size of 
their economies will nearly double in that time. By 2025, the continent 
will have a combined GDP of over $2.5 trillion and $1.4 trillion of 
that--that is more than half of that--will be consumer spending.
  Increasingly, Africa's growing middle class will continue to become 
highly attractive in the business world. By 2034, Africa is expected to 
have the world's largest working age population of 1.1 billion people, 
which could lead to a low-cost labor economic boom similar to what was 
experienced in East Asia after World War II. Our National Security 
Council has noted that these demographic and economic shifts will have 
enormous political consequences and that Africa's role in rural 
politics will dramatically change because of them.
  Implementing this policy will benefit our people, give us greater 
security, give us a stronger economy, and it will add to our influence 
in the world in the long run. These things we need to do, and we are 
not doing them now. So I

[[Page S458]]

am encouraging our administration to do it. We need to get these 
things. To implement this policy effectively, we must cultivate 
critical relations of influence with our like-minded friends in Africa. 
In the Middle East, we have Israel. In Europe, we have Great Britain. 
In Africa, we have Rwanda and Paul Kagame.
  So it is time to catch up. President Paul Kagame will soon be sworn 
in as the Chairman of the African Union. In him, we have a visionary 
leader who has accomplished great things for his country. He has also 
established himself as a highly influential figure among African heads 
of State because he has set a bold vision for the future of Africa that 
is autonomous, self-sufficient, and open for business. This vision is 
100 percent complimentary to what the U.S. policy should be in Africa.
  In recognizing this, it is my hope the Trump administration will 
embrace him and Rwanda as the American friends they are. We need to 
bring Rwanda close so we can work cooperatively with them to accomplish 
our shared goal. Rwanda and America are like-minded friends, and we 
should treat them accordingly.
  Let me conclude with a personal story that expands a little bit on 
this. I had an experience in 2000. In 2000, I was called by a friend in 
Rwanda, and his name is Charles Murigande. He called up and he said--
there is a program I have been involved in and others have been 
involved in, where we encourage them to have like we have in the U.S. 
Senate. We have weekly Prayer Breakfasts every Wednesday, and we 
encourage them to do the same thing. He called me up, and he said: We 
would like to have our first National Prayer Breakfast in Rwanda. Will 
you come over and speak? So I did.
  Well, 14 years later--this is quite a coincidence--in 2014, we were 
on another trip and planned to land in Burundi before going to 
Ethiopia, but then, for security reasons, we weren't able to land in 
Burundi so we stopped in Rwanda instead. Without any warning--now, keep 
in mind, Rwanda didn't know we were going to be there. We didn't know 
we were going to be there. There was no warning whatsoever, but when we 
got there, as a coincidence, the next day they were having their 14th 
annual Prayer Breakfast. They assumed, since I was their speaker at 
their first Prayer Breakfast 14 years before, I was there to give a 
speech, and so I did. I say this because Paul Kagame, 14 years before 
that happened and every year since then and then every year since this 
took place, was then leading both Prayer Breakfasts. So in addition to 
all of the virtues of Paul Kagame that I have been talking about--
perhaps too long--he is a strong man of faith, and it doesn't get any 
better than that.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Johnson). The Senator from Oregon.
  Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to speak for up to 
15 minutes.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                        Nomination of Alex Azar

  Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, very shortly, the Senate is going to take 
two votes on the President's nominees. The first is to confirm Jerome 
Powell as the next Fed Chair. Once that vote wraps up, the Senate will 
vote on whether to begin debate on the nomination of Alex Azar to be 
Secretary of Health and Human Services.
  This is one of the key roles in our entire Federal Government in 
caring for America's sick and vulnerable. Let me begin by saying that 
Mr. Azar does not come with the staggering ethical challenges of his 
predecessor, the first Trump HHS nominee, Tom Price.
  Here is my concern: Mr. Azar's nomination is a clear symbol of the 
President's broken promises on prescription drugs and pledge to secure 
better and more affordable healthcare for all Americans. At the outset 
of my remarks, I am going to start with the issue of skyrocketing 
prescription drug prices that now clobber millions of Americans at 
pharmacy windows across America. It is one thing for a Presidential 
candidate to have claimed he would just be too busy working to have 
time to golf and then spend almost 1 out of 3 days in office golfing. 
It is another thing altogether to promise cheaper prescription drugs to 
sick and vulnerable Americans who empty their pockets to pay for their 
medications only to abandon them completely once you are in office.
  Now, it was barely a year ago that Donald Trump stood before our 
country and said prescription-hiking drug companies were getting ``away 
with murder.'' Those were his words, not mine, not somebody in the news 
media. The President said the drug companies were ``getting away with 
murder.''
  Now he has nominated Alex Azar, a drug company executive with a 
documented history of raising drug prices, to lead the Department of 
Health and Human Services. From 2012 until last year, Mr. Azar--who is 
the head of Eli Lilly's American subsidiary; that is, Lilly USA--
chaired the U.S. pricing reimbursement and access steering committee, 
which gave him a major role over drug price increases for every product 
Lilly marketed across the country.
  On Mr. Azar's watch, the price of Forteo, a Lilly drug used to treat 
osteoporosis, more than doubled. The price of Effient, a Lilly drug 
used to treat heart disease, more than doubled. The price of Strattera, 
a Lilly drug used to treat ADHD, more than doubled. The price of 
Humalog, a Lilly drug used to treat diabetes, more than doubled, and 
these are only a few of the drugs that were under Mr. Azar's purview.
  Mr. Azar told the Senate Finance Committee that he had never--not 
even one time--signed off on a decrease in the price of a medicine, and 
when asked about that statement in his confirmation hearing, Mr. Azar 
was quick to say: That is just the way the system works, but he didn't 
give us any concrete examples of how he would buck that system if he 
became the head of the Department of Health and Human Services. It 
seems to me, given the fact that he was asked questions about what 
concrete ideas he had for reforming the system and carrying out the 
President's promises to hold down prescription drug prices, he came up 
empty. I guess that says he would fit right in with the Trump 
administration on prescription drug practices.
  In its first year, the Trump administration has made exactly no 
progress when it comes to tackling these skyrocketing pharmaceutical 
prices. They don't have any Executive orders that have any teeth in 
them. There don't seem to be any new initiatives at all. No new 
legislation has come from the Department or the White House. Perhaps, 
in my view, that is because the administration seems to be busy on 
other fronts, like taking healthcare away from those who need it, 
people who can least afford to have their bills climbing upward because 
of a decision made by a bureaucracy here in the Nation's Capital.

  This nomination, as you are going to hear Senators discuss tomorrow, 
is about more than just the administration's failure on prescription 
drugs. It is, in effect, a proxy on an entire healthcare agenda. This 
is really a referendum on a healthcare policy from this administration 
that I think is an abject failure.
  It is a year in now, and the administration's track record on 
healthcare is pretty clear. New data came out a few days ago showing 
that the number of Americans with health insurance dropped by more than 
3 million people. That means 3 million Americans are a sudden illness 
or injury away from the nightmare of personal bankruptcy, having to 
sell their home or their car or empty a retirement account to escape 
from under that mountain of medical bills.
  A very substantial part of that problem stems from the 
administration's sabotage on the Affordable Care Act. The 
administration cut the open enrollment period in half. That meant 
anybody who clicked on the internet, hoping to sign up this month, has 
found out that they are just too late. They slashed advertising budgets 
that helped reach the younger and healthier customers that make the 
private health insurance market affordable. And they made it harder for 
those having difficulty signing up for coverage to get a little bit of 
help in person.
  This sabotage agenda, in my view, is an attack on the kind of health 
insurance this administration says it is for. They say they are for a 
private health insurance market, but the fact is, what they have been 
doing is undermining

[[Page S459]]

the private health insurance market as part of their effort to 
undermine the Affordable Care Act. So this policy, perpetrated by a 
party and the President who professed to want to run this country like 
a business, certainly doesn't reflect the kinds of sound business 
practices we see from business leaders in my home State of Oregon.
  If that wasn't harmful enough, the administration also is allowing 
fraudsters to, once again, sell junk coverage insurance policies that 
aren't worth the paper they are printed on.
  A major part of the Affordable Care Act was laying down basic 
consumer protections for the private market. It was all about saying 
that Americans would no longer get stuck with junk insurance that 
turned out to be worthless when they actually suffered an injury or 
came down with an illness. I can't tell you what a step backward it is 
to see the sale of these junk insurance policies.
  Years ago, when I was director of the Gray Panthers, it was common to 
see older people buy 15 or 20 private health insurance policies to 
supplement their Medicare, and they weren't worth the paper they were 
written on. They were junk. Finally, we got that changed. We passed a 
law with teeth to change it.
  But now the Trump administration has, with respect to the private 
market and the Affordable Care Act, decided to turn back the clock and 
bring back junk insurance in the private insurance marketplace. So 
instead of working on a bipartisan basis to make the private health 
insurance market more affordable and competitive, the Trump 
administration has sabotaged those markets, hiking the number of 
Americans without coverage and sticking a whole lot of Americans with 
junk coverage that, in my view, is virtually guaranteed to fail them 
when they are most in need. The biggest threat their strategy poses on 
a basic level is that it wipes out the ironclad guarantee of protection 
for Americans with preexisting conditions. Guarantee of access to 
healthcare isn't worth much if you can't afford it, and the Trump 
administration is doing a bangup job of making healthcare unaffordable 
for those with preexisting conditions.
  The Trump administration has also undermined years of progress with 
respect to women's health. They attack the rule that says women have to 
be guaranteed no-cost access to contraception--one of the most popular 
healthcare rules in recent memory. Fortunately, the administration's 
action on that issue has been held up in the courts, but that is only 
one part of the anti-women's health agenda that plays out now.
  Just last week, the Trump administration overturned longstanding 
protections dealing with States and family planning providers. This, in 
my view, is an attack both on a woman's right to see the provider of 
their choosing and Planned Parenthood. The administration is also 
broadening the exceptions that give employers and universities say over 
what kinds of healthcare women can access.
  Here is how Mr. Azar described his perspective on that issue when he 
went before the HELP Committee. He said: ``We have to balance, of 
course, a woman's choice of insurance that she would want with the 
conscience of the employers and others.''
  We don't have to that. A woman's choice of healthcare is her choice--
her choice and nobody else's. The care she has access to and receives 
is not up to her employer and not up to her university. It is up to 
that woman and her physician. And now the administration is even going 
after protections for LGBTQ Americans.
  The bottom line is, the administration is doing a lot more to protect 
the perpetrators of discrimination than the victims. Healthcare is a 
right in America, but discrimination is not.
  The way Mr. Azar describes the position he is nominated to fill, it 
sounds as if he understands it. He said in his confirmation hearing: If 
I get this job, my job is to ``enhance and protect the health and 
wellbeing of all Americans.'' But he is not committed to reversing 
these kinds of anti-discriminatory practices I just described.
  When I heard Mr. Azar say it would be his job to ``enhance and 
protect the health and wellbeing of all Americans,'' I couldn't help 
but think back to the first nomination hearing the Finance Committee 
had for a Trump HHS nominee. Back then, Tom Price told the committee it 
would be his job at the Department just to administer the laws passed 
by Congress. He would be out of the legislative business. Once he got 
the job, he broke his word, and that has been the norm for the 
Department over the year. Congress has every reason to believe that is 
going to continue, regardless of the talking points Mr. Azar and 
administration officials use.
  Finally, I want to discuss Medicaid. Just in the last few weeks, the 
administration has begun giving States a green light to slap new and 
punitive requirements and other limits on Americans covered by State 
Medicaid Programs. My bottom line is, Medicaid is a healthcare program. 
The vast majority of those who count on Medicaid either already have a 
job or are unable to work due to old age and infirmity. We shouldn't be 
trying to make life harder for those folks. The action by the Centers 
for Medicare and Medicaid Services goes after people who are just 
trying to get by. It is a decision by bureaucrats in Washington, going 
after Americans who walk an economic tightrope, who might just be 
trying to take care of kids or elderly parents or struggling with a 
chronic condition. This looks, on Medicaid, like yet another 
ideologically motivated attack on a program that covers vulnerable 
Americans--all generations, from newborn infants to two out of three 
seniors. The Trump administration is giving States permission to attack 
it.
  Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent for 2 additional minutes.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, in a short while, the Senate will have a 
cloture vote on Mr. Azar's nomination to run the Department of Health 
and Human Services. The debate will be about a lot more than that. It 
is a question of whether the Trump administration should be allowed to 
take this country backward on health and to discriminate against 
Americans. It is a question of whether the attacks on Medicaid should 
continue and whether this administration will be held accountable for 
its broken promises on lower drug prices, insurance for all, no cuts to 
Medicare or Medicaid.
  I regret to say to the Senate today that I have no confidence that 
Mr. Azar will change course at the Department of Health and Human 
Services. I do not support his nomination, and I urge a ``no'' vote 
today.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, all postcloture time 
has expired.
  The question is, Will the Senate advise and consent to the Powell 
nomination?
  Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a sufficient second?
  There appears to be a sufficient second.
  The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk called the roll.
  Mr. CORNYN. The following Senators are necessarily absent: the 
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. Corker), the Senator from Arizona (Mr. 
McCain), and the Senator from South Carolina (Mr. Scott).
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Rubio). Are there any other Senators in 
the Chamber desiring to vote?
  The result was announced--yeas 84, nays 13, as follows:

                       [Rollcall Vote No. 19 Ex.]

                                YEAS--84

     Alexander
     Baldwin
     Barrasso
     Bennet
     Blunt
     Boozman
     Brown
     Burr
     Cantwell
     Capito
     Cardin
     Carper
     Casey
     Cassidy
     Cochran
     Collins
     Coons
     Cornyn
     Cortez Masto
     Cotton
     Crapo
     Daines
     Donnelly
     Duckworth
     Durbin
     Enzi
     Ernst
     Fischer
     Flake
     Gardner
     Graham
     Grassley
     Hassan
     Hatch
     Heinrich
     Heitkamp
     Heller
     Hirono
     Hoeven
     Inhofe
     Isakson
     Johnson
     Jones
     Kaine
     Kennedy
     King
     Klobuchar
     Lankford
     Leahy
     Manchin
     McCaskill
     McConnell
     Menendez
     Moran
     Murkowski
     Murphy
     Murray
     Nelson
     Perdue
     Peters
     Portman
     Reed
     Risch
     Roberts
     Rounds
     Sasse
     Schatz
     Schumer
     Shaheen
     Shelby
     Smith
     Stabenow
     Sullivan
     Tester
     Thune
     Tillis
     Toomey
     Udall
     Van Hollen
     Warner
     Whitehouse
     Wicker
     Wyden
     Young

[[Page S460]]


  


                                NAYS--13

     Blumenthal
     Booker
     Cruz
     Feinstein
     Gillibrand
     Harris
     Lee
     Markey
     Merkley
     Paul
     Rubio
     Sanders
     Warren

                             NOT VOTING--3

     Corker
     McCain
     Scott
  The nomination was confirmed.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from California.


                             Change of Vote

  Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, on rollcall No. 19, I voted yea. It 
was my intention to vote nay. I, therefore, ask unanimous consent that 
I be permitted to change my vote since it will not affect the outcome 
of the vote.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  (The foregoing tally has been changed to reflect the above order.)
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, the motion to 
reconsider is considered made and laid upon the table and the President 
will be immediately notified of the Senate's action.

                          ____________________



