

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 40 (Wednesday, March 7, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 40 (Wednesday, March 7, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H1450]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           ELECTION SECURITY

  (Mr. SCHNEIDER asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. SCHNEIDER. Mr. Speaker, the threat of foreign interference in our 
elections is real. Our intelligence chiefs are sounding the alarm that 
Russia views the 2018 election as a target for additional interference. 
And finally, yesterday, President Trump at last acknowledged Russian 
meddling and vowed to guard against it, saying: ``We won't allow that 
to happen.''
  But, Mr. Speaker, actions speak louder than words, and time and time 
again, this administration has proven unwilling to confront this 
threat. We learned this week that the State Department is not using any 
of the resources they have been given to counter election interference. 
U.S. Cyber Command Chief Admiral Mike Rogers said the President has not 
granted him authority to disrupt Russian hacking operations. And we are 
still waiting on the administration to impose sanctions on Russia 
passed by an overwhelming bipartisan majority in this Congress.
  This isn't a future concern. Americans voted in Texas primaries 
yesterday, and they are already heading to the polls in my State, 
Illinois, where early voting began on Monday.
  I urge the administration to get serious about this threat and 
support funding for the Election Assistance Commission and resources 
for State election officials on the front lines of this battle. This is 
not a partisan issue. It is about protecting our democracy and ensuring 
the integrity of every American's vote.

                          ____________________



