

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 17 (Wednesday, January 24, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 17 (Wednesday, January 24, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S478-S493]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE SESSION

                                 ______
                                 

                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, the Senate will 
proceed to executive session to resume consideration of the following 
nomination, which the clerk will report.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read the nomination of Alex 
Michael Azar II, of Indiana, to be Secretary of Health and Human 
Services.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The assistant Democratic leader.


                                  DACA

  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, we have 14 days, by our own established 
deadline, to do something about the Dreamers issue--about DACA.
  Why do we find ourselves at this place? Because on September 5 of 
last year, President Trump, as well as Attorney General Sessions, 
announced the end of the DACA protection program as of March 5 this 
year. The 780,000 young people who were undocumented in the United 
States and who came here as children were given a chance by President 
Obama to stay legally, be able to work legally, and not fear 
deportation. For the most part, they are students and workers who are a 
vital part of the community, and they have done good things in their 
lives and promised to do even more.
  This issue was created by the decision made by President Trump to put 
an end to this program. He made that decision. He also challenged 
Congress. He said: If we are going to end this Executive order, do 
something. Pass a law.
  Well, here we are, just about at the fifth month out of the 6-month 
period he gave us to get down to work, and nothing has happened. Some 
of us have been working on this issue, trying to address it on a 
bipartisan basis in the hope that this Republican-controlled Congress 
would join with enough Democrats to solve the problem that the 
President presented.
  I have worked with five of my colleagues--three Democrats and three 
Republicans--to craft a bill that we believe addresses the issue in a 
fair way. Compromise was included in that bill--some that I didn't like 
at all, but that is the nature of a compromise and bipartisanship.
  We presented this bill to our colleagues, and we also attended a 
meeting on January 9 with President Trump in which he addressed this 
issue. Here it was, 4 months after he issued the challenge to Congress, 
and he basically told us: It is time to get this done. He said to us--
and this was televised, so you can check my remarks if there is any 
question about what I am saying. He said to us, basically: Send me a 
bill, and I will sign it. I will take the political heat on this issue.
  Then the Republican leader on the House side, Kevin McCarthy said 
that it ought to include the following four elements: first, DACA and 
the Dreamers; second, border security; third, family reunification 
issues; and finally, the visa lottery system, the diversity system that 
we had established years ago.
  That is when I sat down and said to my fellow Senators--Democrats and 
Republicans, our little gang: We have to get this done. The President 
has challenged us, and he said that he is prepared to move forward if 
we can come up with a response. So we did. We came to an agreement 
among ourselves--the six Senators who had been meeting.
  We presented it to the President through Senator Lindsey Graham of 
South Carolina, a Republican, on January 11. He rejected it.
  So as of today, we really don't have a bill before us, and we are 
starting anew with a conversation about what to do to meet the 
President's challenge but equally, if not more importantly, to say to 
the 780,000 young people and those who were eligible to apply: This is 
what your future will be.
  We have had our ups and downs, and it was a rocky weekend just a few 
days ago relative to funding the government and whether we were going 
to take up this issue. I thought it ended on a positive note when 
Senator McConnell came to the floor and made an express promise to this 
Chamber--to Members on both sides of the aisle. I am going to try to 
characterize it, and I think this is accurate. Check the Record, if you 
don't think I say it quite right. But he said: If we have not reached 
an agreement on this issue by February 8, at that point, we will open a 
process on the floor of the Senate with what he characterized as a 
level playing field and an open amendment process. That, to me, is an 
opportunity, but I hope we can avoid that opportunity and reach an 
agreement, as he asked us to, by February 8. We have 14 days left. I 
would like to involve the House in this conversation so that we might 
reach a common agreement, but unfortunately, they are on recess this 
week. Those of us who were sitting and talking about it don't have a 
chance to get together with them. However, I am heartened by the fact 
that a number of my colleagues on the Republican side of the aisle are 
going to join a number on the Democratic side of the aisle this 
afternoon and start what we hope will be a productive process to reach 
a bipartisan agreement and do it in a timely way, as suggested and 
challenged by Senator McConnell. To achieve this goal, I think we 
understand we are going to have to be mindful of one another and 
mindful of the realities we face. There are a lot of issues relative to 
immigration. The list is pretty lengthy. There are important issues 
that should be considered.

[[Page S479]]

  It is unrealistic to think we are going to propose or even agree on a 
bipartisan and comprehensive immigration bill in 14 days. What we can 
do is address the President's challenge dealing with DACA and those 
DACA-eligible, so-called Dreamers. What we can do is address border 
security in a realistic and honest way.
  I took a look this morning at some of the publications of the 
Department of Homeland Security to try to get an understanding of what 
our challenge is when it comes to the undocumented of the United 
States. Where do they come from? How do they come to this country and 
how do they stay in this country if they don't have legal authority to 
do so?
  For example, the Department of Homeland Security tells us that each 
year 50 million--50 million--visitors come to the United States from 
visa waiver countries. Those who are visiting from those countries have 
not gone through an application process to visit the United States. 
They carry a passport from a country we have an understanding or 
agreement with that they can travel back and forth. Think about the 
European countries, for example, where we can travel extensively back 
and forth between there and the United States.
  Out of those 50 million, about 1.5 percent end up staying longer than 
they are supposed to. We end up with hundreds and thousands of 
undocumented people here by visa overstays. Forty percent of all those 
who are in this country undocumented came here by visa overstays. There 
is no wall you can build on the border of Mexico and Canada that is 
going to solve that problem. This is a problem that really relies on 
technology, which we should be investing in and which we can invest in 
on a bipartisan basis.
  So if your true goal is the reduction of the undocumented in America 
and trying to make sure there is legal status for as many as possible 
and you are looking at the incremental growth each year, you wouldn't 
look to the border first. You would look to the visa overstays first. 
Those are the ones who are slipping through the system, who should be 
policed and monitored with new technology.
  We have talked about it for decades. It is time to do something about 
it but also to concede, as I said, that no wall is going to stop that 
problem--no wall is going to solve that problem.
  When I take a look at the asylum issue, which I wouldn't say I am 
amused, but I would say I am interested--it is one that is always 
raised by the Department of Homeland Security; those who present 
themselves in the United States at the border or otherwise and suggest 
they have a credible fear in returning to their home country. It is 
interesting to look at the statistics because we find out that even 
though there may be this notion that they are primarily from Mexico, 
they are not. They are primarily from countries in the Northern 
Triangle of Central America. There is also a large contingent each year 
from China.
  So if we are talking about the asylum issue and not addressing all of 
the countries who are the major suppliers of those seeking asylum in 
the United States, then we are not talking about it in honest terms or 
in its entirety as we should.
  I might mention that China, along with 22 other countries, does not 
even have an agreement with the United States in terms of deportation, 
according to the report from the Department of Homeland Security. There 
is a lot we can do there to make sure China and those countries comply 
with the United States when we say we are deporting someone from your 
country that we find to be a danger to us, and rather than incarcerate 
them here, you get to have them back. They are yours. They shouldn't be 
here in the first place. When we talk about dealing with the issues of 
the undocumented, the issues of security in this country, many of these 
are not going to be solved with a wall. They are going to be solved if 
we deal with technology and look in honest terms and count real numbers 
about those coming from different parts of the world.
  I also want to address this issue about unaccompanied children coming 
to our border. I understand that challenge. The numbers have risen 
dramatically in prior years, and we have to take it seriously.
  I followed some of those children from the border to a protective 
gathering they have in Chicago in a place called Heartland Alliance, 
and I went in to meet them. I was shocked when I went into the 
cafeteria to see that some of these children were as young as 6 years 
of age, 6 years old presenting themselves at a border of the United 
States. What circumstances could have led to that? It is possible it 
was a smuggler who either threatened or exploited the family and ended 
up with a child, pushed them across the border into the arms of one of 
our Border Patrol agents. That is possible. That is something we should 
do everything we can to stop. That is an exploitation of that child. 
That child is likely to be abused in the process of this immigration, 
and it is something we ought to do everything we can to discourage, but 
to simply turn away children at the border is a dangerous thing. What 
are we going to do with that 6-year-old from Honduras or El Salvador or 
Guatemala at the border when they establish, through a written note or 
whatever, that there is a credible fear for them returning to their 
country? Do we ignore it? Do we turn them back to their country 
regardless? We better be careful. Awful things can happen.
  What do we do with the 12-year-old or 13-year-old girl who is a 
victim of rape and sexual assault in one of those countries, who was 
sent to the United States and our border because her parents believed 
she was about to be raped again or killed? Do we turn her back or send 
her back and ignore the reality?
  I commend to my colleagues and others who follow this debate an 
article that was written in the New Yorker last week by Sarah Stillman. 
It was entitled ``When Deportation Is A Death Sentence.'' She followed 
the terrible story of a young woman who was undocumented, who was 
stopped, and who said over and over again: If you send me back to 
Mexico, that husband of mine is going to kill me. There have been 
protective orders issued. He is a dangerous man. She was sent back 
anyway, and she was killed.
  These are complex situations not easily answered with the common 
definition that anyone who presents themselves to the border with such 
credible fears is going to be turned away without any consideration 
about the merits of that claim. We have to be careful. Human lives hang 
in the balance. Our reputation as a caring and principled Nation hangs 
in the balance as well.
  We need to do the right thing. Stop the exploitation when it occurs 
but also be mindful and sensitive to the fact that many people who do 
present themselves seeking asylum are truly leaving desperate 
circumstances and trying to find a safe place for themselves and their 
families.
  So the conversation continues this afternoon, on a bipartisan basis, 
among the Senators in the U.S. Senate to meet the President's 
challenge, to accept that challenge, and to come up with a bipartisan 
measure.
  I don't know the position of the President of the United States now. 
I couldn't express it after the experience we had a couple of weeks 
ago. I don't know where he stands. He has never issued anything by way 
of a suggestive piece of legislation. We haven't heard from him.
  So we have to do our part. We have to meet our responsibility in the 
Senate, hope the House does the same, and at some point the White House 
would join us in solving this problem, which the President actually 
created on September 5 of last year.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                Disaster Relief and Funding Our Military

  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, on Monday, Democrats relented after 3 long 
days and allowed the government to reopen. They agreed to pass a 
continuing resolution to reopen the government until February 8.
  I am glad they finally decided to fund the Children's Health 
Insurance Program on which 9 million vulnerable children rely as well 
as fund our military and essential government entities

[[Page S480]]

that could not operate during the shutdown. Now we have to work on 
other items that have been stalled and held hostage too.
  The first is disaster aid, which has been held up for months. The 
House of Representatives passed an $81 billion disaster relief bill 
back in December, but so far that package has gone nowhere in the 
Senate. That is incredibly disappointing and exacerbates the hardships 
to the victims of Hurricane Irma and Hurricane Harvey, as well as the 
folks out West who suffered extreme wildfires, floods, and mudslides. 
They need to get access to that $81 billion of disaster relief funding 
the House passed last December, but that too has been held hostage in 
the U.S. Senate.
  It is especially disappointing in my home State of Texas. I just got 
off the phone talking with Governor Abbott, who is perplexed--the 
kindest word I can think of--as to why we would continue to delay 
disaster relief to the people who suffered as a result of Hurricane 
Harvey.
  I am sure Governor Scott in Florida feels the same way. I am sure 
Governor Brown out in California feels the same way. I am sure the 
Governors of Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands feel the same way. What 
is wrong with Congress? Why can't they take up and pass an $81 billion 
disaster relief supplemental that the House sent the Senate in 
December?
  Last August, Hurricane Harvey devastated 28,000 square miles on the 
Texas coast. It has been called the most extreme rain event in history, 
certainly in the history of the United States. Highways were flooded. 
Thousands of homes were gutted. Places like Port Arthur, Beaumont, and 
Houston have not returned to normal. Routines are disrupted, shops and 
businesses remain closed, and houses are being renovated or rebuilt. 
But because of the size and the scope of the devastation, it is hard to 
get building supplies and it is hard to get the workers to rebuild 
these damaged homes and businesses.

  In Rockport, where I visited over Thanksgiving, Harvey made landfall 
with 150-mile-per-hour winds and a 13-foot storm surge. As of the end 
of December, 284 families were reported to still lack permanent 
housing. Some people are even living in tents.
  Rockport Mayor C.J. Wax said that 70 percent of businesses in 
Rockport remain closed--70 percent. According to the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency, one-third of Rockport is so badly damaged that it 
will be impossible to rebuild. Think about that. Think if this hit your 
hometown. One-third of your hometown is so badly damaged by a natural 
disaster that it will not be rebuilt, and 70 percent of the businesses 
in your hometown are closed and haven't reopened. Think of how you 
would feel.
  Over in Nueces County, meanwhile, which includes Corpus Christi and 
Port Aransas, officials have been frustrated because they haven't 
received the temporary housing assistance they need. Although FEMA--the 
Federal Emergency Management Agency--continues to marshal the full 
extent of its resources to help some people, for various reasons, many 
people are still living in motels and, as I said, even tents. This is 
completely unacceptable in the United States of America, especially 
while the House of Representatives has acted to produce a disaster 
relief bill, but it has been held hostage here in the Senate. This 
isn't a Democratic issue or a Republican issue; this is something we 
should be clamoring to solve--and not only clamoring, we should be 
acting to vote on that disaster relief today.
  Stories like these are why we need to move additional funds for 
disaster relief without delay. It is not just Texas, as I said, it is 
Floridians, Puerto Ricans, and people who live in the Virgin Islands 
and the wildfire-ravaged parts of California as well. The Senate has 
been dragging its feet long enough, and the longer we wait, the more 
people forget.
  I remember when the President and Mrs. Trump, along with the 
President's entire Cabinet, came down to Texas after Hurricane Harvey. 
The Speaker of the House, the majority leader of the House, and leaders 
on both sides of the aisle came down to Texas and said: We want to 
help. And the House has. The House passed an $81 billion disaster 
relief bill. But this unrelated immigration issue shut down the 
government. This is another one of the hostages that need to be 
released.
  June 1 is the beginning of hurricane season, and it is imperative 
that flood mitigation and storm surge protection projects begin without 
further delay. With support from Harris County, the city of Houston and 
members of the engineering community have identified the necessary 
projects, but we can't get started until we pass a disaster relief 
supplemental similar to the one the House passed in December. I talked 
to Mayor Turner of Houston, TX, one of the largest cities in the United 
States. He is beside himself, knowing that the House has passed this 
appropriation but that the Senate doesn't seem anywhere near to taking 
it up. It is hard for me to explain to him why the Senate has not 
acted. The simple fact is, this disaster relief should not be held 
hostage any longer.
  Amidst the disaster, I do want to mention one piece of good news on 
the hurricane front. I am glad that FEMA has responded to Members of 
Congress who asked that they accept applications for relief from 
nonprofits, like houses of worship, that were affected by Hurricane 
Harvey.
  This is a picture of one of the synagogues I attended in the 
Meyerland community in Houston, TX, which shows some of the devastation 
the synagogue there experienced. The rabbi asked me: Would you please 
go back to Washington and see whether, on a nonsectarian basis, you can 
get FEMA to expand its relief efforts to respond to houses of worship, 
many of which use or volunteer their facilities for community meetings 
and the like. So it is good to know that churches, synagogues, and 
other houses of worship will be able to get that sort of relief.
  This is the United Orthodox Synagogue that I visited after Harvey, 
where, as I mentioned, I saw this firsthand and had that discussion 
with the rabbi.
  The other issue we have to address is budget caps. This is another 
issue which has been held hostage by this unrelated immigration issue 
known as DACA, which everybody has heard so much about now. In 
conversations regarding the budget caps--these are the spending levels 
for this current fiscal year.
  The fiscal year of the U.S. Government lasts from October 1 to 
September 30, and we are already well into the fiscal year. We are in 
January. So we have already been on continuing resolutions because the 
spending caps have not been agreed to, and we all know why by now--
because our Democratic colleagues refuse to agree to the spending caps, 
so we can get a spending bill that funds the military and the rest of 
government, until they get a solution for the DACA issue. This is 
another hostage that has been taken. I am very worried about its impact 
on our military because we already know that our military is in dire 
straits when it comes to readiness, and they can't operate on a 3-week 
continuing resolution, which is the one we are on now. Even if the 
spending caps were agreed to today, it would take the Appropriations 
Committee a matter of additional weeks to come up with a bill we could 
vote on.

  As a result of the shutdown, the Democratic leader--who said he voted 
against the 4-week continuing resolution because he didn't like 
continuing resolutions--has guaranteed us at least two more continuing 
resolutions even if the spending caps were agreed upon in the next few 
days. This is terrible for the Pentagon, the people we depend upon to 
defend us and keep our country safe. This is an impossible situation 
for them to manage and to be as effective and efficient as we want them 
to be.
  The Defense Department has been operating under continuing 
resolutions for more than 36 months since 2010--36 months since 2010. 
By way of comparison, in the previous 8 years, the military was funded 
that way for less than 9 months. The consequences are clear, and they 
are deadly. Many of the mishaps that have involved our naval vessels, 
such as the McCain and the Fitzgerald, are the result of sailors spread 
thin, budgets spread thin, not enough training, and not enough 
preparation for the challenges they face. So these mishaps occur, and 
people die.
  The Wall Street Journal reports that only 5 of 58 brigade combat 
teams in the Army are prepared to fight. Only 5 out of 58 are prepared 
to fight. Now, I

[[Page S481]]

don't think our adversaries should take any comfort from that because I 
know Americans well enough to know that if there were an imminent 
threat, we would rise to the occasion and make sure that all 58 of them 
were prepared to fight, but right now, 5 out of 58. The U.S. Air Force, 
which provides the airpower, is short 2,000 pilots.
  Our military dominance across the globe is never guaranteed, and we 
know there are many signs that our military dominance is eroding. When 
American power erodes, when we retreat, either for policy or fiscal 
reasons, there are other people more than happy to fill the void. When 
that happens, the world becomes a more dangerous place, miscalculations 
occur, and conflict breaks out.
  Defense Secretary Jim Mattis put the matter succinctly last year when 
he said: ``For all of the heartache caused by the loss of troops during 
[our recent] wars, no enemy in the field has done more to harm the 
combat readiness of our military than sequestration.'' He might have 
said ``Congress'' because Congress is responsible for sequestration. 
Unfortunately, General Mattis is right. Our soldiers, sailors, airmen, 
and marines who so bravely serve our country deserve all of the 
political and financial support we can muster.
  We need to quit fooling ourselves into believing that our security 
won't be negatively impacted by our current funding approach. We need 
to quit dawdling and raise the defense spending caps without further 
delay. It is dangerous not to do so, and lives have been lost as a 
result of the lack of readiness caused by underfunding our military.
  Yesterday when the Senate Democratic leader spoke, he said that 
common sense and bipartisanship won and the government reopened. As 
conversations addressing spending caps and disaster relief continue, we 
need to make sure that those two things continue to prevail--common 
sense and bipartisanship--particularly when it comes to funding our 
military and other critical government functions, and to make sure they 
are no longer held hostage to an unrelated immigration issue that we 
are working on as hard as we know how to do. We understand the clock is 
ticking, and both political parties are demonstrating their good faith 
in working to solve that problem. So let's let these other hostages go.


                 Benton, Kentucky, High School Shooting

  Finally, Mr. President, on a different note, I want to extend my 
condolences to the men and women affected by the school shooting 
yesterday at a high school in Benton, KY. Two 15-year-old students were 
killed and more than 18 more were injured.
  Sadly, my State is no stranger to these kinds of tragedies. There was 
a shooting in Italy, TX, outside of Dallas, on Monday. Of course, 
everybody remembers the shooting last fall at the First Baptist Church 
in Sutherland Springs, where 26 people were killed and 20 more were 
injured.
  Each time these events happen, I fear that we become more 
desensitized to these terrible tragedies, and when we are desensitized, 
we are paralyzed. But we must not be desensitized, and we must not be 
paralyzed. We must work together to do everything we can to meet this 
challenge. So it is important for us to work together to find common 
ground that will improve public safety by targeting criminals who 
perpetrate acts of mass violence--people who have been convicted of 
domestic violence, felons, people who have been adjudicated mentally 
ill.
  All of them are disqualified from purchasing firearms. When they lie 
to the federally licensed firearm dealer who runs the background check, 
unless those items are reported to the FBI and recorded on that 
background check, they can get away with a lie, as the shooter in 
Sutherland Springs did when he had at least three disqualifying events 
in his life. He had been in a mental institution; he had been convicted 
of domestic violence--fractured the skull of his stepson in the process 
and assaulted his wife; and he was a convicted felon. There is no way 
in the world he should have gotten access to a firearm--except he lied 
about it. Because the Air Force refused to do its duty and upload those 
convictions into the background check system, he got away with it.
  One way we can begin to address at least some of these horrific 
incidents is through commonsense bipartisan solutions, such as the Fix 
NICS Act bill that I introduced. I am beyond gratified to know that 
many of our colleagues on the Democratic side and on the Republican 
side have come together to cosponsor this legislation.
  When it comes to guns in America, so much of your attitude is a 
product of where you were raised and how you were raised. In Texas, 
most Texans believe strongly in the Second Amendment to the U.S. 
Constitution. I do too. I believe in the right of law-abiding citizens 
to keep and bear firearms, but I also believe the background check 
system needs to be fixed. Commonsense, bipartisan solutions like the 
Fix NICS Act are critical, and we need to act without further delay.
  I am gratified that the Democratic leader and the majority leader are 
among those who cosponsored this legislation, and I hope we will take 
it up as soon as possible. When these terrible tragedies occur--like 
this one in Kentucky or the one in Italy, TX, most recently--most 
people say: We need to do something. We do need to do something, but 
specifically, we need to fix the broken background check system and 
save lives in the process.
  I don't know how any of us can go home and look into the faces of 
families who have lost loved ones because people have lied and evaded 
the background check system because it doesn't work the way it should--
I don't know how we can go home and look these families and victims in 
the face and say we have done our duty. Until we pass this legislation, 
we will not have done our duty.
  Mr. President, I yield the floor.


                  Recognition of the Democratic Leader

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Democratic leader is recognized.


                                  DACA

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, the government funding bill that passed 
on Monday left us--all of us--with 3 weeks to come to a resolution on 
legislation to protect the Dreamers. At the same time, we must work on 
legislation to improve American healthcare--I see the Senator from 
Washington State, who has been so vigilant in that area--and a budget 
agreement that supports our military and our middle class, delivering 
long-awaited funds--we Democrats will insist on these--for the opioid 
epidemic, veterans' healthcare, and pensions. We should feel an urgency 
about all of these issues and many more that we can make happen.
  Leader McConnell's promise to take up immigration on February 8 
should light a fire under everyone. The Republican leader and moderate 
Republicans bear a special responsibility to make sure these votes 
happen. All of those in the country who want to make sure the Dreamers 
get treated fairly should be focusing their attention on getting 60 
votes on a resolution that is fair to the Dreamers.
  The clock is ticking. If we don't solve this problem in 14 days, the 
Republicans are going to have to explain to Dreamers what their plan is 
to prevent them from being deported. When those horrible pictures of 
deportation occur--God forbid that they do, but if they do, it will 
clearly be on the delay, the obfuscation, and the lack of humanity that 
too many of our Republican colleagues are showing in this regard.
  Every Democrat--all 49 of us--supports DACA. Many of my Republican 
colleagues do as well. We certainly can find a bill that gets 60 votes 
in the Senate, and that is where our focus is. I had a very good 
meeting with the Hispanic groups yesterday. Some of us had 
disagreements about what happened a few days before, but it was an 
amiable and fine meeting, and we all agreed that we were going to focus 
on getting the 60 votes. I hope people throughout the country of both 
parties, of all political persuasions--business, labor--will join us 
like a laser in appealing to and imploring more Republican Senators to 
join us so that we get 60 votes on a fair DACA bill.
  We cannot let those who are anti-immigrant, who call giving the 
Dreamers hope ``amnesty,'' block us because then we will fail, and it 
will be on the other side of the aisle that made that happen.
  Over the weekend--and I am very glad about this--a bipartisan group 
of moderate Senators from both parties came together in a very 
inspiring way. Their efforts led to the agreement between the majority 
leader and me that an immigration bill will receive fair

[[Page S482]]

consideration in a few weeks. That is the first time we have ever heard 
that guarantee.
  The same energy and spirit that the bipartisan group put into forging 
a compromise this weekend ought to be committed to finding a bill on 
DACA that will pass this body with 60 votes.
  I support the bipartisan group. In fact, as some of our Members on 
the Democratic side had plans for it, I encourage them to join it and 
form it. I have had very good conversations with both leaders--Senator 
Manchin, a Democrat; Senator Collins, a Republican--and what they are 
doing is very good for the body. Speaking as Democratic leader, I 
encourage these kinds of groups to come forward.
  I remember the old Senate. I remember that individual Senators were 
involved in negotiating very important and very difficult issues. It 
made the Senate a better place, it made the Members feel more 
fulfilled, and it made our ability to get things done much, much more 
likely.
  Our task is different from the task last week. The Senate must find 
consensus. For that reason, we need to start from a new place. My 
negotiations with the President shouldn't dictate talks here on the 
Hill. That was then; this is now. It was a hope that last Friday the 
President would have reached out and supported something, that he 
wanted to get something that we wanted and he proclaimed to want too. 
It didn't happen. Now the group has to start in a new way, with no 
preconceptions, and come together and find a bill that can garner 60 
votes. That is a job for these Senators who came together so well in 
the last few days.
  Protecting the Dreamers is our moral obligation. The Senate is now in 
the spotlight. The eyes of the American people, who overwhelmingly 
sympathize with the Dreamers--90 percent, a majority of Republicans--
believe in these Dreamers. They don't go for these calls of amnesty. 
These people have worked hard. They have been trying so hard to be 
Americans. They came across the border when they were little, and now 
they are in our Armed Forces, they are in our factories, they are in 
our schools, and they are in our offices. To say that allowing them to 
become Americans is amnesty is nasty--nasty.
  Protecting the Dreamers is our moral obligation. The Senate is in the 
spotlight. The eyes of the American people, who sympathize with the 
Dreamers--the vast majority of Republicans, as well as Democrats, 
sympathize with Dreamers, and all of their eyes are on us. We need to 
get the job done.


                          Republican Tax Bill

  Mr. President, finally, a word on the Republican tax bill. 
Republicans promised that the massive corporate tax cut they passed 
would unleash unprecedented economic growth, raise wages, and boost 
jobs. We already have evidence that big corporations are not turning 
their new tax cut into jobs for the middle class.
  There was a lot of hoopla when AT&T said they would give bonuses. Do 
you know what they did at the same time? They announced plans to fire 
more than 1,000 workers, starting early this year, despite the tax cut. 
Macy's announced that it would be cutting 5,000 jobs, despite the tax 
bill. Kimberly-Clark plans to cut up to 5,500 jobs and close or sell 
about 10 plants, saying the savings from the tax bill gave them 
flexibility to make these reductions. Is President Trump going to claim 
credit for that one? Carrier--a company the President promised to 
save--continues to bleed jobs. They are a metaphor. A lot of nice 
announcements, a lot of blitz and glitz, but actually the condition of 
the American worker is getting no better and many times, worse.
  Meanwhile, what are most companies doing--so many of them--with these 
big tax breaks, these massive tax breaks they got? They are announcing 
stock buybacks. That benefits the CEO. It raises their stock and 
doesn't help anybody else. Mastercard, $4 billion; Bank of America, $5 
billion; Pfizer, $10 billion; Wells Fargo, $22 billion; and many, many 
more. One hundred billion dollars has been announced in stock buybacks 
since the Senate passed its tax bill.
  When the American people learn that some of them are not getting 
anything, that some of them are getting raises and the rest are getting 
crumbs and big corporations and wealthy individuals are getting nice, 
fat pieces of pie, they are going to be outraged. They are already.
  My friend the majority leader will not come to the floor and brag 
about the stock buybacks. He will, however, announce when a company 
gives a bonus to its workers. Let's hear both sides and let the 
American people judge. The bonuses are a good thing, but the truth is, 
these one-time bonuses are a drop in the bucket compared to what 
corporations could be doing for their workers.
  By the way, let me announce a few other things these corporations did 
after they got the tax breaks. When Bank of America announced $5 
billion in stock buybacks, it also announced that it started charging 
low-income customers for free checking. When Pfizer announced its $10 
billion buyback, it said it would no longer research for Alzheimer's or 
Parkinson's, laying off 300 people. Wells Fargo announced $22 billion 
in stock buybacks, helping its wealthy shareholders at the same time it 
is closing 800 branches.
  Here is a paragraph from yesterday's New York Times.

       Bank of America's bonuses will cost the bank $145 million 
     in 2018, or about 5 percent of the nearly $2.7 billion in 
     savings it is expected to reap in 2018 from a lower, 21 
     percent corporate tax rate. Apple's bonuses will cost $300 
     million, a fraction of the $40 billion, at least, that the 
     tech giant is saving from a single provision in the law, 
     which allows it to return earnings held overseas at less than 
     half the rate it would have paid under the old system. And 
     two days before Walmart snagged glowing headlines for handing 
     out $400 million in bonuses and lifting its minimum wage at a 
     cost of $300 million, the nation's largest retailer by sales 
     unveiled a plan to buy back company-issued debt. . . . $4 
     billion.

  Minimum wage, they pay out $300 million; stock buyback, $4 billion.
  I am glad these workers are getting bonuses. They deserve them. But 
it seems that recently, these bonuses are token efforts to give 
corporate executives something to point to while they reap huge 
benefits for themselves and their shareholders.
  A CNBC survey found that ``cuts in corporate taxes haven't yet had a 
meaningful impact on American companies' plans to boost investment or 
raise workers' pay.'' That is CNBC.
  Yes, we could have imagined tax reform that was deficit neutral, that 
closed loopholes while lowering rates, that lowered corporate taxes but 
actually stipulated that the money be put into wage increases and new 
jobs instead of what many companies are doing now--one-time bonuses and 
massive stock repurchasing programs. Many middle-class families have 
waited so long for better wages and more jobs. A tax bill properly 
constructed could have helped deliver that to them. Instead, 
Republicans squandered their once-in-a-generation opportunity on an 
extraordinary tax break for big corporations and the already wealthy, 
and we are already seeing the consequences.

  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Sullivan). The Senator from Washington.
  Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, almost a year ago, as Republicans were 
jamming through the confirmation of Tom Price as Secretary of Health 
and Human Services, I rose to object to his nomination. I voiced my 
very deep concerns about whether Secretary Price would be committed to 
protecting healthcare for our families, committed to putting evidence 
and sound policy over partisanship and ideology, and whether he would 
be committed to addressing the many ethical questions about his 
investments Republicans allowed to go unanswered. Well, he was not.
  Today, Secretary Price is infamous for two signature accomplishments: 
first of all, undermining healthcare access for millions of people; 
and, second, resigning in scandal and disgrace.
  In the wake of Secretary Price's resignation, President Trump had 
another opportunity to get this right. I believe families in Washington 
State deserve a Health and Human Services Secretary who will finally 
put patients ahead of politics.
  Unfortunately, after meeting with Alex Azar, hearing his testimony, 
and carefully reviewing his record and his qualifications, I do not 
believe Mr. Azar is an acceptable choice to lead the Department, and I 
will be voting against his confirmation.

[[Page S483]]

  From President Trump's first day in office, he has been focused on 
undermining healthcare coverage by putting up barriers to obtaining 
care, shortening our enrollment period, expanding loopholes for 
corporations, and making every effort to throw the entire system into 
chaos. After a year of President Trump's healthcare sabotage, there 
were over 3 million more people uninsured in our country. We need a 
voice to stand up and defend the healthcare our families rely on.
  I am alarmed by Mr. Azar's statements, including cheerleading 
healthcare repeal efforts, predicting that the Affordable Care Act was 
``circling the drain,'' even though enrollment stayed strong across the 
country this year, and detailing specific steps to, as he said, hasten 
the demise of patients' and families' healthcare.
  While President Trump continues to call the opioid crisis a public 
health emergency, he has yet to treat it like one. So far, his 
administration has proposed cutting the budget for the Office of 
National Drug Control Policy by 95 percent. It is focused on gutting 
Medicaid, which provides critically needed substance use disorder 
treatment, and they have failed to provide any new funding or resources 
to support the communities that are fighting this crisis.
  Local leaders in my home State of Washington and across the country 
need a voice at the Department of Health and Human Services committed 
to bringing more resources, not fewer, to address the opioid epidemic. 
I am alarmed by Mr. Azar's refusal to support more funding for 
communities that are hard hit by the opioid epidemic.
  President Trump's Department has also shown a concerning pattern of 
undermining evidence-based policies in favor of ideology. When it comes 
to undermining evidence, political appointees at Health and Human 
Services have asked their career staff not to use the terms ``evidence-
based'' and ``science-based'' because they view them as ``essentially 
meaningless.''
  When it comes to favoring ideology, not only has the Department taken 
steps to restrict access to care for women and transgender patients, 
leaders have also sought to effectively ban words like ``transgender'' 
and ``diversity'' and ``vulnerable'' among their Department employees--
ban the words, and they have not just cut important words, they have 
gutted valuable, evidence-based programs like the Teen Pregnancy 
Prevention Program.
  This program has provided useful insight on what works to address 
high teen pregnancy rates. It has been recognized by the bipartisan 
Commission on Evidence-Based Policymaking for its rigorous approach to 
evaluation. Yet President Trump's administration chose to unilaterally 
shorten that program's grants.
  We need a voice there who will reject such damaging ideology 
decisions and to champion evidence and science and sound policymaking. 
I do not believe Mr. Azar is that champion--quite the opposite, in 
fact.
  I am alarmed Mr. Azar believes a woman's employer should be able to 
decide, based on ideology, whether or not her birth control should be 
covered. I am alarmed by his extreme and out-of-touch views on Roe v. 
Wade, as shown by his support for legislation and political candidates 
who would undermine the constitutional rights enshrined in this 
important decision, and his use of ideological rhetoric in discussing 
the rights guaranteed to women by that landmark case.
  Unfortunately, Mr. Azar is the latest in a string of ideologically 
driven healthcare appointees from President Trump. We cannot tolerate 
one more nominee overseeing a woman's healthcare programs who is more 
focused on undermining them than on advancing them.
  Finally, I am alarmed by his track record at the pharmaceutical 
company Eli Lilly. As a nominee, Mr. Azar has said we need to fight to 
lower drug prices, but during his time as president of Lilly, that 
company tripled the price of insulin, and Mr. Azar personally approved 
significant price increases for dozens of the company's drugs.
  As a nominee, Mr. Azar may try to assure us that he will fight for 
patients and protect the health of our communities, but after looking 
at his record, after reading his past statements, and after discussing 
these issues with him, I am alarmed he might not stand up for women and 
families, I am alarmed he might not stand up to the pharmaceutical 
industry, and I am alarmed he might not stand up to President Trump's 
agenda, driven by sabotage and ideology.
  After months of Republicans putting politics ahead of funding 
healthcare for children, and as Republicans continue to put politics 
ahead of funding for community health centers like those in rural 
Washington State and those across the country that help to serve 
underserved communities, and as they continue to ignore other primary 
care programs that bring medical professionals to populations in need 
like teaching health centers in Spokane, we have to have strong 
leadership at the Department of Health and Human Services that will 
demand that we put public health first, not partisanship.
  I urge my colleagues today to vote against this nomination.
  I thank the Chair.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from New Jersey.
  Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I come to the floor to voice my concerns 
about the nomination of Alex Azar to lead the U.S. Department of Health 
and Human Services.
  The American people deserve a Secretary of Health and Human Services 
who actually believes in the agency's work and mission, which is to 
help America's families, children, and seniors lead healthier and more 
productive lives.
  Nothing in Mr. Azar's record gives me any reason to believe he will 
do anything other than advance the Trump administration's mission to 
take healthcare coverage away from millions of Americans and leave 
everyone else with higher costs.
  Instead of working to help more families get the care they need, I 
fear he will devote most of his time to imposing a harmful, rightwing 
ideology on patients, on women, and on families.
  Mr. Azar will continue the Trump administration's reckless assault on 
the reproductive rights of women; he will support the far right's 
relentless war on science- and evidence-based health policy; and he 
will put the needs of powerful special interests ahead of patients and 
families.
  It is hard to believe the Trump administration has only been in 
office a year because already it has broken so many of the promises the 
American people were fed on the campaign trail. During his campaign, 
President Trump promised he would replace the Affordable Care Act with 
something truly great, something way better, but under President 
Trump's watch, things have only gotten worse. Premiums are up, 
deductibles are up, and for the first time since 2012, the number of 
Americans with healthcare coverage has gone down.
  Now, this is no accident. It is the result of the Trump 
administration's relentless assault on the Affordable Care Act. That is 
right. Thanks to this administration's deliberate efforts to sow chaos 
in our health insurance markets, and subsidies that reduce sky-high 
deductibles, and give consumers less time to shop for insurance, 3.5 
million fewer Americans have coverage compared to 1 year ago. In my 
State, the number of New Jerseyans enrolled in the marketplace dropped 
by 5 percent.
  Mr. Azar says the Affordable Care Act is ``circling [down] the 
drain,'' when the reality is, Republicans have done their best to drown 
it. The Trump administration has no plan to help the growing number of 
Americans without coverage, and Mr. Azar has offered no solutions to 
protect their health and financial security. In fact, he believes the 
paltry tax credits Republicans propose in their Affordable Care Act 
alternative to buy insurance are too generous--too generous. If I said 
that to any one of my constituents, they would laugh in my face.
  Nothing in Mr. Azar's record gives me any confidence that he will 
change course. That is because, like former Secretary Tom Price, Mr. 
Azar lives in an alternative universe, where health insurers will 
suddenly put the well-being of patients ahead of their stock prices; 
that if we just scrap the Affordable Care Act, the free market will 
magically begin covering the sick, caring for families, and protecting 
our seniors.

[[Page S484]]

  Well, we know that is patently false. We already tried letting health 
insurance companies run the show, and it didn't work because, in 
America, healthcare doesn't ever go on sale. If it did, people would be 
banging down doors like Best Buy on black Friday to schedule their 
heart surgeries and cancer treatments.
  Mr. Azar seems to forget that we need commonsense protections to 
ensure Americans with preexisting conditions have access to coverage; 
that before the Affordable Care Act, health insurance companies 
routinely denied coverage for cancer survivors and people with chronic 
challenges like MS; that children with preexisting conditions like 
asthma or heart murmurs were blacklisted by insurers for life; that 
thousands of people were bankrupted by medical bills each and every 
year, and women were charged higher premiums for the same exact 
insurance policies as men.
  Mr. Azar seems to forget that before programs like Medicare and 
Medicaid, seniors who worked hard their entire lives languished without 
care and lived in abject poverty. Do we really want to see seniors 
backsliding into poverty in 2018?
  Now, I know Mr. Azar is a very wealthy man--it almost seems to be a 
prerequisite in order to serve in the Trump Cabinet--but I encourage 
him to try to imagine what it is like to work a low-wage job that 
doesn't provide healthcare benefits and what it is like for parents in 
New Jersey to go to work every day knowing they are one illness or 
injury away from ruining their family's financial future.
  These men and women are among the 11 million Americans who depend on 
the Affordable Care Act's Medicaid expansion, including well over half 
a million in New Jersey alone. Yet Mr. Azar believes he has a mandate 
to turn programs like Medicare into vouchers that shortchange seniors. 
He supports turning Medicaid into a block program, which is a way of 
ultimately dramatically cutting the program and a fancy way of saying 
States should be allowed to block millions of people from getting the 
care they need--no matter how much money they make, what ZIP Code they 
come from, or what healthcare challenges they face.
  The American people deserve a Secretary of Health and Human Services 
who is prepared not only to defend these stalwart programs but is 
committed to building on their success. After a year of higher costs, 
less coverage, and empty promises by the Trump administration, the 
American people want Congress to turn the page. We have the chance to 
do that by rejecting Mr. Azar's nomination.
  It is time we demanded the administration nominate a leader who is 
truly devoted to helping all Americans get the care they need no matter 
how much money they make, what Zip Codes they come from, or what 
healthcare challenges they face.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from New Hampshire.
  Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, I join my colleagues on the floor to 
speak in opposition to the nomination of Alex Azar to head the 
Department of Health and Human Services.
  I believe Mr. Azar is, first and foremost, a product of the 
pharmaceutical industry, with a long, consistent track record of 
sharply increasing drug prices during his tenure at Lilly USA.
  Furthermore, his nomination makes clear that President Trump did not 
mean it when he said repeatedly during the campaign that pharmaceutical 
companies are ``getting away with murder'' and that he as President 
would dramatically reduce drug prices for seniors and all Americans. 
Mr. Azar's nomination is yet one more example of the Trump 
administration putting special interests above the public interest and 
public safety.
  Mr. Azar has long opposed any Federal intervention in prescription 
drug pricing, things like allowing Medicare to negotiate for drug 
prices. Of course, his former company has profited handsomely from the 
government's hands-off approach. When Mr. Azar became the president of 
Lilly USA, he also became the chair of its pricing committee and had a 
major say in price increases for all domestically sold Lilly drugs from 
2012 to 2014. During that time, the list and net prices of Lilly's 
drugs that were sold in the United States increased by double-digit 
percentages each year.
  As cochair of the Senate's Diabetes Caucus, I am especially troubled 
that during Mr. Azar's time with the company, Lilly more than tripled 
the price of insulin--jacking up the price from $74 to $269. Much of 
that increase occurred during Mr. Azar's years as chair of the pricing 
committee. These price increases are not only exorbitant but have 
caused real hardship to many of the nearly 30 million Americans who 
live with diabetes. As Candidate Trump would have put it, Lilly, under 
Mr. Azar's leadership, was ``getting away with murder.''
  I am also concerned that Mr. Azar will continue and even ramp up the 
Trump administration's across-the-board campaign to sabotage our 
healthcare system. We are now 1 year into this administration's efforts 
to undermine the Affordable Care Act. Regrettably, it is working. The 
uninsured rate rose in 2017 by 1.3 percentage points. That was nearly 
3.2 million more people who were without health insurance.
  Already, the administration has eliminated those payments that allow 
insurance companies to keep down premiums and reduce copays and 
deductibles, and that has created further hardship on people who 
desperately need health insurance. Without reason or justification, the 
administration cut the open enrollment period by half. It slashed the 
budget for open enrollment ads on TV, radio, and the internet by 90 
percent, which shut down most efforts to inform consumers about their 
enrollment options.
  Despite these efforts, they were not successful in dramatically 
reducing the number of people who tried to enroll in the Affordable 
Care Act because enrollment for 2018 was 8.8 million people compared to 
9.2 million the year before. It shows how desperately people want to 
have health insurance. Of course, we know that since that enrollment 
period, the Republican leaders in Congress have used the tax bill to 
repeal the individual mandate. Meanwhile, in an interview, Mr. Azar 
spoke of his desire to ``hasten [the Affordable Care Act's] demise.'' 
Apparently, he doesn't appreciate that the Affordable Care Act and 
Medicaid expansion, in particular, have been absolutely critical tools 
in the fight against the opioid epidemic.

  I urge Mr. Azar and President Trump to read the front page story in 
Sunday's New York Times. The story is about the devastating 
consequences of the opioid epidemic in my State of New Hampshire. The 
article is titled ``How a `Perfect Storm' in New Hampshire Has Fueled 
an Opioid Crisis.'' It was accompanied by an even more compelling 
article, titled ``1 Son, 4 Overdoses, 6 Hours,'' which profiles the 
life of Patrick Griffin of Pembroke, NH. In shocking detail, the 
article documents how Mr. Griffin, who has struggled for years with a 
substance misuse disorder, overdosed four times within a 6-hour period. 
Twice within those 6 hours, emergency medical responders came to his 
house and revived him with Narcan, the antidote that reverses opioid 
overdoses.
  In reading that article, some people will ask: Why can't he just 
control his substance use disorder? They don't understand this is a 
disease, that it changes people's brain makeups--the chemistry of an 
individual's brain. Just like heart disease or diabetes or any other 
chronic illness, there is a physiology that is involved with that that 
affects a person's ability to get better.
  One of the things that saves people like Patrick when one is 
overdosing is the drug Narcan, or naloxone, which is the official name. 
It has been used so much in New Hampshire that most people refer to it 
as Narcan. We have seen that the pharmaceutical industry has 
dramatically increased the price of Narcan as this epidemic has spread.
  The price of the drug that is needed by so many to save their lives 
has increased dramatically. A two-dose package of Narcan, manufactured 
by Evzio, cost $690 in 2014. It is $4,500 today. Generic doses of 
Narcan have increased between 95 and 129 percent since 2012. Bear in 
mind, it often takes multiple doses to revive people who have 
overdosed, so this has an impact on our healthcare system. In New 
Hampshire, it has had an impact on families, on municipalities, on 
first responders--all of those people who are trying to save people who 
have overdosed.

[[Page S485]]

  As we all know, the opioid epidemic is a nationwide crisis, with some 
63,000 Americans having been killed by drug overdoses in 2016. New 
Hampshire has been especially hard hit. The demise of the Affordable 
Care Act, which Mr. Azar says he wants, would mean that thousands of 
Granite Staters would lose access to treatment, with there being 
devastating consequences. That is true not just in New Hampshire but in 
States across this country. I think it is unconscionable that a 
Secretary of Health and Human Services would take away one of our most 
valuable tools for combating substance use disorders and that he would 
actively oppose access to healthcare for millions of Americans.
  For me, between Mr. Azar's coziness with the pharmaceutical industry 
and his disdain for the Affordable Care Act, which is the law of the 
land and which Mr. Azar would be charged with administering as 
Secretary, I think he is the wrong person to serve in the critically 
important post of Secretary of Health and Human Services. I intend to 
vote against his confirmation, and I hope my colleagues will do the 
same.
  I thank the Presiding Officer.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The President pro tempore.
  (The remarks of Mr. Hatch and Mr. Alexander pertaining to the 
introduction of S. 2334 are printed in today's Record under 
``Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions.'')


                  Children's Health Insurance Program

  Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, earlier this week, the Senate voted to pass 
a continuing resolution to reopen the government. This came after weeks 
of acrimony and no shortage of hostility here on the Senate floor and 
elsewhere. While most of the recent debate has been focused on the 
future of immigration policy, another vitally important priority--and a 
bipartisan priority, no less--was also addressed this week.
  I am talking, of course, about the 6-year extension of the Children's 
Health Insurance Program, which was included in the funding bill. It is 
a shame, really, that this bipartisan accomplishment has, in some 
respects, been overlooked while more attention has been given to 
partisan squabbling over other divisive issues.
  Since its inception, CHIP has been a bipartisan program. In 1997, 
Senator Kennedy and I came together to create CHIP in order to provide 
health insurance to vulnerable children. It was a Republican-controlled 
Congress working with a Democratic President that brought this program 
into existence.
  The year before, that same Republican Congress and Democratic 
President worked together to produce another landmark welfare reform 
bill that sought to replace a culture of dependency with an emphasis on 
work. S-CHIP became a necessity for those families making the 
transition.
  Prior to the introduction of the original CHIP bill, I came across a 
number of families with parents who worked but still could not afford 
private coverage for their children. Yet they made too much to qualify 
for Medicaid. Senator Kennedy and I designed our bill to fill this gap 
and meet those needs.
  Today, the CHIP program provides health insurance for about 9 million 
needy children every year. While the program isn't perfectly designed--
though few programs are--it is widely considered to be one of the most 
efficient and cost-effective healthcare programs. For that reason, 
Members from both parties have been supportive of the program since the 
day it was signed into law.
  Last year, with an extension deadline approaching, Senator Wyden, the 
ranking member of the Finance Committee, and I went to work on drafting 
another bipartisan CHIP bill, one that would make needed improvements 
to the program and extend it for an additional 5 years. We were 
successful. We introduced our bill in September and, shortly 
thereafter, the Finance Committee marked it up and reported it by voice 
vote.
  We have been working to pass our bill since last September, and, 
thankfully, that time came earlier this week. When we voted to pass the 
CR, we also voted to successfully extend CHIP for 6 years. That is the 
longest CHIP extension in the history of this program.
  Other than that extra year of funding, the bill we passed was 
identical to the one Senator Wyden and I introduced last year. I know 
we have colleagues already talking about adding additional years, and I 
know a number of stakeholders would like to see that as well. I am 
definitely open to having a conversation with my colleagues on how we 
might move forward to support an additional 4 years of funding for 
CHIP.
  In my view, if we can work together to pass a bill adding 4 years to 
the 6 already in place, that would be simply fantastic, but for this 
moment, let us not overlook the success we have achieved this week. A 
6-year CHIP extension gives security and certainty to millions of 
American families and allows States to plan their budgets for several 
years into the future. That is a big deal. Let us keep that in mind as 
we look for ways to do more.
  I would like to thank Senator Wyden, my partner on the Finance 
Committee, for his efforts in developing this legislation. I would like 
to thank other members of the Senate Finance Committee who supported us 
all the way. Thank you to our distinguished majority leader and his 
team, as well as the leaders in the House who worked alongside us. I 
also thank the stakeholders across the country--the Governors, care 
providers, and of course the families who depend on CHIP for making 
their voices heard throughout this endeavor. I look forward to working 
with all of you going forward so we can make sure we do right by the 
children who benefit from CHIP.
  Now, Mr. President, I would like to turn to a related issue in the 
healthcare space. The Senate will soon vote on President Trump's 
nominee for Secretary of Health and Human Services. I can think of very 
few others--and I have only been here 42 years--but I can think of very 
few others as qualified to take the helm of this very large ship than 
Mr. Alex Azar.
  As Secretary of Health and Human Services, Mr. Azar would be 
responsible for trillions of dollars in spending, liabilities, and 
contracts that make up the backbone of our healthcare system.
  What is more, Health and Human Services is still in the process of 
off-ramping many of the poor decisions made throughout the 8 years of 
the Obama administration. Unfortunately, many of those policies, 
regulations, procedures, and practices remain in place, continuing to 
undermine the sustainability of programs like Medicare and Medicaid, 
and artificially propping up the so-called Affordable Care Act.
  The good news is, Mr. Azar brings with him nearly two decades of 
experience in the healthcare system, working in both the private and 
public sectors. Mr. Azar spent several years as a senior official at 
Health and Human Services, holding key positions overseeing Medicare 
Part D and Medicare Advantage. He also led Health and Human Service's 
responses to the anthrax victims shortly after 9/11, the SARS and 
monkeypox crises, Hurricane Katrina, and many others.
  Clearly, Mr. Azar has seen both the good and the bad at Health and 
Human Services and knows how to manage them. I don't think there is 
anyone here, even on the other side of the aisle, who would contest 
that. In fact, in the past, Mr. Azar has actually been confirmed twice. 
With experience both on the company side and the government side of 
healthcare, he is now only more experienced and knowledgeable.
  I think the broad exercise will serve him well, particularly at this 
critical time when the Health and Human Services Secretary will need to 
be intensely focused on the opioid epidemic and other major problems 
facing our country. No doubt all of these are reasons why we reported 
Mr. Azar out of the Finance Committee with a bipartisan vote. If we set 
aside the partisan and the preconceived notions some have about certain 
industries, Mr. Azar would likely get a near-unanimous vote.
  I hope at least some of our Democratic colleagues will vote to 
confirm him. I urge all of my colleagues to join me in doing so.
  I yield the floor.
  Ms. CANTWELL. Mr. President, today the Senate will vote on the 
nomination of Alex Azar, President Trump's nominee for Secretary of 
Health and Human Services. I join many of my colleagues in expressing 
concerns about this nominee.
  First, I believe Mr. Azar will accelerate the Trump administration 
and

[[Page S486]]

congressional Republicans' harmful agenda on Medicaid, which I view as 
nothing less than a war on Medicaid.
  Medicaid is a lifeline for millions of Americans and a smart 
healthcare and economic strategy for our country. Last year, I spent 
hours on the Senate floor presenting data and information to my 
colleagues showing why cutting and capping Medicaid is a very bad idea. 
I met with Medicaid patients, safety net hospitals, community health 
centers, and local elected officials in every corner of my State. They 
had a crystal-clear message for me: Cutting and capping Medicaid will 
be bad for patients, bad for the healthcare delivery system, bad for 
local economies, and bad for our State. They expressed a consensus view 
that capping Medicaid is not healthcare reform, nor is it innovation; 
it is simply a budget mechanism to throw people off of healthcare.
  Mr. Azar has stated that he favors a block grant or per-capita cap 
financing approach for Medicaid. He speaks highly of the current 
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, CMS, Administrator and 
their troubling regulatory agenda for Medicaid. Mr. Azar has been a 
cheerleader for the partisan legislation we debated last year that 
would permanently eviscerate Medicaid. These bills, depending on each 
iteration, would take Medicaid coverage from 14 million Americans, 
sunset the successful Medicaid expansion, and eliminate up to one-third 
of Federal Medicaid investment over the next two decades, according to 
the Congressional Budget Office. I have every reason to believe that 
Mr. Azar would continue and accelerate the Trump administration's war 
on Medicaid.
  Second, I have no evidence to suggest that Mr. Azar will stop the 
Trump administration's track record of throwing needless chaos into the 
individual health insurance markets.
  There is bipartisan agreement that we need to make health insurance 
more affordable, particularly in the individual market, where about 7 
percent of Americans buy coverage; yet the Trump administration has 
rejected bipartisan consensus and moved us backwards. This 
administration has proposed to unleash ``junk insurance'' under the 
guise of association health plans, cancelled cost-sharing reduction 
payments, created roadblocks to insurance enrollment, and pursued 
backdoor schemes to rescind protections for people with preexisting 
conditions. I have every indication that Mr. Azar will continue this 
trajectory of higher costs, less coverage, and more uncertainty.
  I believe we can and must tackle rising healthcare costs by 
innovating in the delivery of healthcare, instead of simply capping 
programs and kicking people off coverage. To that end, I hope that Mr. 
Azar will advance true delivery system change in the Medicare Program, 
as he says he wants to, and engage with Senators of both parties to 
work on good ideas to bring more value and efficiency to our healthcare 
system.
  For these reasons, I will oppose Mr. Azar's confirmation to be 
Secretary of Health and Human Services.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs. Ernst). The clerk will call the roll.
  The bill clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


          Judiciary Committee Oversight and Investigative Work

  Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, I come to the floor today to talk 
about the Judiciary Committee, which I chair, about our important 
oversight work, the investigative work, and to kind of concentrate on 
the past year.
  There are a lot of issues that need more sunlight and more scrutiny. 
One of my key concerns is the loss of faith in the ability of the 
Justice Department and the FBI to do their jobs free of partisan 
political bias.
  The American people are rightfully skeptical because of how the 
Department and the FBI have handled the following subjects: on one 
hand, Hillary Clinton, and on the second hand, Donald Trump and his 
associates. Hiding from tough questions about these controversial cases 
is no way to reassure the public. If the Department is afraid of 
independent oversight, that just reinforces people's suspicion and 
skepticism. The only real way to reassure people is to let the sunshine 
in and let the chips fall where they may. In each of these cases, the 
government should obviously find out what happened and hold people 
accountable if there was any wrongdoing, but it also has to play by the 
rules and be held accountable for its actions as well. We need to shine 
the light of day on all of it.
  As part of our investigation, we have requested documents and other 
information from the Department of Justice and the FBI. Much of that 
information is classified. The Department has provided very limited 
access to those classified materials. It has limited the Judiciary 
Committee's review to the chair, this Senator; the ranking member of 
the full committee, and that would be Senator Feinstein; and the 
Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism, and that would be Senator Graham 
and Senator Whitehouse. The government has also tried to severely limit 
the number of appropriately cleared staff who can review documents and 
even take notes.
  We have reviewed some information related to whether the FBI used a 
so-called Trump dossier and the extent of its relationship with its 
author, Christopher Steele. As we know now, Mr. Steele was hired by 
Fusion GPS to research Mr. Trump's alleged ties to Russia. His work was 
funded by the Democratic National Committee and the Clinton campaign. 
Now, remember, it took a subpoena and a court battle with the House 
Intelligence Committee to force that fact out into the open. Lawyers 
for the Democratic National Committee and the Clinton campaign 
officials denied it to the press for months. In other words, they lied. 
The founder of Fusion GPS denied that his firm was ``Democratically 
linked.'' That, too, was untrue.
  When the news finally broke, New York Times reporters actually 
complained that people who knew better had flat-out lied to them about 
who funded Mr. Steele's dossier. But back before the 2016 election, it 
is unclear who knew that Steele was gathering dirt on Trump for the 
Democratic National Committee and for the Clinton campaign. Many of his 
sources for claims about the Trump campaign are Russian Government 
officials. So Steele, who was working for Fusion GPS, who in turn was 
working for the Democratic National Committee and the Clinton campaign, 
was also working with the Russians. So who was actually colluding with 
Russians? It is becoming more clear.
  Mr. Steele shared his at least partially Russian-based allegations 
far and wide. He shared them with the FBI. He shared them with the 
media. According to public reports, he shared them with high-ranking 
officials in the Justice Department and the State Department.
  In the course of our review, Senator Graham of South Carolina and I 
came across some information that just does not add up. We saw Mr. 
Steele swearing one thing in a public libel suit against him in London, 
England, and then we saw contradictory things in documents that I am 
not going to talk about in an open setting here. I know everybody 
understands that. From everything we have learned so far, Senator 
Graham and I believe these discrepancies are significant. So we sent a 
referral of Christopher Steele to the Justice Department and the FBI 
for potential violations of 18 U.S.C. 1001.
  I guess people are going to say whatever they want to say about this 
whole matter no matter what the facts are, but it doesn't contribute 
anything meaningful to the public debate to ignore those facts or to 
speculate wrongly about Senator Graham's motivations, or mine.
  First, despite all the hubbub, this is not all that unusual. Anyone 
can ask for a criminal investigation. I have done it in the past when I 
have come across potential crimes in the course of my oversight work, 
and I have done so publicly. This situation is no different.
  Second, as the special counsel has reminded us all recently, lying to 
Federal officials is a crime. It doesn't matter who is doing the lying, 
politics should have nothing to do with it.
  I have said repeatedly that I support Mr. Mueller's work and I 
respect his role. I still do. Nothing has changed. I think it ought to 
be said again in case anyone missed it. The special counsel

[[Page S487]]

should be free to complete his work and to follow the facts wherever 
they lead, but that doesn't mean that I can ignore what looks like 
false statements. If an individual sees what might be evidence of a 
crime, he or she should report that to law enforcement so it can be 
fully investigated. That is exactly what Senator Graham and I did. That 
does not mean that we have made up our minds about what happened. It is 
possible that Mr. Steele told the truth and the other, contradictory 
statements that we saw were wrong. But, just as any court would do, we 
start by assuming that government documents are true until we see 
evidence to the contrary. If those documents are not true and there are 
serious discrepancies that are no fault of Mr. Steele's, then we have 
another problem--an arguably more serious problem.

  Of course, even aside from these inconsistencies, the public reports 
about the way the FBI may have used the dossier should give everyone in 
this Chamber pause. Director Comey testified in 2017 that the dossier 
was ``salacious and unverified.'' If it was unverified in 2017, then it 
had to be unverified in 2016 as well. So it was a collection of 
unverified opposition research funded by a political opponent in an 
election year. Would it be proper for the Obama administration--or, for 
that matter, any administration--to use something like that to 
authorize further investigation that intrudes on the privacy of people 
associated with its political opponents? That should bother civil 
libertarians of any political stripe.
  Now, I wish I could speak more openly about the basis of our referral 
and other concerns, but right now that information is largely 
classified. That information is controlled by the Justice Department. 
As I said, the Department has permitted only the chair and ranking 
member of the full Judiciary Committee, the chair and ranking member of 
the Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism of the Judiciary Committee, and 
a limited number of their cleared staff to see the underlying 
documents. I have been pushing for the Department to provide the same 
access to other Judiciary Committee members and their appropriately 
cleared staffs, but the Department refuses to provide that access or 
even to brief the other members on the underlying information.
  Fortunately, the Department has agreed that it has no business 
objecting to our members reviewing our own work, so I have encouraged 
our committee members and their appropriately cleared staff to do just 
that--review that work. Look at the memo that Senator Graham and I sent 
to the Deputy Attorney General and the FBI Director. Members can then 
make up their own minds about what Senator Graham and I have concluded.
  I have also encouraged them to review the committee's transcripts and 
other unclassified materials that have been available to them and their 
staffs for a long period of time now--many months.
  Finally, I have encouraged them to let me know if they believe that 
any of that information should be made public. I believe in 
transparency. We may agree that certain information should be released 
at the appropriate time, with care to preserve classified information 
and the integrity of any investigation. I have already been pushing the 
Department to review the classified referral memorandum to confirm the 
memo's classification markings so that we can release the unclassified 
portions as soon as possible. But now the Department has deferred to 
the FBI, and the FBI is falsely claiming that three of our unclassified 
paragraphs--each contains the same, single classified fact. Now, that 
really surprised me because these particular paragraphs are based on 
nongovernment sources and do not claim to repeat or confirm any 
information from any government document.
  Even if these portions of our referral did reference the allegedly 
classified fact at issue, it is hard to understand why that fact should 
be classified.
  First, the Deputy Attorney General has discussed the fact at issue 
with me more than once in an unsecure space and on an unsecure phone 
line. That ought to tell us something.
  Second, the FBI is not acting as if this information would harm 
national security if released. The FBI never notified the entities 
copied on the memo's transmittal--for example, including the inspector 
general and the Intelligence Committees--to ensure that fact was 
protected as classified. If the FBI really believed this fact was 
classified, then the FBI and the Department should take better care to 
act consistent with that belief.
  Unfortunately, I suspect something else is really going on. It sure 
looks like a bureaucratic game of hide the ball rather than a genuine 
concern about national security.
  I am pressing this issue with Director Wray, and I hope we can 
provide this information to the public as soon as possible. In fact, 
just this morning, I took a long period of time to handwrite a letter 
to Christopher Wray, the Director of the FBI, to let him know these 
very concerns. It has been scanned to him, and I hope people make sure 
he gets it because I am not sure he always gets my letters, handwritten 
or typed.
  I also believe that the Department should carefully review the entire 
memorandum and begin an orderly process to declassify as much of that 
information as possible.
  The Intelligence Committee in the House of Representatives recently 
voted to allow all House Members to review a short memo summarizing 
what it has learned. Senators are not allowed to see what the House 
Members know. However, House Members who have seen it have been calling 
for a vote to release that memo.
  Here in the Senate, the Senate Judiciary Committee has access to the 
same information that the House Intelligence Committee saw before 
drafting its summary memo. Our committee does not have the same 
authority to release classified information that the House committee 
has. We have to rely on the agency to review and potentially declassify 
our memo.
  Based on what I know, I agree that as much of this information should 
be made public as soon as possible through the appropriate process--and 
I don't just mean the summary memos. The government should release the 
underlying documents referenced in those memos after deleting any 
national security information that needs to be protected.
  But most of this story can be told, and the part that can be told 
should be told. The American people deserve the truth. Stale, recycled 
media spin from journalists and pundits who do not have all the facts 
is not enough. The country is filled with frenzy and speculation, but 
the people are very hungry for facts. However, I cannot release this 
information on my own, and neither should anyone else. Classified 
information is controlled by the executive branch. We should work 
together to achieve the greater transparency while still protecting 
legitimately sensitive national security information.
  Madam President, I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. NELSON. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Tillis). Without objection, it is so 
ordered.
  Mr. NELSON. Mr. President, I wish to talk about Alex Azar's 
nomination as Secretary of Health and Human Services. I wish to explain 
how I am going to vote no by virtue of what I asked him in his hearing 
in front of the Finance Committee.
  Needless to say, programs such as Medicaid, Medicare, the Federal 
marketplace for health insurance under the Affordable Care Act, and the 
Children's Health Insurance Program are all healthcare programs that 
are absolutely essential not only to my State of Florida but to all 
States. Since we have a higher percentage of the population who are 
senior citizens, obviously, Medicare is an extremely important one to 
that segment of our population, who depend on Medicare for their 
healthcare.
  When you look at the Affordable Care Act, which brought healthcare 
through health insurance to millions and millions of Americans who had 
not had it before, my State of Florida signed up more people than any 
other State. Some 1.7 million Floridians signed up

[[Page S488]]

for coverage through healthcare.gov. That was despite the Trump 
Administration's efforts this past year to undermine the health law by 
doing such things as not allowing people to get out and give the 
counseling. So it was on a much lower scale than what had been done 
before.
  My worry is, looking out for the people of Florida, that Mr. Azar 
will continue to support the administration's efforts to destroy the 
law and all of the good things it has done, where it has now provided 
health insurance for so many people--so many people that never had 
health insurance before. The 1.7 million Floridians who signed up again 
for health insurance through healthcare.gov is a good example.
  One of the statements that Mr. Azar has made--and people in the Trump 
Administration have been trying to undermine the ACA--is that, in 
effect, there is no way to fix the law.
  Let's turn to Medicaid and CHIP, or the Children's Health Insurance 
Program. Mr. Azar, I am told, supports changing the structure of the 
Medicaid Program into a block grant. Ever since the Medicaid law was 
passed, it sets up, according to whether or not a State has a poor 
citizenry, a formula that shares money from the Federal Government, and 
the State matches a certain percentage. In Florida, that is anywhere 
from 55 percent to 60 percent Federal to approximately 45 percent to 40 
percent from the State of Florida. For other States, like Mississippi--
with a poor, rural population that needs healthcare but can't afford 
healthcare--their Medicaid formula is much more paid for by the Federal 
Government with a lower match from the State.
  If you put Medicaid into a block grant, that means the State is only 
going to get so much money, regardless of whether the population 
swells. If the needs are greater, that money is it. It is not flexible 
with the eligibility of people because of their income status. I simply 
don't think that is right. It is these kinds of issues that concern me 
greatly about Mr. Azar.
  Look at Medicare. As I mentioned, we have a higher percentage of the 
population that is made up of senior citizens. In Florida, that 
translates to 4 million senior citizens who depend on Medicare. They 
are over 65 years of age, and they are eligible for Medicare. That is 
the way they access their healthcare.
  When I asked Mr. Azar about his perspective on changes to the 
Medicare Program, his answer was deficient. This is what I asked: Do 
you support raising the Medicare eligibility age?
  In other words, a senior would not be eligible for Medicare--
healthcare--at age 65; the age requirement would be increased. He did 
not give me an answer.
  I asked: Do you support turning Medicare into a voucher program?
  According to CBO estimates, privatizing Medicare would increase 
premiums by 30 percent, so I wanted to find out whether, as Secretary 
of HHS, he would want to turn Medicare into a voucher program. He 
dodged that question.
  I tried a third time with another question to give him a chance to 
give a straight answer on the record in the Finance Committee. I asked 
him whether he supports allowing Medicare providers to enter into 
private contracts with patients instead of the set benefit that a 
senior knows he is eligible for under the law to get those Medicare 
benefits.
  The practice of entering into private contracts between doctors and 
other Medicare providers is prohibited under Medicare because it would 
place seniors on the hook for the difference between what an insurer 
would pay--an insurance company--and what the doctor or the other 
provider would charge. That would result in a higher out-of-pocket cost 
for the senior citizen.
  Remember, the question was, do you support allowing Medicare 
providers to enter into private contracts with patients?
  This is what he said: ``The mission of HHS is to enhance and protect 
the health and the well-being of all Americans, through programs that 
touch every single American in some way, every single day. As 
Secretary, my job would be to lead HHS in its work toward its 
mission.''
  That is not what I asked. I asked specifically whether he wanted to 
privatize the Medicare benefits and the mechanism by which those 
benefits would be delivered. That does not give me assurance on behalf 
of our senior citizens in Florida. To the contrary, if you were to talk 
to a group of our senior citizens and say that you want changes to 
Medicare, I can tell you what that would do. That would put a ripple of 
chills down the spines of senior citizens, for them to think their 
Medicare would be taken away from them.
  Thus, Mr. Azar is a gentleman who is delightful and obviously skilled 
in the pharmaceutical drug industry. Yet, when we got right down to how 
he was going to run the HHS as Secretary, I was not assured that our 
seniors were going to be protected in their healthcare or that poor 
people were going to be protected in their Medicaid or that the 20-some 
million people--including the almost 2 million in Florida--who now have 
healthcare on the private insurance exchange, offered through the 
Affordable Care Act, were not going to be undermined.
  There is just no way that I think this is the appropriate person to 
be the Secretary of Health and Human Services; therefore, I will vote 
no.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Connecticut.
  Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, I come to the floor to express my 
opposition to the nomination of Alex Azar to be the next Secretary of 
the Department of Health and Human Services.
  Let me admit to the Chamber that this, for me, was certainly not as 
easy a call as was the first vote on the nomination for this position 
when Congressman Price was up for the job. I want to talk about the 
reasons for my vote in opposition, but I first want to begin by giving 
the nominee some credit for, I think, a very important series of 
exchanges that he had before the committee.
  One of the biggest potential disasters that would have been visited 
upon this country by 4 years of Secretary Price would have been the 
reversal of 8 years of transformation in the way that we pay for 
healthcare through Medicare, primarily.
  In 2011, Medicare made almost no payments to providers through what 
we call alternative payment models. I know this sounds a little weedy, 
but this is really the way that we drive down healthcare costs in this 
country, and it is something that Republicans and Democrats should be 
focused on together.
  Alternative payment models generally refer to a switch in the way 
that we pay for healthcare--a move away from reimbursing providers 
based on how much medicine they practice to a reimbursement system that 
rewards providers for the outcomes that they achieve--in fact, 
rewarding hospitals and doctors and clinicians when they keep their 
patients out of the doctor's office or out of the emergency room or out 
of the hospital. This is the exact opposite of what the existing system 
does, which rewards hospital systems and doctors the more that their 
patients show up in the emergency rooms and the doctors' offices and in 
the hospitals.
  In the House of Representatives, Tom Price was the leader of the 
opposition to what we call value-based payment and was the chief 
defender of fee-for-service payment. While the Obama administration had 
made remarkable progress--it had set a goal of moving 30 percent of all 
Medicare payments over to outcome-based payments, which they achieved 
by the end of 2016--Secretary Price was in the process of moving all of 
that backward.

  The reason I say that my vote here against Mr. Azar was not a slam 
dunk--it is not a slam dunk--is that I give him credit for his 
testimony on this question of alternative payments. In answer to a 
question posed by Senator Whitehouse, he said that one of the greatest 
legacies of Secretary Burwell's tenure was in the launching of so many 
of the alternative payment models that we have out there.
  I would like to keep driving that forward for all of us who care so 
deeply about reducing costs in our healthcare system, about integration 
and coordination, and in our just thinking about ways to deliver better 
for our patients and beneficiaries. There are so many opportunities for 
bipartisanship here because we share so many of the same goals on this.

[[Page S489]]

  I applaud Mr. Azar for his seriousness about working with Democrats 
and Republicans to try to shift our payment system over to something 
that makes more sense, for his openness about how important the Obama-
era reforms were, and for his decision, if he gets this job, to reverse 
some of the sabotaging of those alternative payment models that 
Secretary Price began.
  Unfortunately, my enthusiasm for Mr. Azar's statements on alternative 
payment models through Medicare are outweighed by his inability to 
convince the HELP Committee or the Finance Committee that he is going 
to be a responsible steward of the Affordable Care Act. This is from 
where much of my worry comes, in part because Connecticut is a State 
that has efficiently, ably, and responsibly implemented the Affordable 
Care Act. We have hundreds of thousands of people in our State who now 
have insurance because of the expansion of Medicaid and because of the 
successful offering of plans to the uninsured through Connecticut's 
exchange.
  It was perplexing to those of us on the HELP Committee that Mr. Azar 
seemed to defend the administration's decisions to sabotage and 
undermine the Affordable Care Act. He even went so far as to try to 
spin those changes as to be a strengthening of the law, which simply 
does not pass the straight face test. I get it. During a confirmation 
hearing, it is very hard for a nominee who may serve in the Cabinet to 
be critical of the Commander in Chief, the person who has chosen him 
for the job. Yet it is obvious for everybody to see what is happening 
by the canceling of payments to insurance companies that helped 
compensate them for the most expensive patients, by eliminating all of 
the funding for the marketing and advertising of the exchanges, by 
shortening the enrollment period in half, by constantly going on social 
media and telling all prospective enrollees of ObamaCare that the ACA 
is dead even though it is not dead--even though, as we found out, just 
as many people signed up this year as signed up last year despite the 
campaign to undermine it.
  We all know that this is an obvious campaign of sabotage--that 
President Trump is trying to kill the Affordable Care Act 
administratively because he can't convince the American public to press 
Congress to do away with it. The Affordable Care Act has the support of 
the American public today, and that is the reason Congress could not 
repeal it.
  It was very troubling to me that Mr. Azar didn't acknowledge this 
campaign of sabotage, which leads me to believe he is going to fulfill 
instructions from the administration, from the White House, to continue 
it. He went so far during the questioning with me to suggest that 
shortening the enrollment period actually would help consumers with 
something that the insurance companies were asking for. That is not 
true. The insurance companies were not asking for that in Connecticut. 
That does not help consumers, certainly, when you are also withdrawing 
all of the money for marketing and advertising that would have been 
used to tell people that the enrollment period was being shortened.
  At the same time that I am going to vote no on this nomination 
because I am deeply worried that as Secretary Mr. Azar is going to 
continue this campaign of ACA sabotage, I do look forward to working 
with him in a bipartisan way on payment reform--if he will allow it 
with those of us who will vote against his nomination.
  As much time as we spend in the Senate talking about coverage, 
frankly, the more important, long-term reform is in the changing of how 
we pay for healthcare because if we fundamentally change the way we pay 
for healthcare and start rewarding good outcomes rather than just 
rewarding more medicine being practiced, then we will save enough money 
to insure everybody in this country through a means that both the 
Republicans and Democrats can support.
  I am going to vote no. I encourage my colleagues who care about the 
effective administration of the Affordable Care Act to vote no. 
Remember, it is a remarkable success story that 20 million people have 
insurance. People know the strength of the Affordable Care Act. That is 
why they pressed Congress not to repeal it. Despite the undermining 
campaign, just as many people signed up this year as last year, which 
is, frankly, extraordinary. I would hope that those people here who 
believe in the Affordable Care Act, as the American people do, will 
oppose this nomination. At the same time, I hope that there are 
significant ways, if he is confirmed, that we can work together with 
Secretary Azar.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Oregon.


                        Rohingya Refugee Crisis

  Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, on August 25, a minority group of 
Rohingya militants proceeded to attack a number of Burmese police 
outposts in northern Rakhine State, and they inflicted injuries and 
killed about 12 members of the country's security forces in the 
process. These attacks certainly must be condemned, but they have 
triggered a response by the Burmese Government and military that is 
beyond horrific--attacks by the Burmese Government and military that 
have inflicted a massive humanitarian crisis in that nation.
  The Burmese military, aided by mobs of local vigilantes, carried out 
the violence against the Rohingya people in a systematic way. These are 
people who have been in Burma for generations, but they have been 
stripped of their citizenship under Burmese law. In the attacks that 
followed, Doctors Without Borders estimates that well over 6,000 men, 
women, and children were murdered in just the first month of this 
ongoing assault, and that included hundreds of children--an estimated 
700 children ages 5 and under.
  The survivors have shared countless stories of women being raped, men 
murdered, children murdered in the most inhumane ways imaginable. Human 
Rights Watch has reported that the Burmese military and the associated 
vigilantes have burned 354 villages to the ground. The response of the 
Rohingya has been to flee the country, desperately fleeing as fast as 
they could the systematic violence inflicted upon them--systematic 
rape, systematic shooting, the murder of children. The result is that 
650,000 people have fled to the adjoining country of Bangladesh, where 
they are now establishing refugee camps.
  These camps are a big improvement from being attacked, shot, 
murdered, and raped inside Burma, but the camps themselves are just a 
jumble of split bamboo frames with plastic draped over the tops of 
them. You can see here in this photo that the ground has been cleared 
away and people have shoveled out relatively flat sections of the 
hillside, split bamboo into little pieces, tied them together with 
threads, and draped plastic over the top of them.
  I wonder what will happen when the monsoons come or a severe 
windstorm comes. I don't think these shelters are going to hold up.
  The overcrowded conditions and poor sanitation in these camps put 
them directly at risk for diseases like diphtheria and cholera, and 
these camps--full of displaced, disenfranchised, angry young men--are 
also recruiting grounds for violent extremist groups like ISIS. This 
is, in the words of the United Nations, the fastest growing refugee 
emergency in the world. It is unacceptable, and America needs to pay 
attention and respond.
  The flow of refugees has continued, even until now. The numbers have 
dropped. There aren't that many Rohingya left inside of Burma. The 
Governments of Burma and Bangladesh are discussing a repatriation 
strategy on how these individuals may be able to return to Burma, and 
they have a framework for a plan. Burma says that they will welcome 
them and let them go home. They have even said that they can return to 
where their villages were burned and have assistance in rebuilding 
their homes and community structures.
  In the first step, they say that they will house them in reception 
camps, and they also say that they may put them into model villages. 
These words ``reception camps'' and ``model villages'' are words for 
encampments that are based on what is already in much of Rakhine, 
central Rakhine State, which are long-term camps that are essentially 
prison camps--prison camps for the Rohingya.
  If this is not going to unfold in this manner, the world has to be 
engaged. Right now, of course, the Rohingya who have fled this horrific 
violence are

[[Page S490]]

not anxious to return immediately because they don't believe the 
government will protect them. If you had been subjected to a horrific 
rampage of slaughter and violence, why would you immediately go back to 
that unless the circumstances were dramatically modified? Can they 
depend upon the Burmese Government to protect them when they haven't 
protected them since August? Can they depend upon the Burmese military 
to protect them when the Burmese military perpetrated these crimes?
  Repatriation is important. The ability to go back to the villages and 
rebuild them is important, and time is of the essence for it to happen 
in a way that is really going to work. The international community is 
going to have to be involved.
  Let's understand that this assault, which went from August even until 
now, is not a one-time occurrence. It is the latest in a long line of 
atrocious assaults on the Rohingya people. In 1978, Burma's military 
launched Operation King Dragon, causing more than 200,000 Rohingya to 
flee to Bangladesh. There were similar campaigns of assault in 1992 and 
in 2012 and in 2015 and in 2016, none as horrific as what was witnessed 
just a few months ago, in August of 2017, but terrible assaults 
nonetheless.

  Time and again, the Rohingya people have been subjected to abuse, 
persecution, and violence, and recognize this isn't just a tactic that 
the Burmese Government and Burmese military have used against the 
Rohingya. They have used it against other minorities--this systematic 
strategy of burning the village, shooting people as they flee, and 
raping the mothers and daughters. We have seen this with assaults on 
ethnic minorities in the Shan and Kachin States, where people have 
faced very similar persecution. In fact, in those States, over 100,000 
people have been displaced by the military since 2011. So the United 
States and the world must not only stand up and say that this ethnic 
cleansing against the Rohingya is wrong, but also say that this 
strategy being used by the Burmese military against minorities is 
absolutely unacceptable under any code of moral conduct, under any 
religious vision, under any civilized understanding of the treatment of 
citizens.
  Much of what took place over the last few decades was out of sight of 
the world because Burma was closed off to the world. But then Burma 
went through a diplomatic awakening, the budding of democratic 
institutions, and they have been more open to the world, so now we can 
see very vividly what is going on. They are not hidden, and there is no 
excuse for the world to turn away and not engage.
  Neither the Burmese Government nor the military is ready for 
international cooperation. They have left the international community 
out of the process of trying to address these issues. They have 
rejected the United Nations High Commissioner on Refugees--no 
international monitoring allowed and freedom of the press curtailed.
  The Rohingya people are right to be wary of how they will be 
repatriated without significant international involvement, without 
strongly developed measures for their safety, without a changed 
attitude by the government.
  That is why, yesterday in the Senate, I introduced a resolution 
calling for international pressure and oversight to be brought to bear 
on the repatriation process. It calls upon the United Nations High 
Commissioner for Refugees to play a central role in ensuring that any 
repatriation of the Rohingya people is safe, voluntary, and dignified.
  The concern for the treatment of the Rohingya is bipartisan. I 
appreciate the 14 Senators who have already cosponsored my resolution. 
Particular thanks go to Senator John McCain and to Senator Todd Young 
not only for supporting this resolution but also for being advocates 
for the Rohingya people and for global human rights.
  I was profoundly shocked when the Burmese military started these 
massive assaults back in August. I knew it was important for our 
government to pay attention, for the people of the United States to pay 
attention, and for Members of this Senate to pay attention and to weigh 
in and try to create pressure to end the persecution and create a 
different path for the future.
  In the month that followed, there was a lot of international outcry 
about how wrong this was, and First State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi, 
who is Burma's head of state, responded with a speech to the world 
through the United Nations. She invited the world ``to go with us into 
the troubled areas. . . . See for yourself what is happening and think 
for yourself: what can we do to remove these problems?''
  I applauded that attitude and that invitation to the world to be 
engaged and be involved and see what was happening. Senator Durbin and 
I, along with three Members of the House--Congresswoman Betty McCollum 
from Minnesota, Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky from Illinois, and 
Congressman David Cicilline from Rhode Island--came together and 
accepted her invitation. We accepted her offer, and we planned a trip 
for November to go see the troubled areas in Burma, just as Aung San 
Suu Kyi had suggested.
  We intended to go to the afflicted areas. We intended to see for 
ourselves what was happening. We intended to talk to those left behind 
to get as full a story as possible. And we intended, as she indicated, 
to think of what we can do to reverse the situation.
  The Burmese Government worked with us to plan this trip. It involved 
a tremendous amount of logistics on how we could get to northern 
Rakhine State. But at the very last moment, just as we were getting 
ready to leave Washington, DC, the government reversed course. The 
Government of Burma said: We invited you, but now we will block you 
from visiting these afflicted areas.
  Clearly, the Burmese Government and military had a lot to hide. Their 
invitation to the world from the Nobel laureate, Aung San Suu Kyi, 
turned out not to be sincere. She did not stand behind her invitation. 
She did not ensure that the world could come and see what was going on.
  We were not allowed to visit the villages that had been burned. We 
were not allowed to visit camps from the previous repatriation of 
individuals, called internally displaced persons camps, or IDP camps.
  We were allowed to fly into the capital of Rakhine State, Sittwe. In 
the capital of Sittwe, there was something there that I didn't expect 
at all. In the capital, there is a section of the city that is referred 
to as the Muslim quarter, the Muslim neighborhood. It is called Aung 
Mingalar. We were told we could go visit the Muslim quarter, Aung 
Mingalar, and so we did. This is a street in Aung Mingalar. At the end 
of the street, you have a police station, and you have a fence. In 
fact, every route out of this neighborhood is blocked by police.

  The people who live there are not currently trapped by high walls and 
extensive barbed wire, but it is illegal for them to leave this 
neighborhood--think of the early stages of the Warsaw ghetto in Poland. 
I had no idea this existed, and it is an indication of the situation 
the Rohingya live in, not just in this quarter, but there are 120,000 
of them in camps that have been set up where they are not allowed to 
operate as a normal individual, in a normal economy, in a normal 
village. This neighborhood is functionally sealed off from the rest of 
the city. They cannot leave and go a short distance away to open their 
shops, so they have no means to support themselves. They are trapped in 
a neighborhood cage with the barriers, police station, and consequences 
if they leave without permission.
  If they have a medical emergency, then what they have to do is get 
permission to leave to travel to an IDP camp--internally displaced 
persons camp--see a doctor at the IDP camp, get a referral to the 
hospital, return back to their neighborhood, and then go to the 
hospital that is just 5 minutes away. So it is a trip of many hours in 
order to go to the healthcare facility that is just minutes away. Can 
you imagine what that is like in a health emergency? Why? It is just a 
direct affliction on these Muslim residents in this Buddhist nation.
  They are dependent to survive on relatives who have found a path to 
other countries who can send money back to them so they can purchase 
goods, and they are also dependent upon the government. The government 
provides teachers for the higher high school-level classrooms, and 
those teachers disappeared after the August assaults and haven't 
returned. The children of this neighborhood are not allowed to go to 
the universities. So this may not

[[Page S491]]

look so horrific unless you know the facts; that it is a zone that is 
essentially a prison inside the capital city for the Muslim residents.
  In order to learn more, our delegation traveled to Bangladesh to the 
refugee camps. We went to a camp called Balukhali, and that visit 
brought home the breadth and horror of the human rights crisis that 
these men, women, and children have endured. Speak to any member of the 
delegation, and they will tell you that articles and reports written 
about what has happened are not the same as hearing firsthand and face-
to-face the stories of the atrocities the Rohingya refugees have 
suffered. At Balukhali, Senator Durbin and I went into a temporary 
classroom with tarp over the top where women had gathered to learn 
about sanitation and disease prevention, and I asked the interpreter 
who was with us: Would you ask these women if they have stories they 
would like to share? I wasn't sure these Muslim women, covered in 
traditional Muslim clothing, would be willing to share a story with an 
outsider, but they immediately responded. One woman jumped up, and she 
pulled the cloth off her arm to show the scars from the burns she had 
as her village hut came down around her as she tried to escape. Then 
other women jumped up to tell other stories--of a child being killed in 
front of her, of a husband being slaughtered, of the trials and 
tribulations of trying to escape the assault from the military. Every 
person in that room had tragic and horrifying stories to share--entire 
villages burned to the ground, entire villages fleeing for the border, 
being shot at by solders as they tried to cross the border into 
Bangladesh. They themselves did not share stories about the rapes, but 
they shared those stories with the doctors and others who shared the 
stories with us.
  As you walk around the camp, you see a lot of young kids, a lot of 
children. Some are helping out with their families. Some are orphans. 
Some are kicking balls around. I watched one young man run with a 
little sheet of plastic that he had put split bamboo on to create a 
little tiny kite, and they could get that thing about 10 feet in the 
air. He had a smile on his face, and you could almost envision these 
were regular children growing up like others around the world.
  Then I went and visited with a group of the children who were doing 
drawings, and when you saw their drawings, you realized what they had 
been through. Here I am talking to a young boy who is showing me his 
drawing of a helicopter and a military vehicle coming into the village. 
Here is one of the drawings that was held up. You see the helicopter 
shooting at the village and the drawing of the machineguns. The village 
house is under assault. Here is another child's drawings, and again 
there are helicopters. You see the houses built on stilts. Here is a 
military man on the ground shooting at them as they are playing. These 
children have been through horrific, horrific trauma. Their families 
have been fractured, they may not have a mother or father, and somehow 
they are going forward in life.

  I would like to say that the situation has improved since our trip, 
but the situation is still extremely bad. Take a look at this map from 
Human Rights Watch. These red dots are villages that have been burned--
all of these, these two lines of villages. At last count, 354 villages 
burned, and it wasn't just in August and September but the burning 
continued. The Human Rights Watch said in October and November, another 
40 villages were burned. In fact, one was burning on November 25 right 
after our delegation returned to the United States of America.
  Is it any wonder the Burmese Government didn't want us going in to 
see any of these sites firsthand? We are not the only ones who were 
denied access. All of the U.N. organizations, including a factfinding 
mission and an investigator named Yanghee Lee, were stopped from 
visiting these afflicted areas. International aid groups like the Red 
Cross were denied access.
  A mass grave containing the bodies of a group of Muslims was 
uncovered in Rakhine State's Inn Din village just north of Sittwe, the 
capital where we were. In a rather shocking first, the Burmese military 
actually accepted responsibility for the deaths, claiming that soldiers 
and villagers reacted to provocation from terrorists and that those who 
were involved would be punished. Do you think they are really going to 
be punished? I will tell you who gets punished. It is reporters, and 
these are the two reporters who reported it. Where are they? They are 
in prison--Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo, two reporters for Reuters. 
Shouldn't the United States and the international community demand that 
they be set free and demand those who perpetrated these crimes against 
humanity be the ones in prison? These two young men have been charged 
with violating the country's Official Secrets Act and are facing 14 
years in prison for ``illegally'' acquiring information and sharing it 
with foreign media. It sounds to me like these two reporters were doing 
exactly what Aung San Suu Kyi, the Nobel laureate, said: Come and see.
  There is a continuing cycle of violence and radicalization. Burma 
justifies their actions as a response to attacks by ARSA, but let's 
recognize a very small group of attacks occurred, and then the response 
was hundreds of thousands of people had their villages burned to the 
ground and were driven out of the country.
  Well, there is going to be perpetuation of a cycle of violence unless 
the mindset of the Government of Burma changes dramatically. Right now, 
we need to be engaged in the possibility of repatriation because it is 
urgent that these refugees get a chance to return to their villages and 
rebuild them, but it will not happen unless we insist on deep 
involvement by the United Nations.
  Reflecting on the Rwandan genocide 4 years afterward, President 
Clinton said:

       We owe to those who died and to those who survived who 
     loved them, our every effort to increase our vigilance and 
     strengthen our stand against those who would commit such 
     atrocities in the future here or elsewhere.
       Indeed, we owe it to all the peoples of the world who are 
     at risk because each bloodletting hastens the next as the 
     value of human life is degraded and violence becomes 
     tolerated, the unimaginable becomes more conceivable.

  For the thousands of Rohingya slaughtered and the hundreds of 
thousands more who survived and fled, the unimaginable has become all 
too conceivable. Five months after these atrocities began, 5 months 
tomorrow, in fact, the world has not heard from our President about 
this horrific ethnic cleansing.
  I encourage President Trump to weigh in on this, to speak with moral 
clarity, to condemn the Burmese Government for executing this horrific 
case of ethnic cleansing, to praise and support Bangladesh for opening 
its doors, to call on the world to provide Bangladesh with 
international resources to help address the plight of the refugees, to 
demand the safe and internationally monitored opportunity for the 
Rohingya refugees to return to their villages, rebuild their homes, and 
rebuild their lives.
  We in the Senate must not be silenced. Thank you, again, to my 14 
colleagues who have already signed on to this resolution. Our 
repatriation resolution calls on Nobel laureate and head of state Aung 
San Suu Kyi and Burma's other civilian leaders and military leaders to 
recognize that longstanding prejudices haunt Burma and commit to 
implementing all the recommendations of Kofi Annan's Advisory 
Commission on Rakhine State, which seeks to end the discrimination 
against the Rohingya and reduce the tension with other minorities.
  The Burmese Government could begin doing so immediately by lifting 
restrictions on the IDP camps and the Aung Mingalar, while planning to 
shut down the IDP camps entirely and restoring the opportunity for full 
participation in society.
  We call upon Burma to work with Bangladesh and the U.N. High 
Commissioner for Refugees to ensure the voluntary and safe repatriation 
of refugees. Safety must be assured for these refugees. There must be 
no forcible repatriation. It must be voluntary, it must be safe, and it 
must be monitored by an international organization. We can make sure 
they get assistance in returning to rebuild their homes and their 
lives.
  We must call on Burma and Aung San Suu Kyi to embrace transparency, 
to grant humanitarian aid groups access, to release the two journalists 
in prison for doing their jobs. Finally, we

[[Page S492]]

must call on the international community to invest in the future of the 
Rohingya people. Everyone has a part to play in the economic 
development of the Rakhine State--the poorest state in Burma--for the 
benefit of all.
  In closing, anyone who looks at the events that have occurred since 
last August can plainly see the massive scale of human catastrophe. Let 
it not continue. The world that cried out ``never again'' so 
passionately decades ago, that rallied against the war crimes of 
Kosovo, that condemned the Rwandan genocide has an obligation to stand 
up once again--this time in Burma--for the universal right of every 
human to live in peace, free from fear and free from persecution.
  Thank you.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Wyoming.


                        Nomination of R.D. James

  Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I rise in support of the nomination of 
R.D. James to serve as Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works. 
The Assistant Secretary establishes policy direction and provides 
leadership for the Civil Works programs at the U.S. Army Corps of 
Engineers.
  In this position, Mr. James will play a central role ensuring the 
navigability of America's ports and inland waterways. He will oversee 
the Army Corps' flood and storm risk management and responses to 
emergencies like the hurricanes we saw in Florida and Texas this past 
fall.
  Mr. James will also play a central role in modernizing America's 
aging water infrastructure. This month, the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works, which I chair, has held two hearings on the needs and 
challenges facing America's water infrastructure. These hearings are 
important steps as the committee works toward a new Water Resources 
Development Act, which will be reauthorized this year.
  It is critical to have Mr. James confirmed so he can partner with us 
in this important process. I look forward to working with Mr. James on 
projects and issues that are important to my home State of Wyoming. He 
has already committed to me that he will work to find a permanent 
solution to preventing ice-jam floods, like those that caused the Big 
Horn River to flood the city of Worland, WY.
  There is no reason this confirmation should be delayed any further. 
His nomination was unanimously approved by voice vote in both the 
Senate Armed Services Committee and the Environment and Public Works 
Committee. Mr. James is well qualified for this position.
  He has served as a civil engineer member of the Mississippi River 
Commission since 1981. That is 37 years. He was appointed to that 
position by both Democratic and Republican Presidents. Mr. James is 
also an accomplished farmer and businessman. He is experienced, 
qualified, and ready to start.
  It is time for the Senate to confirm his nomination.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Cotton). The Senator from Missouri.
  Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, I wish to thank Senator Barrasso and 
Senator Carper for their bipartisan work to get this nomination to the 
floor.
  I have known R.D. James for a long time. He understands the projects 
involved, the work involved, and the challenges involved. He is a civil 
engineer and brings a lot of experience to this job.
  The work of Senator Carper and Senator Barrasso is deeply 
appreciated. I think it will be appreciated by the Corps and the 
Department of Defense.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Oregon.
  Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, the Senate has been running a bit behind. I 
wanted to accommodate my Republican colleagues.
  I ask unanimous consent that the vote be moved to 2:20 p.m., rather 
than 2:15 p.m., on Mr. Azar.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, a year ago, the President stormed into 
office promising better, cheaper healthcare for everyone. He said he 
would bring prescription drug prices down because, in his words, drug 
companies were ``getting away with murder.''
  So as we move to this vote, as the senior Democrat on the Finance 
Committee, I wanted to make sure we took stock after year 1. The Trump 
record on healthcare is worse than your garden variety case of a 
President failing to live up to his campaign promises. This President 
has surely hurt the people he promised to help. Very shortly, the 
Senate will vote on the nomination of Alex Azar to be the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services. In this position, he would be the captain of 
the President's healthcare team. So in my view, this debate is about a 
lot more than Mr. Azar's resume. It is a referendum on a year of 
healthcare failure, particularly on prescription drug costs, and it is 
a referendum on what I consider to be a healthcare agenda of 
discrimination.
  I am going to begin with the skyrocketing prescription drug prices 
because they are a gut punch for millions of Americans each time they 
step up to the pharmacy window. Few promises the President made with 
respect to healthcare resonated more than his promise to bring down 
prescription drug prices, but now, a year later, he has chosen Alex 
Azar, a drug company executive with a documented history of raising 
drug prices.
  From 2012 until last year, he was the head of Eli Lilly's American 
subsidiary, Lilly USA. He chaired its U.S. pricing, reimbursement, and 
access steering committee, which gave him a major role over drug price 
increases for every product Lilly marketed in America. On Mr. Azar's 
watch, Lilly more than doubled the prices of drugs used to treat 
diabetes, osteoporosis, heart disease, and ADHD. And these are only 
some of the drugs under his purview.
  He told the Finance Committee staff that he had never once approved a 
decrease in the price of a drug at Lilly. Mr. Azar said: That is just 
how the system works. Prices always go up. I would say that Mr. Azar 
may have had his facts straight about the system, but that doesn't make 
it right. Mr. Azar was a part of this broken system, and despite the 
cheerful overtures that he has made to Senators on both sides of the 
aisle over the last few weeks about how he wants to work on the issue, 
he has not offered even a single concrete example of how he would 
actually change the system he said is broken. He will not give us an 
example of how he would change it to make it better.
  Members of this body, Democrats and Republicans, have come forward 
with specifics about what they would do to help those Americans getting 
clobbered at the prescription drug windows across the land. We have 
colleagues who are for drug importation. We have colleagues who are for 
more negotiating power for Medicare. We have colleagues who understand 
the challenge with the pharmaceutical benefit managers, where there is 
so little transparency. We asked Mr. Azar repeatedly for examples, but 
all he had to say about this system that was so broken is that he would 
be ``open'' to ideas.

  As important as that is, there is a whole lot more for Senators to 
reflect on as they think about this vote. After a year in office, the 
Trump administration is steadily and relentlessly enacting a healthcare 
agenda of discrimination--discrimination against those with preexisting 
conditions, discrimination against women, discrimination against LGBTQ 
Americans, discrimination against those struggling to get ahead. The 
question up for debate today ought to be whether or not this nominee to 
head this critical office of healthcare policy is going to end that 
discrimination.
  Colleagues, as you think about this vote, all I can tell you is that 
when you review the record--in the face of an administration moving 
relentlessly to promote discrimination in healthcare--there is not a 
shred of evidence that Mr. Azar is going to try to stop it, reform it, 
or in any way try to make sure that those Americans--all of them--get a 
fair shake.
  From day one, in addition to this pattern of discrimination, the 
administration has been on a campaign of sabotage against the 
Affordable Care Act and the private health insurance markets. They cut 
the open enrollment period in half. They slashed the advertising 
budgets. They made it harder for people to sign up in person. That is 
the major reason why the number of Americans without insurance coverage 
increased by more than 3 million last year. Our friends and our 
neighbors are one sudden illness or injury away from the nightmare of 
personal bankruptcy

[[Page S493]]

as a result of the healthcare policies this administration has pursued 
and cheered.
  Even worse--and I touched on this yesterday--the administration is 
bringing back to life junk insurance, letting fraudsters get back into 
the insurance business with health plans that aren't worth the paper 
they are printed on. It takes me back to my days as codirector of the 
Oregon Gray Panthers. Back then, I met older people who sometimes had 
15 or even 20 private insurance policies to supplement their Medicare. 
Those policies were junk. Some of them were just out-and-out scams.
  So the Congress passed a law. I was proud to be a part of that 
bipartisan coalition to change it to protect older people. The law 
worked. We drained the swamp when it came to those fraudsters ripping 
off seniors. Then 8 years ago, some of the key parts of the Affordable 
Care Act put consumer protections in place so that nobody of working 
age would get ripped off with junk insurance. It is those policies and 
those people that the Trump administration would let the fraudsters 
exploit because the Trump administration wants to undo those 
protections against fraudsters who are ripping off those of working 
age.
  They have already taken steps on what are called Association Health 
Plans. Next up are short-term plans that are likely to be even worse.
  What this comes down to is the Trump administration's tradition of 
turning back the clock on healthcare and allowing junk insurance to 
discriminate over preexisting conditions and age. This is going to be a 
big test for Mr. Azar if he is confirmed.
  I would just ask my colleagues: We will see if Mr. Azar is going to 
look the other way and allow scam artists to peddle junk coverage, or 
is he going to protect Americans who need care and health coverage they 
can count on?
  There is also an array of discriminatory policies with respect to 
women's health. They tried to take away guaranteed no-cost access to 
contraception, essentially taxing women for their gender. Fortunately, 
that move has been held up in the courts. They overturned longstanding 
protections dealing with States and family planning--what amounts to an 
attack on a woman's right to see the doctor of her choosing and an 
attack on Planned Parenthood.
  They are broadening exceptions that give employers and universities 
say over what healthcare women can access. When asked on these issues 
during his nomination hearing, Mr. Azar said: ``We have to balance, of 
course, a woman's choice of insurance that she would want with the 
conscience of employers and others.'' My counter to that is absolutely 
not. There is no balancing women's choices against anything. In 
America, a woman's choice of healthcare ought to be her choice and 
nobody else's.
  In much the same way as going after women's healthcare, this 
administration is permitting discrimination against LGBTQ Americans in 
need of healthcare.
  Then, finally, there is Medicaid. In just the last few weeks, the 
administration has been giving States a green light to slap punitive, 
new requirements and limitations on Americans covered by State Medicaid 
Programs. This action by Health and Human Services goes after people 
across the country who are working on an economic tightrope. They are 
people who are taking care of kids or elderly parents or who are 
struggling with a chronic condition.
  These punitive new requirements aren't going to improve anybody's 
healthcare. As the first waivers are coming out from the Department of 
Health and Human Services, the public is learning some disturbing 
details. In Kentucky, the State is introducing what sounds a lot like a 
literacy test for healthcare. Nobody in this body should have to be 
reminded that the history of literacy tests is an ugly and 
discriminatory one. That is the wrong direction to take on healthcare.
  I close by saying that the record after 1 year shows that the Trump 
agenda on healthcare isn't about improving care for all Americans. The 
Trump agenda on healthcare is about discrimination and ideology.
  So the question, as my colleagues come over to this floor to cast 
their votes, is whether the Trump administration is going to be allowed 
to continue to turn back the clock and advance discrimination. Given 
the opportunity to demonstrate that he would actually lead the 
Department in a new direction, he came up short. So I will not support 
his nomination.

  Through my time in public service, back from those early days working 
with the senior citizens, I have always said: Healthcare has to be a 
bipartisan issue. To do healthcare right, you have to find a way to 
bring people together.
  If Mr. Azar is confirmed, I hope he will make his stated willingness 
to listen to ideas a reality and begin to work closely with colleagues 
on both sides of the aisle to actually make some changes in these key 
areas I have described. From policies where we just sit on the 
sidelines with our skyrocketing drug prices, to sitting out in the 
fight against opioids, to allowing discrimination against women, to 
rolling back the protections on Medicaid--these are issues that go 
right to the heart of the health and safety of millions of Americans.
  Mr. Azar certainly does not carry the ethical baggage of his 
predecessor, Tom Price. The question for the Senate this afternoon--
after we have asked him again and again and again to give any examples 
of how he would break with these harmful policies of the last year, we 
have come up short. So I regret to say to the Senate that I am going to 
oppose this nomination.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, all time is yielded back.
  Under the previous order, all postcloture time has expired.
  The question is, Will the Senate advise and consent to the Azar 
nomination?
  Mr. BURR. I ask for the yeas and nays.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a sufficient second?
  There appears to be a sufficient second.
  The clerk will call the roll.
  The bill clerk called the roll.
  Mr. CORNYN. The following Senators are necessarily absent: the 
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. Corker) and the Senator from Arizona (Mr. 
McCain).
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there any other Senators in the Chamber 
desiring to vote?
  The result was announced--yeas 55, nays 43, as follows:

                       [Rollcall Vote No. 21 Ex.]

                                YEAS--55

     Alexander
     Barrasso
     Blunt
     Boozman
     Burr
     Capito
     Carper
     Cassidy
     Cochran
     Collins
     Coons
     Cornyn
     Cotton
     Crapo
     Cruz
     Daines
     Donnelly
     Enzi
     Ernst
     Fischer
     Flake
     Gardner
     Graham
     Grassley
     Hatch
     Heitkamp
     Heller
     Hoeven
     Inhofe
     Isakson
     Johnson
     Jones
     Kennedy
     King
     Lankford
     Lee
     Manchin
     McConnell
     Moran
     Murkowski
     Perdue
     Portman
     Risch
     Roberts
     Rounds
     Rubio
     Sasse
     Scott
     Shelby
     Sullivan
     Thune
     Tillis
     Toomey
     Wicker
     Young

                                NAYS--43

     Baldwin
     Bennet
     Blumenthal
     Booker
     Brown
     Cantwell
     Cardin
     Casey
     Cortez Masto
     Duckworth
     Durbin
     Feinstein
     Gillibrand
     Harris
     Hassan
     Heinrich
     Hirono
     Kaine
     Klobuchar
     Leahy
     Markey
     McCaskill
     Menendez
     Merkley
     Murphy
     Murray
     Nelson
     Paul
     Peters
     Reed
     Sanders
     Schatz
     Schumer
     Shaheen
     Smith
     Stabenow
     Tester
     Udall
     Van Hollen
     Warner
     Warren
     Whitehouse
     Wyden

                             NOT VOTING--2

     Corker
     McCain
       
  The nomination was confirmed.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, the motion to 
reconsider is considered made and laid upon the table and the President 
will be immediately notified of the Senate's action.

                          ____________________



