

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 4 (Monday, January 8, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 4 (Monday, January 8, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H6-H7]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




MOMENT OF SILENCE COMMEMORATING SEVENTH ANNIVERSARY OF THE SHOOTING IN 
                            TUCSON, ARIZONA

  (Ms. McSALLY asked and was given permission to address the House for 
1 minute and to revise and extend her remarks.)
  Ms. McSALLY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today with my colleagues from 
Arizona to commemorate the seventh anniversary of the shooting that 
took place on January 8, 2011, in Tucson, Arizona.
  Congresswoman Gabby Giffords was meeting with her constituents when a 
gunman opened fire. He killed 6 people and injured 13 more, including 
the Congresswoman.
  Last year, when I led this moment of silence, many people in this 
Chamber could only imagine being the target of a gunman. This year, 
even more Members of Congress have lived that reality. Majority Whip 
Steve Scalise narrowly escaped with his life, thanks to the quick 
action of brave Capitol police.
  Hateful violence against elected officials is not an attack on any 
particular

[[Page H7]]

individual. It is an attack on a party. It is an attack on our 
representative government and the ideals that underpin our democracy.
  I believe our Nation can chart a new course. Where there has been 
division, there can be unity. Where there has been hatred, there can be 
understanding. Where there has been vitriol, there can be civil 
discourse.
  In the aftermath of the 2011 shooting, Tucson united to support the 
grieving, honor the victims, and commend our first responders. Just 
this morning, my hometown dedicated the January 8 Memorial in downtown 
Tucson.
  Tonight, we remember those we lost: Christina-Taylor Green; Dorothy 
Morris; Judge John Roll; Phyllis Schneck; Dorwan Stoddard; and 
congressional staffer, Gabriel ``Gabe'' Zimmerman.
  Mr. Speaker, I would now ask that the House rise and observe a moment 
of silence in remembrance of the victims.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The House will rise for a moment of silence.

                          ____________________



