

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 34 (Monday, February 26, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 34 (Monday, February 26, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1218]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                  TRIBUTE TO WILMA AND WELLINGTON WEBB

 Mr. BENNET. Mr. President, I wish to celebrate the diamond 
jubilee birthdays of the Honorable Wilma and Wellington Webb.
  Wilma and Wellington Webb embody the best of Colorado. Through a long 
and distinguished career, they have made history, improved our 
communities, and set an example of leadership for our State.
  Wilma Webb's life is defined by service to others. Her career began 
as a community organizer registering voters, assisting impoverished 
families, and fighting for equality in education. In 1980, she joined 
the Colorado House of Representatives, where she was reelected for six 
terms and served a total of 13 years. During her tenure, Wilma 
sponsored many substantive bills and became the first African American 
to serve on the powerful joint budget committee, which writes 
Colorado's multibillion dollar annual budget. After 4 years of tireless 
advocacy, she pushed through legislation to recognize Dr. Martin Luther 
King, Jr.'s birthday in Denver through events like the annual 
``Marade.'' President Clinton later appointed her to serve as the 
regional administrator for the U.S. Department of Labor.
  Her husband, Wellington Webb, likewise displays an example of public 
service. Mayor Webb has served in the Colorado House of 
Representatives, the Carter administration, and Colorado's Department 
of Regulatory Agencies. In a historic election in 1991, he became the 
first African-American mayor of Denver. Over two terms, Mayor Webb 
dedicated himself to improving Denver's parks and open spaces, 
strengthening public safety, championing inclusive economic 
development, and expanding access to high-quality education for our 
children. Like his wife, Mayor Webb's leadership has left an indelible 
mark. We see it throughout our city, from the Denver International 
Airport to the expanded Denver Art Museum, the Blair-Caldwell African-
American Research Library, and the many buildings that bear his name.
  As individuals, Wilma and Wellington Webb are exceptional examples of 
public service. Together, they have formed an extraordinarily powerful 
force that has left Denver and Colorado more prosperous, inclusive, and 
just. On this day of celebration, I join Coloradans across our State in 
sharing my deep gratitude and admiration for the legacy they created 
and the years of contributions that lie ahead.

                          ____________________



