

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 30 (Thursday, February 15, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 30 (Thursday, February 15, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H1182]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




RECOGNIZING PENNSBURY SCHOOL DISTRICT FOR THEIR FOCUS ON MENTAL HEALTH 
                                 ISSUES

  (Mr. FITZPATRICK asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the Pennsbury 
School District in Bucks County, Pennsylvania, for their focus on the 
mental health of their students and our community at large and their 
determination to end the drug epidemic. Pennsbury School District 
recently launched an onsite mental health counseling program for their 
high school students and their families in partnership with the 
district's new Addiction and Mental Health Task Force.
  The clinical counseling, in partnership with St. Mary Medical Center 
and Family Service Association of Bucks County, began last month at the 
Pennsbury High School. The district hopes to continue its partnership 
and expand the program to students and families in the elementary and 
middle school communities.
  As the co-chair of the Bipartisan Heroin Task Force, we have worked 
tirelessly, both in Congress and in our communities, to find solutions 
to this devastating epidemic. We are so encouraged by the steps that 
these members of our community are taking to address the issues of 
mental health and addiction.
  We encourage every school district in Bucks County to follow the lead 
of Pennsbury School District in both educating and protecting our 
children, and we also thank the St. Mary Medical Center and Family 
Service Association of Bucks County for partnering with the Pennsbury 
School District in this critical program.

                          ____________________



