

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 35 (Tuesday, February 27, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 35 (Tuesday, February 27, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H1271]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




             ATTACK AT MARJORY STONEMAN DOUGLAS HIGH SCHOOL

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Florida (Mr. Curbelo) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. CURBELO of Florida. Mr. Speaker, the attack at Marjory Stoneman 
Douglas High School on Valentine's Day was an incomprehensible act of 
violence.
  I visited the school on Friday, an experience that was both moving 
and sobering. I walked through the horrifying events that took place 
there, and I witnessed the outpouring of love and support from so many 
who have deposited flowers, candles, and left beautiful messages in 
memory of the victims.
  Upon reflecting on that visit and after meeting with the brave 
student and teacher survivors Sunday in south Florida and yesterday 
here in Washington, I believe the best way for elected officials to 
honor the fallen and their families is by taking meaningful action to 
prevent these tragedies in the future.
  That means working to make sure law enforcement agencies have the 
resources to assess threats and intervene before it is too late. It 
means investing in mental health, reevaluating school security with 
measures like the bipartisan STOP School Violence Act, and securing 
stronger regulations on guns.

  Mr. Speaker, the voices and engagement of the Marjory Stoneman 
Douglas survivors calling for change to our gun safety laws will be 
decisive. We, as a society, must work together to address loopholes and 
vulnerabilities in existing law while still protecting Americans' 
Second Amendment rights.
  From strengthening the NICS system to banning bump stocks and 
preventing those with links to terrorist organizations from acquiring 
firearms, to raising the age for the purchase of long guns to 21, with 
exceptions for those in our military and law enforcement, there are 
commonsense solutions that will not prevent every tragedy but can 
certainly prevent some and mitigate others.
  It won't be easy, but we must make progress on all these fronts. As 
as a father and a husband, I will not accept that, in the greatest 
country in the world, the loss of innocent life becomes commonplace.
  I am calling on congressional leaders in both Chambers and in both 
parties to work together and allow Congress to craft, consider, and 
debate legislation that protects the Second Amendment rights of law-
abiding citizens while making all Americans safer. We have to do 
better, Mr. Speaker. I look forward to working with all my colleagues 
to honor the 17 innocent lives lost in Parkland.

                          ____________________



