

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 5 (Tuesday, January 9, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 5 (Tuesday, January 9, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H65]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    CELEBRATING THE HISTORY OF TEXAS

  (Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute and to revise and extend her remarks.)
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I have often come to this floor to 
remind my colleagues of the devastation that the people of Texas have 
experienced with Hurricane Harvey. I certainly don't intend to ignore 
our other friends in the Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico, Florida, and 
California who have experienced their own devastation, along with 
Louisiana.
  But I am excited today, Mr. Speaker, because I am introducing a bill 
that celebrates the history of Texas. H.R. 4745 is the emancipation 
national historic trail. Many people know that the Emancipation 
Proclamation was not heard in Texas but for 2 years later in 1865.
  This emancipation national historic trail recounts the journey of 
many of those individuals: freed slaves going from the Osterman 
Building and Reedy Chapel in Galveston, Texas; along Texas State 
Highway 3, Interstate Highway 45 North, Freedmen's Town, and 
Emancipation Park in Houston, Texas; following the migration route of 
newly freed slaves and other persons of African descent; from the major 
19th century seaport of Galveston.
  It is a collaboration with people from both parties throughout the 
community. It is one of unity, Mr. Speaker. It is one where we are 
coming together.
  I look forward to passing this legislation with my colleagues--
Republicans and Democrats--because it is a celebration of the history 
of Texas.

                          ____________________



