

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 39 (Tuesday, March 6, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 39 (Tuesday, March 6, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H1382]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




    A MESSAGE TO THE MILITARY RETIREES OF ALABAMA'S SECOND DISTRICT

  (Mrs. ROBY asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend her remarks.)
  Mrs. ROBY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to share the news that I 
recently received that Alabama's Second District has the 13th largest 
population of military retirees in the Nation.
  It goes without saying that this is significant. At the end of last 
year, there were more than 16,000 military retirees living in Alabama's 
Second District.
  But, Mr. Speaker, while I am glad that these retired servicemembers 
chose us, we are truly honored to have them. As their neighbors, it is 
our job to make sure that they feel at home, welcome, and, most of all, 
appreciated.
  Mr. Speaker, to the 16,000 retired military personnel who call 
Alabama's Second District home, I join our State and community in 
thanking them for their service to our country. We thank them for 
sacrificing on our behalf. Now let us care for them. That starts with 
making sure that our veterans are receiving the care that they were 
promised when they signed up to put their lives on the line for this 
Nation.
  If you are a veteran who needs any kind of casework assistance with 
the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Social Security Administration, 
or other Federal agency, please contact my office now. Do not put this 
off. My staff and I work for you. We are grateful for you. As the 
Representative from Alabama's Second District, I am here to fight for 
you.

                          ____________________



