

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 27 (Monday, February 12, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 27 (Monday, February 12, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S869]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

         25TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE GLUCKSMAN IRELAND HOUSE OF NYU

 Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize the 
Glucksman Ireland House of NYU as they celebrate 25 years of dedication 
to the promotion of Irish studies and providing a valuable, vibrant 
center for the appreciation and understanding of Irish and Irish-
American culture and scholarship.
  Established in 1993, the Glucksman Ireland House strives to form 
enriching, comprehensive connections to Irish and Irish-American 
culture for students at New York University and other members of the 
community. The house uses an integrated approach that combines academic 
curricula for undergraduates and graduate students with an impressive 
array of public programming.
  For a quarter of a century, the Glucksman Ireland House has earned 
its status as the hub for one of the world's top-ranked academic Irish 
Studies programs. Boasting a faculty that specializes in Irish and 
Irish-American language, cultural studies, literature, history, and 
music, the house proudly hosts lectures, concerts, and other 
stimulating events, often headed by notable guests with personal 
expertise on a wide range of Irish topics.
  This month, the house will celebrate its milestone anniversary at its 
annual gala, where it will honor Pulitzer Prize-winning poet Paul 
Muldoon and entrepreneur Carl Shanahan. This year's gala focuses on 
Irish-Jewish themes, in a tribute to Loretta Brennan Glucksman and the 
late Lewis L. Glucksman, whose joint vision helped transform the house 
into the lasting institution it is today. Lew strongly believed the 
ethnic and immigrant experience is universal and strongly supported the 
open cultural exchange that occurs so often at the house.
  The Glucksman Ireland House continues to build a distinguished legacy 
as a key forum for discussion and learning, starting relevant 
conversations, and commemorating rich histories. I applaud their 
numerous accomplishments and hope my colleagues will join me in 
congratulating the Glucksman Ireland House of NYU on their 25 years of 
education, awareness, and community.

                          ____________________



