

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 38 (Monday, March 5, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 38 (Monday, March 5, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1325]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




            CONGRATULATING KENTUCKY COLLEGE BASKETBALL TEAMS

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, there is a simple reason nearly every 
Kentuckian looks forward to March--college basketball. I would like to 
take a moment to recognize several teams that are already making the 
State proud by winning their conference tournaments.
  This weekend, the women of the University of Louisville won their 
first-ever ACC tournament title. Finishing the regular season with a 
record of 29 to 2, the Cardinals are currently ranked third in the 
Nation. Led by ACC Coach of the Year Jeff Walz and ACC Player of the 
Year Asia Durr, these talented women are looking to add yet another 
title.
  So are the Murray State Racers. Its men's team won the Ohio Valley 
Conference championship and earned its first NCAA tournament appearance 
since 2012. It will look to build on the longest winning streak in the 
Nation.
  Also in Louisville, the Bellarmine Knights men's team earned its 
second straight conference championship and a two-seed in the NCAA 
Division II tournament.
  At Thomas More College, both the men's and women's teams are 
celebrating conference championships which earned them spots in the 
NCAA Division III tournaments.
  Lindsey Wilson College won its conference title and is headed back to 
the NAIA Division I tournament for the first time since advancing to 
the Fab Four in 2013.
  The Union College men's team clinched its fifth consecutive 
conference title. The Kentucky Christian Lady Knights took home the 
Mideast Region title as well.
  I congratulate all of these conference-winning Kentucky teams, their 
coaches, and, of course, their dedicated fans.

                          ____________________



