

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 34 (Monday, February 26, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 34 (Monday, February 26, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1250-H1251]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  RECOGNIZING THE LEGACY OF GWEN YORK

  (Mr. VEASEY asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.)
  Mr. VEASEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the legacy of Gwen 
York, who dedicated her life to advancing the goals of the Transport 
Workers Union and the Texas AFL-CIO.
  Gwen was born December 27, 1956. Soon after her birthday, she located 
to Garland, which is just outside of Dallas, where she would spend much 
of her life. She graduated from South Garland High School and attended 
the University of Texas at Austin and later went on to join Southwest 
Airlines in 1980. It was a job that she loved dearly and put everything 
into.
  She later returned to school and graduated from the National Labor 
College in 2006. And for the past 10 years, Gwen continued her passion 
for making sure that people could have a good life, particularly those 
at the Transport Workers Union. She was loyal and dedicated. She was 
everybody's advocate and friend.
  I checked my last text to Gwen, and it was trying to get her to 
advocate for me and give me some advice on something. She was just that 
type of person.

[[Page H1251]]

She was always very busy with her work, but she always made time to 
mentor people, especially a lot of the young women who were also part 
of the labor movement.
  Gwen left us far too soon, and it was very tragic in how she did, but 
I want all of her friends and family out there to know just what a big 
impact that she made on this world and for the State of Texas and for 
workers everywhere.
  She is survived by her husband, Mark York; her daughter, Alyson Reed; 
and her sister, Wanda Goode.

                          ____________________



