

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 5 (Tuesday, January 9, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 5 (Tuesday, January 9, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H24-H25]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1030
                      HONORING ISABEL CASTANO-LUGO

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Marshall). The Chair recognizes the 
gentlewoman from Florida (Ms. Ros-Lehtinen) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in recognition of Isabel 
Castano-Lugo, who will turn 112 years young on January 11. Isabel, a 
supercentenarian, is one of only a handful in the Nation who has lived 
through some of the brightest times and darkest chapters in our 
history.
  Born in 1906, in Manizales, Colombia, Isabel was one of 13 brothers 
and sisters. At age 41, Isabel married and had 2 sons, Omar and Danilo 
Lugo. Because of the increasing violence in her home country and the 
kidnapping of her husband, Isabel began a new life with her children in 
the United States in 1970, and, for 26 years, she resided in my 
district in beautiful Miami Beach.
  Throughout her long and distinguished life, Isabel has never ceased 
placing the needs of others before her own. Isabel has served as a 
strong advocate for many important issues and organizations, such as 
the Jewish Community Center of Miami Beach, and has continued to serve 
as a voice for the voiceless to this day.
  Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me in celebrating this 
historic birthday with Isabel, who is the oldest living person in the 
State of Florida.


                    Congratulating Coach Mark Richt

  Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I would like to congratulate Mark 
Richt, head coach of the Miami Hurricanes football team on being named 
the Walter Camp 2017 Coach of the Year and the ACC Coach of the Year.
  In only two seasons at the helm, Coach Richt has created a winning 
environment at my alma mater, the University of Miami. This season, the 
Hurricanes won their first ACC Coastal Division title and ended a 7-
year losing streak against rival Florida State University.
  Coach Richt's success on the field this past year also earned him two 
notable accolades. He is the first Miami Hurricane's coach to be named 
ACC Coach of the Year and only the second UM coach to receive the 
Walter Camp award. Coach Richt is truly a phenomenal leader, and I am 
confident that he will continue to guide UM's football program to 
greater victories in the years to come.
  Once again, ``congratulations,'' ``felicidades,'' to Coach Richt on 
your success this last season, and ``Go Canes.''


                    Congratulating Coach Jim Morris

  Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I would like to congratulate Jim 
Morris on celebrating his 25th and final season as head coach of the 
Miami Hurricanes baseball team. Coach Morris has dedicated his life to 
college baseball. He has won over 1,500 Division 1 games, the fifth 
most in the history of the sport.
  During his tenure, the University of Miami, my alma mater, qualified 
for the College World Series more times than any other baseball program 
throughout the country, and he led the team to two national 
championships. Coach Morris has also been named National Coach of the 
Year three times.
  Coach Morris' outstanding leadership for the past 25 years has left a 
positive and lasting impact on the University of Miami. I am confident 
that this historic legacy will continue to inspire and will continue to 
shape Hurricane baseball in the years to come.
  Once again, ``congratulations,'' ``felicidades,'' to Coach Morris on 
a long and distinguished career.
  ``Go Canes.''

[[Page H25]]

  

                          ____________________



