

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 35 (Tuesday, February 27, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 35 (Tuesday, February 27, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1254]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I have 5 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


                      Committee on Armed Services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, February, 27, 2018, at 9:30 a.m., to 
conduct a hearing.


           Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, February, 27, 
2018, at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing entitled ``The Opioid Crisis: 
The Role of Technology and Data in Preventing and Treating Addiction.''


                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, February, 27, 2018, at 2:30 p.m., to 
conduct a hearing on the following nominations: Kevin Edward Moley, of 
Arizona, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (International 
Organization Affairs), Josephine Olsen, of Maryland, to be Director of 
the Peace Corps, Erik Bethel, of Florida, to be United States Alternate 
Executive Director of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development, and Sean Cairncross, of Minnesota, to be Chief Executive 
Officer, Millennium Challenge Corporation.


                     Committee on Veterans' Affairs

  The Committee on Veterans' Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, February, 27, 2018, at 2 p.m., to 
conduct a joint hearing with the House Committee on Veterans' Affairs.


                    Select Committee on Intelligence

  The Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, February, 27, at 2:30 p.m. to conduct 
a closed hearing.

                          ____________________



