

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 28 (Tuesday, February 13, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 28 (Tuesday, February 13, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S904]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                       TRIBUTE TO KELLY McCUTCHEN

 Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, today I am proud to honor in the 
Record a dedicated Georgian who has devoted his life's work to our 
State.
  Mr. Kelly McCutchen has spent the last 25 years of his career guiding 
the direction of one of Georgia's respected think tanks, the Georgia 
Public Policy Foundation. Most recently, Kelly served as CEO of the 
organization. Prior to taking the helm in 2010, he was the 
organization's vice president, and he remains as a member of its board 
of trustees.
  At the Georgia Public Policy Foundation, Kelly helped create the 
Civic Renewal Project that highlights the work of outstanding 
community-based organizations, the No Excuses program to recognize and 
study high-achieving, high-poverty public schools, and the foundation's 
award-winning statewide report cards on education, crime, and taxes.
  In January 2018, the foundation was named one of the best independent 
think tanks in the 2017 Global Go To Think Tank Index Report. During 
his tenure, the foundation was also named No. 1 for ``highest 
integrity'' and No. 3 for ``most knowledgeable among business 
organizations or State associations in Georgia'' by James magazine in 
2004.
  A proud third-generation high honors graduate of the Georgia 
Institute of Technology in Atlanta, Kelly has also served on the 
Georgia Tech Alumni Association. He is a founder and served as 
governing board chair of Tech High, a math, science, and technology 
focused public charter school in Atlanta.
  At the Georgia Chamber of Commerce, Kelly served on the education 
policy committee and the healthcare policy committee.
  He chaired the board of the Healthcare Institute for Neuro-Recovery 
and Innovation Foundation and has also served on the Georgia Science 
and Technology Executive Committee and on the public policy committee 
for Metro Atlanta United Way. In addition, he is a policy adviser for 
the Technology Association of Georgia.
  His service to our State has also been seen on the boards of 
Leadership Georgia and the Conservative Policy Leadership Institute.
  Of particular significance to me as chairman of the Senate Committee 
on Veterans' Affairs, Kelly cofounded the Georgia Warrior Alliance, a 
nonprofit with the mission to make Georgia the national leader in 
programs supporting military veterans and their families.
  Kelly's wife, Mary Kay Davis McCutchen, has been a dedicated 
companion and chief supporter of his work and civic engagement. Their 
son Kelly and daughter Caroline are college students who have wonderful 
role models to follow in their very special parents.
  Kelly McCutchen is a Georgian whom I am proud to know and to call a 
friend. I applaud his service and wish him the very best as he 
continues his service to our State in his new role as executive 
director of the High Impact Network of Responsible Innovators.

                          ____________________



