

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 17 (Wednesday, January 24, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 17 (Wednesday, January 24, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S505]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I have 6 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


           Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, January 24, 
2018, at 10 a.m., at Walter E. Washington Convention Center to conduct 
a hearing entitled ``Driving Automotive Innovation and Federal 
Policies.''


           Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, January 24, 
2018, at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing entitled ``This is Not a Drill: 
An Examination of the Wireless Emergency Alert System.''


                       Committee on the Judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, January 24, 2018, at 10 a.m. to 
conduct a hearing on the following nominations: Michael B. Brennan, of 
Wisconsin, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Seventh Circuit, 
Daniel Desmond Domenico, to be United States District Judge for the 
District of Colorado, and Adam I. Klein, of the District of Columbia, 
to be Chairman and Member of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight 
Board.


                       Special Committee on Aging

  The Special Committee on Aging is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, January 24, 2018, at 9:30 a.m., to 
conduct a hearing entitled ``Turning 65: Navigating Critical Decisions 
to Age Well.''


                    Subcommittee on Strategic Forces

  The Subcommittee on Strategic Forces of the Committee on Armed 
Services is authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on 
Wednesday, January 24, 2018, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a closed hearing.


                       Subcommittee on Personnel

  The Subcommittee on Personnel of the Committee on Armed Services is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, 
January 24, 2018, at 3 p.m., to conduct a hearing.

                          ____________________



