

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 30 (Thursday, February 15, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 30 (Thursday, February 15, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1161]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        TRIBUTE TO ROBERT BADAL

 Ms. HEITKAMP. Mr. President, I wish to congratulate President 
Robert Badal of the University of Jamestown, formerly known as 
Jamestown College, in Jamestown, ND, on his outstanding tenure. Since 
2002, Dr. Badal's leadership has brought strengthened academic 
programs, increased enrollment, greater financial strength, and 
significant expansion and renovation of the campus. These efforts and 
new offerings of graduate programs led to the change of status from 
college to university under Dr. Badal, who will be retiring on February 
28, 2018.
  In addition to jumpstarting graduate programs, Dr. Badal has also 
more than doubled the endowment of the university and expanded academic 
offerings and extracurricular offering, and it currently celebrates a 
multi-year high enrollment of 1,136 students. Additionally, the 
university has reached to other parts of North Dakota by establishing a 
campus in Fargo with three graduate programs. To quote Dr. Badal, he 
has taken ``a small, but historic institution to a higher level.''
  The University of Jamestown was truly fortunate to have a president 
whose unwavering passion and dedication to student success led to 
extraordinary growth and advancement. While his departure marks a new 
era for the university, he has left it in a very strong position for 
the future and for his successor. I thank Dr. Badal for his time and 
leadership at the University of Jamestown and wish him a very enjoyable 
retirement.

                          ____________________



