

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 11 (Thursday, January 18, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 11 (Thursday, January 18, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S298]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                TRIBUTE TO CURTIS AND MARLYS SCHWADERER

 Mr. DAINES. Madam President, today I have the distinct honor 
of recognizing Curtis and Marlys Schwaderer for their many years of 
service to the community of Superior, MT, as owners of Mineral 
Pharmacy. For decades, Mineral Pharmacy has been a cornerstone business 
in the community, providing vital services for its people.
  A graduate of the pharmacy school at the University of Montana, 
Curtis purchased the pharmacy 27 years ago. Together, he and his wife, 
Marlys, ran the business and raised two sons in the community. As 
Superior has struggled with the decline of the timber industry with 
rising unemployment and falling incomes, the Schwaderers and their 
business have been a constant and stabilizing presence, a beacon of 
certainty in uncertain times.
  In November, after 43 years as pharmacist and 27 years at Mineral 
Pharmacy, Curtis retired, and he and Marlys announced they were selling 
the business. Under new ownership, the pharmacy continues to serve the 
community of Superior, and the Schwaderers themselves remain members of 
the community. The Schwaderers and Mineral Pharmacy are an excellent 
example of what committed community members and a business can mean to 
a small town. Every day, in small towns across Montana, you will find 
hard-working people like the Schwaderers and small businesses like 
Mineral Pharmacy working hard to keep our communities strong. They are 
truly the lifeblood of our State.
  Thank you, Curtis and Marlys, for your many years of hard work and 
service to your community. I wish you all the best in your next 
chapter.

                          ____________________



