

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 10 (Wednesday, January 17, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 10 (Wednesday, January 17, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H417-H418]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




      UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA 2018 NCAA FOOTBALL NATIONAL CHAMPIONS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
Alabama (Ms. Sewell) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the 
University of Alabama Crimson Tide on their NCAA Football National 
Championship win against the University of Georgia Bulldogs.
  In a historic comeback, the Crimson Tide overcame a 13-0 deficit to 
win the game in overtime and to return the title to Tuscaloosa. With 
this year's victory, the University of Alabama wins its 17th national 
title, by far the most of any school in the modern era of football.
  This is head coach Nick Saban's fifth championship win in just nine 
seasons.

[[Page H418]]

Mr. Speaker, no other school has won, even, any more than three 
national championships in any 10-year period.
  This year's victory is an extraordinary record which further cements 
Coach Saban's status as one of the greatest college football coaches of 
all times.
  Likewise, I want to congratulate the players. As Coach Saban said, 
this was a true team victory. From running backs Bo Scarbrough and 
Damien Harris to wide receivers Calvin Ridley and Devonta Smith to 
defensive powerhouses Minkah Fitzpatrick and Raekwon Davis to true 
freshman quarterback Tua Tagovailoa, every player stepped up to the 
challenge and demonstrated resilience and grit for all four quarters 
and into overtime.
  I also want to recognize quarterback Jalen Hurts. While he did not 
finish the game, Jalen led the Tide all the way to the national 
championships twice, with an impressive 25-2 record in his two seasons. 
Thank you to Jalen for his leadership and his gracious sportsmanship 
and being such a good sport throughout the whole game.
  Finally, I want to commend the Georgia Bulldogs on a fantastic season 
and a hard-fought championship game. Coach Kerby Smart and the Dogs 
were a worthy opponent, and I know that they will give us a run for our 
title next season.
  My friend Representative Jody Hice, who represents the University of 
Georgia, made a friendly bet with me before the game, and he will honor 
his wager this week. On Thursday, he will join me on the Capitol steps 
wearing a Bear Bryant houndstooth hat, as well as an Alabama tie, to 
commemorate and celebrate Alabama's victory.
  He will also serve Georgia barbecue to my staff for lunch. I thank 
Jody for being such a good sport.
  In closing, I want to again congratulate the University of Alabama 
Crimson Tide on their 17th national football title. What a game. And as 
we say in Alabama: Roll Tide.

                          ____________________



