

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 10 (Wednesday, January 17, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 10 (Wednesday, January 17, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H415-H416]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               COMMEMORATING NATIONAL SCHOOL CHOICE WEEK

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
North Carolina (Ms. Foxx) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, each year we commemorate National School 
Choice Week to celebrate a family's right to select the best school for 
their children. This year we are starting the celebration on January 
21.
  Americans like to have options, and when it comes to options in 
postsecondary education, there are more opportunities than ever. School 
choice is

[[Page H416]]

also about bringing those options to America's children in elementary 
and secondary schools.
  One of the best examples of options is the expansion of school 
choice. In the expansion of school choice is the growth of charter 
schools. Over the last 12 years, public charter school enrollment has 
tripled, and America now has 3 million students attending these 
schools.
  Along with the growing demand for charter schools, homeschooling and 
private school choice programs are increasing. There are 2.3 million 
students being homeschooled, and enrollment in private school choice 
programs has increased more than 100 percent.
  Making school choice available to more families should be a priority 
for all of us. It is clear that parents are looking for options, and we 
want opportunity for them to be open to everyone.


                      Honoring Crystal Winebarger

  Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, today I rise to wish Crystal Winebarger of the 
Fifth District a very peaceful and happy retirement. For the last 16 
years, Ms. Winebarger selflessly served as the Hunger and Health 
Coalition director of operations located in Watauga County, North 
Carolina. The Hunger and Health Coalition's mission is to lift up the 
community by providing resources such as food, medications, and heat in 
the winter to those in need.
  Crystal worked with members in the faith community and local churches 
to ensure the well-being of many individuals and families. It is my 
belief that North Carolina will benefit from her tireless efforts for 
years to come.
  A lasting legacy of service is something that is becoming all too 
rare in our neighborhoods today. I will remain forever grateful to Ms. 
Winebarger for her service to our community. I wish her a happy 
retirement.

                          ____________________



