

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 50 (Thursday, March 22, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 50 (Thursday, March 22, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1931-S1932]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent the Senate 
proceed to the consideration of the following nomination: Executive 
Calendar No. 722.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The clerk will report the nomination.
  The bill clerk read the nomination of Brent K. Park, of Tennessee, to 
be Deputy Administrator for Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation, National 
Nuclear Security Administration.
  Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to consider the nomination.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the 
Senate vote on the nomination with no intervening action or debate; 
that if confirmed, the motion to reconsider be considered made and laid 
upon the table; that the President be immediately notified of the 
Senate's action; that no further motions be in order; and that any 
statements relating to the nomination be printed in the Record.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The question is, Will the Senate advise and consent to the Park 
nomination?
  The nomination was confirmed.


                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the 
Senate proceed to the en bloc consideration of the following 
nominations: Executive Calendar Nos. 723 and 725.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

[[Page S1932]]

  Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to consider the nominations en bloc.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the 
Senate vote on the nominations en bloc with no intervening action or 
debate; that if confirmed, the motions to reconsider be considered made 
and laid upon the table en bloc; that the President be immediately 
notified of the Senate's action; that no further motions be in order; 
and that any statements relating to the nominations be printed in the 
Record.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The question is, Will the Senate advise and consent to the 
nominations of James Edwin Williams, of Utah, to be Chief Financial 
Officer, Department of Labor; and Mark Schneider, of the District of 
Columbia, to be Director of the Institute of Education Science, 
Department of Education for a term of six years?
  The nominations were confirmed en bloc.

                          ____________________



