

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 22 (Monday, February 5, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 22 (Monday, February 5, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S601]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                               TAX REFORM

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, on one final matter, in the State of 
the Union Address last week, President Trump detailed signs that our 
Nation's economy is thriving under the policies of his administration 
and this Republican Congress. Evidence keeps piling up that good things 
happen when the government takes its foot off the brake and gets out of 
the way of American workers and job creators.
  Last week, UPS, the largest private employer in my hometown of 
Louisville, KY, announced that tax reform will enable them to invest 
$12 billion in expanding their smart logistics network, funding 
employee pensions, and other capital improvements.
  Their chairman and CEO had this to say:

       We applaud President Trump and Congress for their bold 
     action. . . . Tax reform is a tremendous catalyst.

  On Thursday, another major American employer, Lowe's, announced that 
it will give bonuses of up to $1,000 to more than a quarter of a 
million hourly employees and expand family friendly employment 
benefits, like adoption assistance and paid parental leave.
  The very same day, the major pharmaceutical company Amgen, which 
houses a distribution facility in Louisville, announced that tax reform 
is causing them to shift more of their planned investments here to the 
United States, including the construction of a new ``next-generation 
manufacturing plant'' right here at home.
  Already, our historic tax reform law is giving employers the 
flexibility to invest more, expand more, hire more American workers, 
and give bonuses, pay raises, and new benefits to their employees, and, 
already, middle-class families across the country are seeing the 
benefits.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. JOHNSON. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Moran). Without objection, it is so 
ordered.

                          ____________________



