

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 4 (Monday, January 8, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 4 (Monday, January 8, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S64-S65]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                 MACOMB COUNTY, MICHIGAN, BICENTENNIAL

 Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, I am proud to pay special tribute 
today to the people of Macomb County, MI, who are celebrating their 
county's bicentennial this year.
  The people of Macomb County symbolize the history, sacrifices, and 
character of people all across our country who have helped create the 
American middle class. They represent America's diverse history of 
immigrants coming to this country to find the American dream. When it 
comes to hard work, the people of Macomb County are second to none. The 
county's rich history has created a resilient people who put family, 
faith, and community first in their lives.
  Macomb County was founded on January 15, 1818. Located on the shores 
of Lake St. Clair, the county is named in honor of General Alexander 
Macomb, a veteran of the War of 1812. The county was the third county 
founded in Michigan and, today, is Michigan's third most populous 
county.
  Macomb County is known for its innovation and impressive 
manufacturing might. It is a backbone of the American automotive 
industry. Fiat

[[Page S65]]

Chrysler, Ford Motor, and General Motors employ more than 35,000 people 
and operate 10 facilities in Macomb County. There are more than 1,600 
manufacturers in Macomb County employing more than 69,000 individuals. 
I am so proud to represent these hard-working Michigan workers.
  The county is also an important defense hub for both Michigan and the 
United States. It is home to Selfridge Air National Guard Base, which 
was established in 1917 and, today, is home to operations of all 
branches of the U.S. military, as well as several Department of 
Homeland Security agencies. In the 10 years immediately following 
September 11, 2001, approximately 3,816 Michigan Air National Guard 
airmen from Selfridge deployed to locations around the world. Macomb 
County is also home to the Detroit Arsenal, the first ever mass-
production tank plant in the United States and a vital part of our 
Nation's ``Arsenal of Democracy'' during World War II. The Detroit 
Arsenal now hosts the headquarters of the U.S. Army Tank Automotive 
Research, Development and Engineering Center, called TARDEC, and the 
U.S. Army Tank-automotive and Armaments Command, or TACOM, Life Cycle 
Management Command.
  Numerous events and celebrations are planned in the county throughout 
this year to mark this special historical milestone. Congratulations to 
the people of Macomb County on 200 years of distinguished history. We 
all look forward to many years of prosperity and success in the years 
ahead.

                          ____________________



