

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 47 (Monday, March 19, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 47 (Monday, March 19, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1682-H1683]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1930
                CALLING FOR JUDICIARY COMMITTEE HEARINGS

  (Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute.)
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, so many of us, when we go home, get the 
question of what is going on in Washington and why this behavior 
continues.
  I think it is important for the American people to know that we have 
the responsibility of oversight. And I believe, as a senior member on 
the Judiciary Committee, that we need to address the question of the 
firing of Andrew McCabe. We understand there may be a report, the IG 
report. I don't challenge it, but it has not been rendered or made 
public. The precipitous and heinous, unfair firing, in the manner that 
it was done--I think that our Nation is better than that. I believe it 
is important for the Judiciary Committee to hold hearings.
  And we should also hold hearings on the Cambridge situation. As a 
member of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Protection Subcommittee 
for Homeland Security, Judiciary should hold and find out why the 
private information of millions of Americans through Facebook has been 
utilized to skew the election of 2016. No, I am not complaining, Mr. 
Speaker, about the results. What I am saying: The American people are 
owed a fair and just election, and the responsible people are the 
Members of the United States Congress to determine how their private 
information has been skewed and used and

[[Page H1683]]

is still being used without their permission.
  It is time for us to exercise our oversight, Mr. Speaker. Let's do it 
now.

                          ____________________



