

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 46 (Thursday, March 15, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 46 (Thursday, March 15, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1763]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        TRIBUTE TO MARK PETERSON

  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I want to join with Members of Congress 
and congressional staff in celebrating Mark Peterson's 30 years of 
service and retirement from the town of Normal. Mark has honorably 
served the people of Normal, IL, since 1988 and as its city manager 
since 1998.
  He has served on the governing boards for a variety of public and 
community organizations, including the MetCom Emergency Communications 
Center, the Bloomington-Normal Economic Development Council, the 
Central Illinois Regional Broadband Network, the McLean County Regional 
Planning Commission Executive Committee, the Community Development 
Corporation, the BN Advantage Leadership Council, and Connect Transit.
  Mark was instrumental in the planning and successful redevelopment of 
Uptown Normal, including the Children's Discovery Museum, as well as 
Uptown Station and its new rail platform, waiting area, bus bays, and 
related development at the Marriott Hotel and Conference Center and the 
Hyatt Place Bloomington-Normal Hotel.
  Under the administration of Mark Peterson, the Shoppes at College 
Hills grew into a thriving modern retail center. The Constitution Trail 
also grew to nearly 50 miles of recreational trail through the cities 
of Normal and Bloomington, providing the community with an outstanding 
linear park.
  Mark oversaw a period of tremendous growth in the town of Normal, 
while maintaining an AAA bond rating and serving as independent 
confirmation of the town's fiscal health and stability. He also 
cultivated fruitful partnerships with members of the Illinois 
congressional delegation, but most importantly, Mark has been a loyal 
leader and community servant for the residents of Normal and will 
continue to be an admired citizen of the community.
  Mark's commitment to the town of Normal can be seen in every corner 
of the city, and that work will not be forgotten.

                          ____________________



