

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 45 (Wednesday, March 14, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 45 (Wednesday, March 14, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H1549]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1030
                            ENOUGH IS ENOUGH

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
Florida (Ms. Frankel) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. FRANKEL of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I join with millions of 
Americans and the students who are walking out today and who are saying 
enough is enough for the gun violence in America.
  Seventeen families in Parkland, Florida, are living a nightmare, and 
our hearts ache for them and the Parkland community. They join a 
growing club of grieving families all over this Nation because their 
loved ones were massacred in a place we expected to be safe: a concert 
in Nevada, a nightclub in Florida, a college in Virginia, an elementary 
school in Connecticut, a church in Texas, a McDonald's in California. 
The list goes on.
  Last year there were 346 mass shootings in this country, making it 
the deadliest year of mass killings in a decade. Ninety Americans a day 
are killed by gun violence. These are not just statistics. Ninety 
Americans a day means 33,000 grieving families, heartbroken families 
who lose a child, a parent, in a click of a trigger.
  We have had enough thoughts and prayers for grieving parents and 
enough thanks for the first responders that answer the call. The time 
now is for action.
  I want to especially thank the young people in south Florida and now 
across the Nation for their courage, their passion, and persistence.
  Students today are demanding we do more than shed a tear and wring 
our hands saying it is too complicated. Students are walking out today 
because they know there are too many guns in the hands of the wrong 
people; too many guns on the street that are made for war, not for 
civil society. They know that is why we should ban the sale of assault 
rifles and high-capacity magazines and bump stock devices, expand our 
background check laws, and reinstate Federal funding for gun research. 
There is not just one solution, but it is not so complicated that we do 
nothing.
  So today I am going to join America's students and I will be walking 
out because Americans deserve a better deal, and because enough is 
enough.

                          ____________________



