

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 23 (Tuesday, February 6, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 23 (Tuesday, February 6, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S655-S656]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           TEXT OF AMENDMENTS

  SA 1922. Mr. McCONNELL proposed an amendment to the bill H.R. 695, to 
amend the National Child Protection Act of 1993 to establish a 
voluntary national criminal history background check system and 
criminal history review program for certain individuals who, related to 
their employment, have access to children, the elderly, or individuals 
with disabilities, and for other purposes; as follows:


[[Page S656]]


  

       At the end add the following.
       ``This Act shall take effect 1 day after the date of 
     enactment.''
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1923. Mr. McCONNELL proposed an amendment to amendment SA 1922 
proposed by Mr. McConnell to the bill H.R. 695, to amend the National 
Child Protection Act of 1993 to establish a voluntary national criminal 
history background check system and criminal history review program for 
certain individuals who, related to their employment, have access to 
children, the elderly, or individuals with disabilities, and for other 
purposes; as follows:

       Strike ``1 day'' and insert ``2 days''
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1924. Mr. McCONNELL proposed an amendment to amendment SA 1923 
proposed by Mr. McConnell to the amendment SA 1922 proposed by Mr. 
McConnell to the bill H.R. 695, to amend the National Child Protection 
Act of 1993 to establish a voluntary national criminal history 
background check system and criminal history review program for certain 
individuals who, related to their employment, have access to children, 
the elderly, or individuals with disabilities, and for other purposes; 
as follows:

       Strike ``2'' and insert ``3''
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1925. Mr. HELLER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 695, to amend the National Child Protection Act of 
1993 to establish a voluntary national criminal history background 
check system and criminal history review program for certain 
individuals who, related to their employment, have access to children, 
the elderly, or individuals with disabilities, and for other purposes; 
which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

                      TITLE __--NO BUDGET, NO PAY

     SEC. ___01. SHORT TITLE.

       This title may be cited as the ``No Budget, No Pay Act''.

     SEC. ___02. DEFINITION.

       In this title, the term ``Member of Congress''--
       (1) has the meaning given the term under section 2106 of 
     title 5, United States Code; and
       (2) does not include the Vice President.

     SEC. ___03. TIMELY APPROVAL OF CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE 
                   BUDGET AND THE APPROPRIATIONS BILLS.

       If both Houses of Congress have not approved a concurrent 
     resolution on the budget as described under section 301 of 
     the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974 
     (2 U.S.C. 632) for a fiscal year before October 1 of that 
     fiscal year and have not passed all the regular 
     appropriations bills for the next fiscal year before October 
     1 of that fiscal year, the pay of each Member of Congress may 
     not be paid for each day following that October 1 until the 
     date on which both Houses of Congress approve a concurrent 
     resolution on the budget for that fiscal year and all the 
     regular appropriations bills.

     SEC. ___04. NO PAY WITHOUT CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE 
                   BUDGET AND THE APPROPRIATIONS BILLS.

       (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
     law, no funds may be appropriated or otherwise made available 
     from the United States Treasury for the pay of any Member of 
     Congress during any period determined by the Chairpersons of 
     the Committee on the Budget and the Committee on 
     Appropriations of the Senate or the Chairpersons of the 
     Committee on the Budget and the Committee on Appropriations 
     of the House of Representatives under section ___05.
       (b) No Retroactive Pay.--A Member of Congress may not 
     receive pay for any period determined by the Chairpersons of 
     the Committee on the Budget and the Committee on 
     Appropriations of the Senate or the Chairpersons of the 
     Committee on the Budget and the Committee on Appropriations 
     of the House of Representatives under section ___05, at any 
     time after the end of that period.

     SEC. ___05. DETERMINATIONS.

       (a) Senate.--
       (1) Request for certifications.--On October 1 of each year, 
     the Secretary of the Senate shall submit a request to the 
     Chairpersons of the Committee on the Budget and the Committee 
     on Appropriations of the Senate for certification of 
     determinations made under subparagraphs (A) and (B) of 
     paragraph (2).
       (2) Determinations.--The Chairpersons of the Committee on 
     the Budget and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate 
     shall--
       (A) on October 1 of each year, make a determination of 
     whether Congress is in compliance with section ___03 and 
     whether Senators may not be paid under that section;
       (B) determine the period of days following each October 1 
     that Senators may not be paid under section ___03; and
       (C) provide timely certification of the determinations 
     under subparagraphs (A) and (B) upon the request of the 
     Secretary of the Senate.
       (b) House of Representatives.--
       (1) Request for certifications.--On October 1 of each year, 
     the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of 
     Representatives shall submit a request to the Chairpersons of 
     the Committee on the Budget and the Committee on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives for 
     certification of determinations made under subparagraphs (A) 
     and (B) of paragraph (2).
       (2) Determinations.--The Chairpersons of the Committee on 
     the Budget and the Committee on Appropriations of the House 
     of Representatives shall--
       (A) on October 1 of each year, make a determination of 
     whether Congress is in compliance with section ___03 and 
     whether Members of the House of Representatives may not be 
     paid under that section;
       (B) determine the period of days following each October 1 
     that Members of the House of Representatives may not be paid 
     under section ___03; and
       (C) provide timely certification of the determinations 
     under subparagraphs (A) and (B) upon the request of the Chief 
     Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives.

     SEC. ___06. EFFECTIVE DATE.

       This title shall take effect on February 1, 2019.

                          ____________________



