

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 56 (Monday, April 9, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 56 (Monday, April 9, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S2011]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




     50TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE RBC HERITAGE PRESENTED BY BOEING GOLF 
                               TOURNAMENT

 Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, each year Hilton Head Island in 
South Carolina is proud to host the RBC Heritage Presented by Boeing 
Golf Tournament at the Harbour Town Golf Links at the Sea Pines Resort. 
With Harbour Town's red and white striped lighthouse as a backdrop, a 
world-class golf tournament is held annually the week after the 
Masters. Our tournament champions have included a notable number of 
Hall of Fame golfers: Arnold Palmer, Jack Nicklaus, Nick Faldo, Hale 
Irwin, Bernhard Langer, Johnny Miller, Greg Norman, Nick Price, Tom 
Watson, and Payne Stewart.
  More than 1,200 volunteers staff the tournament during the week. 
Their work is felt and seen by the more than a hundred thousand people 
who attend the tournament every year and the millions more who watch 
the tournament broadcast in 226 countries. Last year, the tournament 
infused over $96 million into the State of South Carolina's economy.
  Even more notable than the golf is the impact the Heritage Classic 
Foundation has on the local communities in South Carolina and Georgia. 
Since 1987, $38 million has been distributed to those in need in these 
two States. Since 1993, 322 high school seniors have received more than 
$4.1 million for 4-year college scholarships. This fall, 34 Beaufort 
County collegians will receive foundation grants at an expenditure of 
$159,000.
  Last year, the foundation helped facilitate more than $2.9 million in 
donations. The Heritage Champions Fore Charity has produced more than 
$7.2 million for participating nonprofit groups. Last year, the Birdies 
for Charity program distributed $216,000 in pledge donations, bringing 
the total to $5.7 million since it was created in 2000. The nonprofit 
groups that staff the tournament concession stands made $247,706 for 
their charities in 2017.
  On behalf of all South Carolinians, I want to express my deep 
appreciation and congratulations to the RBC Heritage Presented by 
Boeing Golf Tournament on the occasion of its 50th anniversary and wish 
them another successful tournament this week.

                          ____________________



