

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 40 (Wednesday, March 7, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 40 (Wednesday, March 7, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H1447]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              RECOGNIZING LIEUTENANT JAMES A. MAZZUCHELLI

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Florida (Mr. Yoho) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor Lieutenant James A. 
Mazzuchelli of Orange Park, Florida, a naval flight surgeon who passed 
away on February 24 as the result of a tragic accident that occurred 
while he was on duty.
  Lieutenant Mazzuchelli graduated from Clay High School in 2003, where 
he served in the Naval JROTC program. Upon graduation, he received a 
full scholarship to Drexel University in Pennsylvania, where he studied 
commerce and engineering.
  After graduation from Drexel, he decided to follow in his parents' 
footsteps and join the Navy. He did so while attending medical school 
at Lake Erie College of Osteopathic Medicine, and received his naval 
officer's commission while finishing his studies.
  Lieutenant Mazzuchelli served as a flight surgeon with the Marine 
Light Attack Helicopter Squadron 267 stationed out of Camp Pendleton, 
California, and was deployed to Japan as part of the Marines' Unit 
Deployment Program in 2016.
  Over his 7 years of service, Lieutenant Mazzuchelli provided 
exemplary medical care to the brave men and women who protect America. 
In fact, 2 weeks before his death, he completed his aircrew syllabus 
and received his aerial observer/aircrew wings, making him one of the 
very few naval doctors to have them.
  He is survived by his parents and stepparents, as well as two 
sisters. I know his family, his community, and his squadron will miss 
him dearly.
  Hailed by his fellow soldiers for his enthusiasm and dedication, 
Lieutenant Mazzuchelli's example of leadership through service will 
continue to inspire others.
  We as a nation thank James and his family for his dedication and 
service to our great Nation. He will be missed, but not forgotten.

                          ____________________



