

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 11 (Thursday, January 18, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 11 (Thursday, January 18, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S302-S303]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           TEXT OF AMENDMENTS

  SA 1903. Mr. McCONNELL proposed an amendment to the bill H.R. 195, to 
amend title 44, United States Code, to restrict the distribution of 
free printed copies of the Federal Register to Members of Congress and 
other officers and employees of the United States, and for other 
purposes; as follows:

       At the end add the following.
       ``This Act shall take effect 1 day after the date of 
     enactment.''
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1904. Mr. McCONNELL proposed an amendment to amendment SA 1903 
proposed by Mr. McConnell to the bill H.R. 195, to amend title 44, 
United States Code, to restrict the distribution of free printed copies 
of the Federal Register to Members of Congress and other officers and 
employees of the United States, and for other purposes; as follows:

       Strike ``1 day'' and insert ``2 days''
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1905. Mr. McCONNELL proposed an amendment to the bill H.R. 195, to 
amend title 44, United States Code, to restrict the distribution of 
free printed copies of the Federal Register to Members of Congress and 
other officers and employees of the United States, and for other 
purposes; as follows:

       At the end add the following.
       ``This Act shall take effect 3 days after the date of 
     enactment.''
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1906. Mr. McCONNELL proposed an amendment to amendment SA 1905 
proposed by Mr. McConnell to the bill H.R. 195, to amend title 44, 
United States Code, to restrict the distribution of free printed copies 
of the Federal Register to Members of Congress and other officers and 
employees of the United States, and for other purposes; as follows:

       Strike ``3 days'' and insert ``4 days''
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 1907. Mr. McCONNELL proposed an amendment to amendment SA 1906 
proposed by Mr. McConnell to the

[[Page S303]]

amendment SA 1905 proposed by Mr. McConnell to the bill H.R. 195, to 
amend title 44, United States Code, to restrict the distribution of 
free printed copies of the Federal Register to Members of Congress and 
other officers and employees of the United States, and for other 
purposes; as follows:

       Strike ``4'' and insert ``5''

                          ____________________



