

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 45 (Wednesday, March 14, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 45 (Wednesday, March 14, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H1553]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          SCHOOL SHOOTING BILL

  (Ms. GABBARD asked and was given permission to address the House for 
1 minute.)
  Ms. GABBARD. Mr. Speaker, it has been 1 month since the tragic 
shooting in Parkland, and today students in Hawaii and all across the 
country are joining hands and raising their voices to honor the 17 
lives lost on that day and the 7,000 children whose lives have been 
lost since the 2012 shooting at Sandy Hook. They are walking out today 
to demand action that will help to prevent these horrific tragedies and 
improve the safety and security of our schools.
  Later today, we are going to be voting on a bill that I have 
cosponsored, the STOP School Violence Act. This bill or any other 
single bill is not going to solve everything, but it will help prevent 
school violence by implementing measures developed after Sandy Hook 
that support training for teachers, students, school personnel, and 
local law enforcement to better identify early warning signs of 
violence and increase coordination between schools and local law 
enforcement.
  In addition, we also need to take action on things like closing the 
gun show and online loopholes and requiring universal background checks 
for anyone seeking to purchase a gun. These are provisions that have 
overwhelming bipartisan support both here in Congress and across the 
country.
  The time for action is long overdue. Let's bring these bills to the 
floor for a vote.

                          ____________________



