

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 27 (Monday, February 12, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 27 (Monday, February 12, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S868-S869]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   150TH ANNIVERSARY OF AUBURN, MAINE

  Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, today I wish to commemorate the 150th 
anniversary of the city of Auburn, ME. Auburn was built with a spirit 
of determination and resiliency that still guides the community today, 
and this is a time to celebrate the generations of hard-working and 
caring people who have made it such a wonderful place to live, work, 
and raise families.
  Auburn was first settled in 1786 and incorporated as a town in 1842. 
The

[[Page S869]]

name was inspired by a popular poem by Oliver Goldsmith that begins 
with this line: ``Sweet Auburn! Loveliest village of the plain.''
  With the mighty Androscoggin River providing power, Auburn soon was 
home to many lumber, grain, and textile mills. When the factory system 
of shoe manufacturing was developed there, the people of Auburn formed 
a skilled and dedicated workforce that built a great Maine industry. 
The factories attracted many French-Canadian immigrants, whose culture 
continues to enliven the city. The prosperity produced by hard work and 
determination was invested in schools and churches to create a true 
community.
  On February 12, 1868, the fast-growing community incorporated as the 
city of Auburn. Together with Lewiston across the Androscoggin River, 
an economic powerhouse was created and the cities of the Androscoggin 
today form Maine's second most populated municipal region.
  The decline of traditional industries in the 20th century posed a 
great challenge. Auburn's response is described in words etched into 
the walls of Auburn Hall, a Latin phrase that translates to ``No Steps 
Backward.'' Auburn is a community that was built by the power of a 
great river. Now, the power of community is building a new future on 
that river with new economic opportunities, wonderful food, vibrant 
arts and entertainment, and exciting recreation. Auburn cherishes its 
history as it continues to move forward.
  Auburn is a city of compassionate, involved people. It is home to the 
Good Shepherd Food Bank, the largest hunger relief organization in 
Maine. The Auburn Police Activities League, which provides educational 
and athletic opportunities to children and teens after school and 
during the summer, is an outstanding example of public officials and 
committed citizens joining together to change lives today to create the 
leaders of tomorrow. It is the hometown of a role model for all 
leaders, former Senator Olympia Snowe. The energy and planning that are 
going into Auburn's 150th anniversary celebration demonstrate the pride 
residents have in their city.
  The celebration of the city of Auburn's 150th anniversary is not 
merely about the passing of time. It is about human accomplishment. We 
celebrate the people who, from the dawn of our Nation to our time, have 
pulled together, cared for one another, and built a great community. 
Thanks to those who came before, Auburn, ME, has a wonderful history. 
Thanks to those there today, it has a bright future.

                          ____________________



