

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 34 (Monday, February 26, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 34 (Monday, February 26, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1218-S1219]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       TRIBUTE TO DONALD GUIMOND

 Mr. KING. Mr. President, today I wish to honor and recognize 
Donald Guimond who is resigning as the town manager for the town of 
Fort Kent, ME. Don is a remarkable public servant, mentor, and 
individual who has truly led by example. His inclusive leadership style 
has cultivated a community that is now the envy of many communities 
throughout the State of Maine. Located in Aroostook County--the Crown 
of Maine--Fort Kent is known for being the northern boundary of Route 
One, for the generosity of its citizens, and for the ability to make 
seemingly insurmountable projects happen.
  During his 24-year tenure as town manager, Don was at the heart of 
all of the significant projects that have maintained and continue to 
shape the town. Staying true to his philosophy that ``taxpayers of our 
community [stay] at the forefront decisions,'' he has included the 
voices of community members in his decisions. In the same vein, he was 
present for every project, regardless of its scope.
  Don has provided invaluable advice and leadership to development 
groups, the Greater Fort Kent Chamber of Commerce and many other boards 
and organizations. He has also participated in numerous international 
events from outdoor, volunteer-driven events like World Cup Biathlons 
and the Can Am Crown sled dog races, to cultural events like the 2014 
World Acadian Congress. During the flood of 2008, Don was everywhere, 
making sure that townsfolks were taken care of, using his skills to 
assist government agencies, nonprofit organizations, and others to make 
sure that people's needs were being met. His efforts during that 
tumultuous time were praised by local and State leaders.
  Don has mentored many leaders within Aroostook County, imparting to 
them his understanding of how a municipality functions best. If we 
could all channel our inner Don Guimond, governing would be a little 
easier. I join the State of Maine, his family, colleagues, and 
employees in thanking Don for his outstanding service and the 
instrumental impact he has made on Fort Kent and Aroostook County. In 
showing the way to make a community and a region better by action, he 
has made many contributions to the State

[[Page S1219]]

of Maine, and I am certain he will find a way to continue to do 
that.

                          ____________________



