

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 30 (Thursday, February 15, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 30 (Thursday, February 15, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1189]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I have 6 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


           Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry

  The Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, February 15, 
2018, at 9:30 a.m., to conduct a hearing.


                      Committee on Armed Services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, February 15, 2018, at 9:30 a.m., to 
conduct a hearing.


                          Committee on Finance

  The Committee on Finance is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Thursday, February 15, 2018, at 9 a.m., to conduct a 
hearing entitled ``The President's Fiscal Year 2019 Budget.''


                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, February 15, 2018, at 10 a.m., to 
conduct a hearing on the following nominations: Andrea L. Thompson, of 
South Dakota, to be Under Secretary for Arms Control and International 
Security, Susan A. Thornton, of Maine, to be an Assistant Secretary 
(East Asian and Pacific Affairs), and Francis R. Fannon, of Virginia, 
to be an Assistant Secretary (Energy Resources), all of Department of 
State.


                       Committee on the Judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, February 14, at 10 a.m. to conduct 
a hearing on S. 1917 and the following nominations: Michael B. Brennan, 
of Wisconsin, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Seventh 
Circuit, Susan Paradise Baxter, and Marilyn Jean Horan, both to be a 
United States District Judge for the Western District of Pennsylvania, 
Daniel Desmond Domenico, to be United States District Judge for the 
District of Colorado, Adam I. Klein, of the District of Columbia, to be 
Chairman and Member of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board, 
McGregor W. Scott, to be United States Attorney for the Eastern 
District of California, Gary G. Schofield, to be United States Marshal 
for the District of Nevada, and Jonathan F. Mitchell, of Washington, to 
be Chairman of the Administrative Conference of the United States.


                    Select Committee on Intelligence

  The Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, February 14, 2018, at 2 p.m., to 
conduct a closed hearing

                          ____________________



