

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 14 (Sunday, January 21, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 14 (Sunday, January 21, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H606-H607]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




            DEMOCRATS ARE FOCUSED ON TAKING CARE OF FAMILIES

  (Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was given permission to address the House

[[Page H607]]

for 1 minute and to revise and extend her remarks.)
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, first of all, to the men and women of 
the United States military, how shameful it is to use you. You will be 
paid. And it is important to note that the Democratic Party, our 
leadership, is focusing on making sure your families are taken care of.
  This is a debate about ensuring domestic spending so that you have 
education dollars for your children--sadly, some of our soldiers are on 
food stamps--the CHIP program to be fully funded and made permanent, 
and veterans benefits to continue.
  It is shameful.
  When I was growing up, the way to use language against a person 
running for office was for them to be called an ``N lover'' or for them 
to advocate for integrated schools or use the race card.
  Now, today, the person who has the highest office in the land is 
using the race card; and, sadly, congressional Republican Members and 
leadership are using it by way of illegal immigration in a political ad 
that has just come out to say that we are responsible for killings by 
illegal immigrants.
  DREAMers are not illegal immigrants. They are Americans. They are 
soldiers. They are doctors and lawyers. They are my neighbors. They are 
my interns.
  And I am saddened by this. I want the American people to know that 
the best moral stance to be is where the Democratic leadership is 
because we are standing for all of America, and we will continue to do 
so.
  Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to bring up H.R. 4872, the End 
the Shutdown Act of 2018, a continuing resolution that would 
immediately reopen the government through Tuesday while negotiations 
continue on a budget agreement that adheres to parity and on other 
critical issues to stop the Trump shutdown.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, that 
request cannot be entertained absent appropriate clearance.

                          ____________________



