

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 47 (Monday, March 19, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 47 (Monday, March 19, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1787]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




SOCIAL SECURITY TOTALIZATION AGREEMENT WITH URUGUAY, TITLED ``AGREEMENT 
    ON SOCIAL SECURITY BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE 
  ORIENTAL REPUBLIC OF URUGUAY,'' AND AN ACCOMPANYING LEGALLY BINDING 
ADMINISTRATIVE ARRANGEMENT TITLED ``ADMINISTRATIVE ARRANGEMENT BETWEEN 
   THE COMPETENT AUTHORITIES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE 
ORIENTAL REPUBLIC OF URUGUAY FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE AGREEMENT ON 
                        SOCIAL SECURITY''--PM 31

  The PRESIDING OFFICER laid before the Senate the following message 
from the President of the United States, together with an accompanying 
report; which was referred to the Committee on Finance:
To the Congress of the United States:
  Pursuant to section 233(e)(1) of the Social Security Act, as amended 
by the Social Security Amendments of 1977 (Public Law 95-216, 42 U.S.C. 
433(e)(1)), I transmit herewith a social security totalization 
agreement with Uruguay, titled ``Agreement on Social Security between 
the United States of America and the Oriental Republic of Uruguay,'' 
and the accompanying legally binding administrative arrangement, titled 
``Administrative Arrangement between the Competent Authorities of the 
United States of America and the Oriental Republic of Uruguay for the 
Implementation of the Agreement on Social Security between the United 
States of America and the Oriental Republic of Uruguay'' (collectively 
the ``Agreements''). The Agreements were signed at Montevideo, Uruguay, 
on January 10, 2017.
  The Agreements are similar in objective and content to the social 
security totalization agreements already in force with most European 
Union countries, Australia, Canada, Chile, Japan, Norway, the Republic 
of Korea, and Switzerland. Such bilateral agreements provide for 
limited coordination between the United States and foreign social 
security systems to eliminate dual social security coverage and 
taxation, and to help prevent the lost benefit protection that can 
occur when workers divide their careers between two countries.
  The Agreements contain all provisions mandated by section 233 of the 
Social Security Act and, pursuant to section 233(c)(4), other 
provisions which I deem appropriate to carry out the purposes of 
section 233.
  I also transmit for the information of the Congress a report required 
by section 233(e)(1) of the Social Security Act on the estimated number 
of individuals who will be affected by the Agreements and the 
Agreements' estimated cost effect. Also included are a summary of the 
main provisions and an annotated version of the Agreements with 
descriptions of each article. The Department of State and the Social 
Security Administration have recommended the Agreements to me.
  I commend to the Congress the Agreement on Social Security between 
the United States of America and the Oriental Republic of Uruguay and 
the Administrative Arrangement between the United States of America and 
the Oriental Republic of Uruguay for the Implementation of the 
Agreement on Social Security between the United States of America and 
the Oriental Republic of Uruguay.
                                                     Donald J. Trump.  
The White House, March 19, 2018.

                          ____________________



