

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 16 (Tuesday, January 23, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 16 (Tuesday, January 23, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S464]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   TRIBUTE TO GILBERT ``GIL'' VANOVER

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize Gilbert 
``Gil'' Vanover, who has committed his life to serving the people of 
McCreary County, KY, and the country.
  A Korean war veteran, Gil joined the U.S. Air Force in 1950 after he 
graduated from McCreary County High School. During a mission in a B-26 
Bomber, Gil's plane was shot down, forcing him and his team to 
evacuate. Gil parachuted out of the plane and was later rescued by 
Allied Forces.
  During his landing, Gil suffered several injuries, causing him to be 
discharged from the Air Force. However, that did not dissuade him from 
serving his country again, and he reenlisted. After 28 years of service 
to his Nation, he retired as a first sergeant at the Wright-Patterson 
Air Force Base in Ohio. Among his many well-earned recognitions, Gil 
was awarded the Bronze Star and the Cross of Gallantry Air Medal for 
his selfless military service to our country.
  After his career in the Armed Forces, Gil returned back to his 
hometown to serve his community in a new way: as a teacher. He taught 
history for 15 years at McCreary County High School, the same school he 
had attended years before.
  I would like to urge my colleagues to join me in thanking Gil for his 
bravery and perseverance in his service to our country, as well as his 
commitment to the next generation of his community in McCreary County. 
He is an inspiration to his students, neighbors, and all who seek to 
help others.

                          ____________________



