

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 17 (Wednesday, January 24, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 17 (Wednesday, January 24, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S477-S478]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              NOMINATIONS

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, yesterday the Senate took another 
important step in confirming President Trump's qualified nominees. In 
strong bipartisan fashion, we confirmed Jerome Powell to serve as 
Chairman of the Federal Reserve by a vote of 84 to 13.
  Mr. Powell was a fine choice to lead the Federal Reserve System. His 
public service and private sector work alike have received accolades 
from across the political spectrum.
  He joined the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve in 2012. He 
has demonstrated an expert grasp of monetary policy and a commitment to 
improving the Fed's transparency and accountability to Congress and to 
the public. I enjoyed meeting with him during the confirmation process 
and look forward to his service in this new position.
  The position of Fed Chairman is integral to the health of the U.S. 
economy. Washington must empower the American people to create 
prosperity through sound policy that gets the government out of the way 
of workers and job creators. Jay Powell is up to the task. I was proud 
to vote to confirm him yesterday.
  The Senate also voted yesterday to advance the nomination of another 
highly qualified nominee--Alex Azar, who will serve as Secretary of 
Health and Human Services.
  In his impressive testimony before the Finance Committee, Mr. Azar 
discussed his intention to confront head-on the opioid crisis that is 
hurting so many families across our country, including in my home State 
of Kentucky. He made clear that he will place an important priority on 
prevention, education, and enforcement to halt the advance of this 
scourge.
  But he recognizes we need effective, compassionate treatment options 
for those who are seeking recovery, and for all Americans, he will work 
to expand access to high-quality, affordable healthcare options.
  His distinguished record, including prior HHS service as Deputy 
Secretary and private sector work, shows he is the right man for the 
job. It is vital that this Department be headed by a

[[Page S478]]

leader with Mr. Azar's extensive qualifications and excellent 
reputation. He will be responsible for overseeing $1.13 trillion in 
Department spending, supervising critical research, and administering 
and reforming programs that touch millions of American lives, such as 
Medicare and Medicaid.
  I look forward to voting soon in support of his confirmation.

                          ____________________



