

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 45 (Wednesday, March 14, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 45 (Wednesday, March 14, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H1568]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




  HONORING MARCY KAPTUR AS THE LONGEST SERVING WOMAN IN THE HOUSE OF 
                            REPRESENTATIVES

  (Ms. PELOSI asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.)
  Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, today, we in Congress have the honor of 
recognizing an outstanding leader and an esteemed colleague, 
Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur. We have the esteemed honor of recognizing 
Marcy Kaptur as she becomes the longest serving woman in the history of 
the House of Representatives. And it is not just about the longevity of 
her service, but the quality of her leadership in the House of 
Representatives in so many ways.
  It is fitting that we should recognize her outstanding leadership 
during Women's History Month. Thank you for giving us the privilege of 
doing that.
  I know that the people of Ohio and our colleagues from Ohio here take 
great pride in their association with Marcy Kaptur, as with the rest of 
us, and are honored to call her ``colleague.''
  She has left her mark in so many ways. She is the first woman ever to 
be assigned to serve on the Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense. In 
addition to protecting the American people, honoring our first 
responsibility to protect and defend, she is the champion for the World 
War II Memorial and a determined defender of all who served there and 
their legacy.
  Thank you, Marcy Kaptur, for that.
  Marcy Kaptur has taken great pride, serving as a constant, unwavering 
voice for the American heartland in the U.S. Congress.
  Her faith is important to her: her faith in God, her faith in her 
community, and her faith in our country. As a leader on the Joint 
Select Committee on Solvency of Multiemployer Pension Plans, for 
example, she is a strong champion for retirees and their endangered 
pensions.
  The list goes on and on. From childhood to pensions, Marcy has been 
there in the lead on the Appropriations Committee.
  By the way, she is the longest serving woman on the Appropriations 
Committee, as well.
  Later today, at a reception to which you are all invited in the 
Rayburn Room, I will read a letter of congratulations from Barbara 
Mikulski, the longest serving woman in the Congress and Marcy in the 
House.
  It is really important to know the impact that Marcy has had on all 
of us. She is a person of the greatest integrity and sincerity. She 
knows her purpose. She knows her subjects. Her judgment is respected, 
and she always has a plan. Therefore, as I have said so many times, if 
you want to save yourself some time, just do what Marcy asks you to do 
the first time around.
  As a granddaughter of Polish immigrants, she takes great pride in her 
heritage, and as with most families taking pride in their heritage, she 
is fiercely patriotic and loves America and works every day for all 
families pursuing economic opportunity and the American Dream.
  Marcy, thank you for your outstanding leadership on behalf of Ohioans 
for sure, for all Americans, and on behalf of women, girls, and 
families across the country and across the world. It is an honor to 
serve with you, a privilege to call you ``colleague,'' and a joy to 
call you ``friend.'' Thank you, Marcy Kaptur.

                          ____________________



