

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 5 (Tuesday, January 9, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 5 (Tuesday, January 9, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H66]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               NATIONAL LAW ENFORCEMENT APPRECIATION DAY

  (Mr. LaMALFA asked and was given permission to address the House for 
1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. LaMALFA. Mr. Speaker, I rise in recognition of National Law 
Enforcement Appreciation Day. But it isn't just a day for all of us; it 
should be every day. They are on the front lines protecting our 
families, our lives, our homes, and our values. We need to keep that in 
mind: to appreciate them every day.
  When you see them in the community, they are not someone to be afraid 
of. They are our neighbors. They are doing the same things we are: 
raising their kids, sending their kids to school, going to the park, 
and enjoying life, just as we do.
  With all of the misunderstanding about law enforcement these days, it 
is really disheartening to see what some of our law enforcement 
officers have to put up with in order to do a job to protect all of us.
  Each year, we lose many officers. At least 125 were lost in the line 
of duty last year, including eight in my home State of California.
  I want to tell them that we do appreciate them: from the California 
Highway Patrol that keeps an eye on our offices, the Capitol Hill 
Police here, our city police, our county sheriffs, all of them. We do 
appreciate them because we know they are on the front line and they are 
just like us. We want to honor them constantly for stepping forward to 
do a very difficult task that is sometimes misunderstood and 
unappreciated. The vast majority of us Americans and northern 
Californians do appreciate them. God bless them all and may they be 
safe.

                          ____________________



