

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 22 (Monday, February 5, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 22 (Monday, February 5, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H765]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




            RECOGNIZING THE SOMERVELL COUNTY FIRE DEPARTMENT

  (Mr. WILLIAMS asked and was given permission to address the House for 
1 minute.)
  Mr. WILLIAMS. Mr. Speaker, today I would like to recognize a local 
fire department from Texas' 25th District, the Somervell County Fire 
Department. They recently had their annual banquet to honor 
firefighters for their bravery and their valor.
  This year, Mr. Matt Peelman and Mr. Brandon Fipps received two of the 
top awards for 2017. Matt was named the Career Firefighter of the Year, 
and Brandon was selected as the Volunteer Firefighter of the Year.
  Committing one's life to protecting others is no easy task; so to 
both of these heroes, I want to say thank you. I thank them for their 
dedication and for putting their life on the line to get everyday 
Texans out of harm's way.
  In addition to these two, there are many others at the station who 
were recognized for their courage: Nathan Huhn, Michael Laviada, Donna 
Owens, Blaine Stroud, Emma Turner, Jason Sanchez, Jerry Darnell, 
Ashileen Shepard, Brad Smith, Dakota Stroud, Trevor Crawford, Ben 
Welch, Fallon Wirsing, Tyler Brown, Kelby Bridwell, David Culp, Nicole 
Gilbert, Mandy Bradford, Kaine Popejoy, Randy Hurtado, Andrew Vance, 
and John Mark Thomas.
  Mr. Speaker, these men and women who serve their local community are 
a rare find. They are heroes, and I am honored to represent them in the 
25th Congressional District of Texas.
  With that being said, may God bless Texas, may God bless the first 
responders, and God bless the United States of America. In God We 
Trust.

                          ____________________



