

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 44 (Tuesday, March 13, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 44 (Tuesday, March 13, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1688]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I have 8 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


                      Committee on Armed Services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, March 13, 2018, at 9:30 a.m. to 
conduct a hearing.


               Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

  The Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, March 13, 2018, at 10 a.m. 
to conduct a hearing.


                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, March 13, 2018, at 2:30 p.m. to 
conduct a hearing entitled, ``State Fragility, Growth, and Development: 
Designing Policy Approaches that Work.''


                       Committee on the Judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, March 13, 2018, at 10 a.m., to 
conduct a hearing entitled ``The Freedom of Information Act: Examining 
the Administration's Progress on Reforms and Looking Ahead.''


                    Select Committee on Intelligence

  The Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, March 13, 2018, at 2:30 p.m., to hold 
a closed hearing.


                     Subcommittee on Cybersecurity

  The Subcommittee on Cybersecurity of the Committee on Armed Services 
is authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, 
March 13, 2018, at 10 a.m. to conduct a hearing.


Subcommittee on Communication, Technology, Innovation, and the Internet

  The Subcommittee on Communication, Technology, Innovation, and the 
Internet of the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, March 
13, 2018, at 10 a.m. to conduct a hearing entitled, ``Rebuilding 
Infrastructure in America: Investing in Next Generation Broadband.''


      Subcommittee on Surface Transportation and Merchant Marine 
                  Infrastructure, Safety and Security

  The Subcommittee on Surface Transportation and Merchant Marine 
Infrastructure, Safety and Security of the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Tuesday, March 13, 2018, at 10 a.m. to conduct a hearing 
entitled, ``Rebuilding Infrastructure in America: Investing in State 
and local Transportation Needs.''

                          ____________________



