

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 50 (Thursday, March 22, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 50 (Thursday, March 22, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1978-S1980]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




    TARGETED REWARDS FOR THE GLOBAL EDUCATION OF HUMAN TRAFFICKING--
                               Continued

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that 
notwithstanding rule XXII, the Senate now vote on the motion to invoke 
cloture

[[Page S1979]]

on the motion to concur in the House amendment to the Senate amendment 
to H.R. 1625; further, that if cloture is invoked, all postcloture time 
be yielded back and Senator Lee or his designee be recognized to make a 
budget point of order; that the majority leader or his designee be 
recognized to make a motion to waive; and that following the 
disposition of the motion to waive, the Senate vote on the motion to 
concur with further amendment with no other intervening action or 
debate.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
  The Senator from Tennessee.
  Mr. CORKER. Mr. President, reserving the right to object, the House 
sent a bill over today a little after 1 o'clock, and it is 11:56 p.m. I 
know that every Senator here has the right to object, and I assume some 
people have objected to voting.
  We are not going to close. I had called down earlier and asked the 
Secretary if we are not going to vote by 10 o'clock, if we could just 
vote at 8 o'clock in the morning. This is ridiculous. It is juvenile. 
This is a juvenile process that we go through every time we do one of 
these.
  I would respectfully ask our leader, who has been dealing with a lot 
today--and I am glad that he has the job he has and I don't, and the 
Secretary has the job that she has and I don't--could you explain to us 
what has occurred over the last 11 hours that keeps us here voting on a 
bill that we all know is going to pass, regardless of how we vote on it 
and that has kept us from just going ahead and voting?
  Could you explain to the body, just very quickly, what has happened? 
And could we in the future possibly try to resolve these things at a 
decent hour, or come back the next morning and vote?
  Mr. McCONNELL. I would say to my good friend from Tennessee--by the 
way, I am very sorry he has decided to leave the Senate, given how much 
he has obviously enjoyed it today.
  Mr. CORKER. The changes that have occurred at the White House in the 
last several hours, and this--it has been an unusual day, I will say.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Well, my good friend from Tennessee knows that my 
principal responsibility is begging, pleading, and cajoling. I have 
been in continuous discussions, shall I say, with several of our 
Members who were legitimately unhappy about one aspect or another, and 
they spent a lot of time thinking over whether or not they wanted to 
expedite the process. I must say, after a long and intense day of such 
discussions with several of our Members who have legitimate concerns, I 
am relieved, rather than depressed, that we might be able to actually 
finish tonight.
  Mr. CORKER. Well, if I could, reserving the right to object, I would 
like for us to have some degree of discussion about this in the 
future--either to finish our business at a normal time or to come back 
the next morning. This is a ridiculous process that we go through where 
people extort us until we get so tired that we are willing to do 
whatever it is they wish for us to do.
  I don't know what the issues were today. For instance, I would love 
to have a week's debate on an AUMF at some point. Now, I can hold this 
vote up on a legitimate issue and say: No, we are not going to vote 
until you agree that we are going to have an AUMF debate. I haven't 
done that. To my knowledge, I have never in my life held a vote up. 
Maybe I did 10 years ago and I can't remember.
  But I just think that, again, we ought to have a little more 
certainty around here. I appreciate that people have flights in the 
morning and that there are some codels going out. So I am not going to 
object.
  However, I am going to discuss with other Members, whether in the 
future, if we cannot finish our business at a reasonable hour, let's 
just come back the next morning and start.
  With that, I do not object.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
  Without objection, it is so ordered.


                             Cloture Motion

  Pursuant to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the Senate the pending 
cloture motion, which the clerk will state.
  The legislative clerk read as follows:

                             Cloture Motion

       We, the undersigned Senators, in accordance with the 
     provisions of rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the Senate, 
     do hereby move to bring to a close debate on the motion to 
     concur in the House amendment to the Senate amendment to H.R. 
     1625.
         Mitch McConnell, John Cornyn, Susan M. Collins, Lamar 
           Alexander, Pat Roberts, Orrin G. Hatch, David Perdue, 
           Lindsey Graham, Thom Tillis, Lisa Murkowski, Shelley 
           Moore Capito, Richard Burr, Mike Rounds, John Hoeven, 
           Rob Portman, John Boozman.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unanimous consent, the mandatory quorum 
call has been waived.
  The question is, Is it the sense of the Senate that debate on the 
motion to concur in the House amendment to the Senate amendment to H.R. 
1625, an act to amend the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 
1956 to include severe forms of trafficking in persons within the 
definition of transnational organized crime for purposes of the rewards 
program of the Department of State, and for other purposes, shall be 
brought to a close?
  The yeas and nays are mandatory under the rule.
  The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk called the roll.
  Mr. CORNYN. The following Senators are necessarily absent: the 
Senator from North Carolina (Mr. Burr), the Senator from Arizona (Mr. 
McCain), and the Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr. Toomey).
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Perdue). Are there any other Senators in 
the Chamber desiring to vote?
  The yeas and nays resulted--yeas 67, nays 30, as follows:

                      [Rollcall Vote No. 62 Leg.]

                                YEAS--67

     Alexander
     Baldwin
     Bennet
     Blumenthal
     Blunt
     Boozman
     Brown
     Cantwell
     Capito
     Cardin
     Carper
     Casey
     Cochran
     Collins
     Coons
     Cornyn
     Cortez Masto
     Donnelly
     Duckworth
     Ernst
     Graham
     Hassan
     Hatch
     Heinrich
     Heitkamp
     Heller
     Hirono
     Hoeven
     Inhofe
     Isakson
     Jones
     Kaine
     King
     Klobuchar
     Lankford
     Leahy
     Manchin
     Markey
     McConnell
     Menendez
     Moran
     Murkowski
     Murphy
     Murray
     Nelson
     Peters
     Portman
     Reed
     Roberts
     Rounds
     Rubio
     Schatz
     Schumer
     Scott
     Shaheen
     Shelby
     Smith
     Stabenow
     Tester
     Thune
     Tillis
     Udall
     Van Hollen
     Warner
     Whitehouse
     Wyden
     Young

                                NAYS--30

     Barrasso
     Booker
     Cassidy
     Corker
     Cotton
     Crapo
     Cruz
     Daines
     Durbin
     Enzi
     Feinstein
     Fischer
     Flake
     Gardner
     Gillibrand
     Grassley
     Harris
     Johnson
     Kennedy
     Lee
     McCaskill
     Merkley
     Paul
     Perdue
     Risch
     Sanders
     Sasse
     Sullivan
     Warren
     Wicker

                             NOT VOTING--3

     Burr
     McCain
     Toomey
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this vote, the yeas are 67, the nays are 
30.
  Three-fifths of the Senators duly chosen and sworn having voted in 
the affirmative, the motion is agreed to.
  Cloture having been invoked, the motion to refer falls.
  The majority leader.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to withdraw the 
motion to concur with further amendment and the Senate now vote on the 
motion to concur.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
  Without objection, it is so ordered.


                        Vote on Motion to Concur

  The question now occurs on agreeing to the motion to concur in the 
House amendment to the Senate amendment to H.R. 1625.
  Mr. ROUNDS. I ask for the yeas and nays.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a sufficient second?
  There is a sufficient second.
  The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk called the roll.
  Mr. CORNYN. The following Senators are necessarily absent: the 
Senator form North Carolina (Mr. Burr), the Senator form Arizona (Mr. 
McCain), and the Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr. Toomey).
  Further, if present and voting, the Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr. 
Toomey) would have voted ``nay''.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there any other Senators in the Chamber 
desiring to Vote?
  The result was announced--yeas 65, nays 32, as follows:

[[Page S1980]]

  


                      [Rollcall Vote No. 63 Leg.]

                                YEAS--65

     Alexander
     Baldwin
     Bennet
     Blumenthal
     Blunt
     Boozman
     Brown
     Cantwell
     Capito
     Cardin
     Carper
     Casey
     Cochran
     Collins
     Coons
     Cornyn
     Cortez Masto
     Donnelly
     Duckworth
     Durbin
     Graham
     Hassan
     Hatch
     Heinrich
     Heitkamp
     Heller
     Hirono
     Hoeven
     Inhofe
     Isakson
     Jones
     Kaine
     King
     Klobuchar
     Leahy
     Manchin
     McConnell
     Menendez
     Moran
     Murkowski
     Murphy
     Murray
     Nelson
     Peters
     Portman
     Reed
     Roberts
     Rounds
     Rubio
     Schatz
     Schumer
     Scott
     Shaheen
     Shelby
     Smith
     Stabenow
     Tester
     Thune
     Udall
     Van Hollen
     Warner
     Whitehouse
     Wicker
     Wyden
     Young

                                NAYS--32

     Barrasso
     Booker
     Cassidy
     Corker
     Cotton
     Crapo
     Cruz
     Daines
     Enzi
     Ernst
     Feinstein
     Fischer
     Flake
     Gardner
     Gillibrand
     Grassley
     Harris
     Johnson
     Kennedy
     Lankford
     Lee
     Markey
     McCaskill
     Merkley
     Paul
     Perdue
     Risch
     Sanders
     Sasse
     Sullivan
     Tillis
     Warren

                             NOT VOTING--3

     Burr
     McCain
     Toomey
  The motion was agreed to.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The majority leader.

                          ____________________



