

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 49 (Wednesday, March 21, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 49 (Wednesday, March 21, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1879-S1880]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I have 11 requests for committees to 
meet during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of 
the Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


                          Committee on Budget

  The Committee on Budget is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Wednesday, March 21, 2018, at 10:30 a m. to conduct a 
hearing.


               Committee on Environment and Public Works

  The Committee on Environment and Public Works is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 21, 2018, at 10 
a.m. to conduct a hearing.


                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 21, 2018, at 10 a.m. to 
conduct a hearing on the following nominations Kirsten: Dawn Madison, 
of Florida, to be an Assistant Secretary (International Narcotics and 
Law Enforcement Affairs), and Thomas J. Hushek, of Wisconsin, to be 
Ambassador to the Republic of South Sudan, both of the Department of 
State.


                      Committee on Indian Affairs

  The Committee on Indian Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 21, 2018, at 2:30 p.m. to 
conduct a hearing on S. 1250 and S. 2515.


                      Committee on Indian Affairs

  The Committee on Indian Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 21, 2018, at 2:30 p.m. to 
conduct a hearing entitled ``The President's FY2019 Budget Request for 
Indian Programs.''


                       Committee on the Judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 21, 2018, at 10 a.m. to 
conduct a hearing on the following nominations: Michael Y. Scudder, of 
Illinois, and Amy J. St. Eve, of Illinois, both to be a United States 
Circuit Judge for the Seventh Circuit, and Charles J. Williams, to be 
United States District Judge for the Northern District of Iowa.

[[Page S1880]]

  



                     Committee on Veterans' Affairs

  The Committee on Veterans' Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 21, 2018, at 2 p.m. to 
conduct a hearing.


                    Select Committee on Intelligence

  The Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 21, 2018, at 9:30 a.m. to 
conduct a hearing.


                        Subcommitee on Seapower

  The Subcommittee on Seapower of the Committee on Armed Services is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 
21, 2018, at 2:30 p.m. to conduct a hearing on the nomination of John 
L. Ryder, of Tennessee, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the 
Tennessee Valley Authority.


                    Subcommitee on Strategic Forces

  The Subcommittee on Strategic Forces of the Committee on Armed 
Services is authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on 
Wednesday, March 21, 2018, at 2:30 p.m. to conduct a hearing on the 
nomination of John L. Ryder, of Tennessee, to be a Member of the Board 
of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority.


        Subcommitee on Near East, South Asia, Central Asia, and 
                            Counterterrorism

  The Subcommittee on Near East, South Asia, Central Asia, and 
Counterterrorism of the Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 21, 2018, at 
2 p.m. to conduct a hearing entitled ``What's Next for Lebanon? 
Stability and Security Challenges''.

                          ____________________



