

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 13 (Saturday, January 20, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 13 (Saturday, January 20, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H585-H586]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     PRESIDENT TRUMP IS SUCCESSFUL

  (Mr. WILSON of South Carolina asked and was given permission to 
address the House for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I am grateful for American 
families that today marks the first year of the Presidency of Donald 
Trump. We can rejoice in his successes of promoting peace through 
strength abroad and economic opportunity at home; that America is being 
restored as a beacon of freedom and liberty.
  ISIS is now really being defeated with his call for victory 
supporting our military. The economy is booming with jobs and 
skyrocketing stock markets. His dedication for all Americans is clear, 
as African-American unemployment is at a 17-year low and Latino 
unemployment is at a record low.
  The Democrat response has been mean-spirited obstructionism of 
resistance. Last month, Senate Democrats

[[Page H586]]

opposed the tax cuts, which clearly benefit workers. And now, last 
night, Senate Democrats shut down the government in an ugly effort to 
smear the President while distracting the American people from the 
President's achievements on his anniversary.
  I have just learned, in fact, that Senate Democrats are closing 
National Guard armories across our States today at noon, putting our 
military readiness and troops at risk.
  I am confident that, with the positive leadership of Speaker Paul 
Ryan, House Republicans will continue to be the adults in the room for 
American families.
  In conclusion, God bless our troops, and we will never forget 
September the 11th in the global war on terrorism.
  Thank you, President Trump, for your heartfelt address to the 
historic March for Life yesterday on The Mall.

                          ____________________



