

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 7 (Thursday, January 11, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 7 (Thursday, January 11, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H164]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      AFL-CIO 2018 MLK CONFERENCE

  (Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute and to revise and extend her remarks.)
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, this weekend, I will join the AFL-CIO's 
2018 MLK Conference dealing with civil and human rights. At that time, 
we will discuss the GOP tax scam that stops the labor movement in its 
tracks because 83 percent of the tax cuts goes to the wealthiest 1 
percent and raises taxes on 86 million.
  I invite my constituents to join me from 1 to 3 at the Hilton 
Americas, where we will be talking about the labor movement and the 
devastation of the GOP tax scam on the American people.
  At the same time, I am glad that I live in a nation that welcomes 
those who want to serve coming from other countries and live up to the 
ideals of this country.
  I want to pay tribute to Rose and Jose Escobar. Jose came to this 
country under TPS from El Salvador. It is important that this family 
not be broken up. Jose was unfairly deported and deserves humanitarian 
parole to come back to be with his loving wife, a citizen who works for 
the Texas Medical Center, and his two wonderful children.
  TPS, again, is not violating or jeopardizing the American people's 
security. It is a reflection of our compassion, our humanity, and our 
respect for those who come to this Nation fleeing persecution and 
devastation. To send back Haitians, to send back El Salvadorans will be 
a terrible tragedy, and to send back our DREAMers will be worse. Let's 
work as Americans to make this country what it is, our greatest country 
in the world.

                          ____________________



