

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 14 (Sunday, January 21, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 14 (Sunday, January 21, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H605-H606]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              REPUBLICANS WILL NOT TAKE YES FOR AN ANSWER

  (Mr. HOYER asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, we are in the second day of this Trump 
shutdown because Republicans won't take yes for an answer.
  Senator Schumer went to the White House and had a deal with President 
Trump until the Freedom Caucus vetoed it and forced the President to go 
back on his word again.
  Senator Schumer offered President Trump his border wall. Republicans 
said no.
  Senate Democrats offered short-term continuing resolutions to keep 
the government open. Republicans said no.
  Mr. Speaker, I offered a 4-day CR to keep the government open while 
we work on reaching a budget agreement that adheres to parity. Mr. 
Meadows objected, and the Republicans again said no.
  When, I ask, will Republicans take yes for an answer?
  I ask: Will the Republican leadership allow its Members to vote for a 
clean CR to reopen the government instead of giving its most extreme 
Freedom Caucus faction a veto in order to perpetuate the Trump 
shutdown?
  Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to bring up H.R. 4872, the End 
the Shutdown Act of 2018, a continuing resolution that would 
immediately reopen the government through Tuesday while negotiations 
continue on a budget agreement that adheres to parity and on other 
critical issues.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Collins of Georgia). Under guidelines 
consistently issued by successive Speakers, as recorded in section 956 
of the House Rules and Manual, the Chair is constrained not to 
entertain the request unless it has been cleared by the bipartisan 
floor and committee leaderships.

[[Page H606]]

  

                          ____________________



