

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 41 (Thursday, March 8, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 41 (Thursday, March 8, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H1480]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       HONORING DR. GEORGE NIELD

  (Mr. BRIDENSTINE asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. BRIDENSTINE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor my friend, Dr. 
George Nield, on the occasion of his retirement as the FAA Associate 
Administrator for Commercial Space Transportation.
  Dr. Nield has been a tireless advocate for a commercial space 
industry that is more robust than ever and has been a great partner for 
those of us on the Hill who have worked to create an environment where 
the commercial space industry can thrive.
  Dr. Nield is a graduate of the United States Air Force Academy, and 
his time in the Air Force included assignments as an engineer at the 
Space and Missile Systems Center and Air Force Test Center, and as an 
assistant professor at the Air Force Academy.
  He later held many roles at NASA, managing the Flight Integration 
Office for the Space Shuttle program, and later working on the 
International Space Station program. Prior to coming to the FAA, Dr. 
Nield was a senior scientist in the advance programs group of Orbital 
Sciences Corporation, now Orbital ATK.
  George Nield has long understood the important role space plays in 
our country and dedicated his career to ensuring that the United States 
is the world's preeminent spacefaring nation. For the past 10 years, he 
has devoted himself to an industry that helps the United States 
Government complete its missions, grow our economy, and improve the 
quality of life for all Americans and those around the world. Our 
country is losing an important advocate for space. I wish him well in 
his retirement.

                          ____________________



