

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 15 (Monday, January 22, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 15 (Monday, January 22, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H612-H613]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     SHUTDOWN IS UNNECESSARY CRISIS

  (Mr. SCHNEIDER asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. SCHNEIDER. Mr. Speaker, this shutdown is an unnecessary, self-
created crisis driven by an unwillingness to compromise. The American 
people deserve better.
  There are bipartisan solutions available, solutions that responsibly 
fund our government and address the urgent priorities, from children's 
health and community healthcare centers, to DREAMers, to disaster 
relief.
  I have been meeting with Members on both sides of the aisle, 
including the Problem Solvers Caucus, and I know there is a real 
willingness to get this done. What we need is congressional leadership 
and a President willing to negotiate and allow a vote.
  We are almost 4 months into the fiscal year with no budget. We passed 
three continuing resolutions since September, but we cannot continue 
with these endless short-term patches. They are irresponsible, hurt our 
Nation, and hamper our military's ability to plan for the future. The 
Navy's Secretary likened it to putting $4 billion in a trash can, 
pouring lighter fluid on it, and setting it on fire.
  The clock is ticking. The last shutdown in 2013 cost our economy $24 
billion. This won't be resolved by one side going it alone. Let's end 
the political games, stop the finger-pointing, and do the work the 
American people sent us here to do.
  Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to bring up H.R. 4872, the End 
the

[[Page H613]]

Shutdown Act of 2018, a continuing resolution that would immediately 
reopen the government while negotiations can continue on a budget 
agreement that adheres to parity and on other critical issues.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair previously advised, that 
request cannot be entertained absent appropriate clearance.

                          ____________________



