

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 17 (Wednesday, January 24, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 17 (Wednesday, January 24, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S500-S501]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 108

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 108, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the excise tax on medical 
devices.


                                 S. 322

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 322, a bill to protect 
victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, and dating 
violence from emotional and psychological trauma caused by acts of 
violence or threats of violence against their pets.


                                 S. 526

  At the request of Mrs. Fischer, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 526, a bill to amend the 
Small Business Act to provide for expanded participation in the 
microloan program, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 740

  At the request of Mr. Lee, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 740, a bill to prohibit 
mandatory or compulsory checkoff programs.


                                 S. 833

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 833, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to expand health care and benefits from the 
Department of Veterans Affairs for military sexual trauma, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 918

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from 
Mississippi

[[Page S501]]

(Mr. Wicker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 918, a bill to amend title 
31, United States Code, to provide for automatic continuing 
resolutions.


                                S. 1148

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1148, a bill to 
amend title XIX of the Social Security Act to provide States with the 
option of providing medical assistance at a residential pediatric 
recovery center to infants under 1 year of age with neonatal abstinence 
syndrome and their families.


                                S. 1354

  At the request of Mr. Carper, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1354, a bill to establish 
an Individual Market Reinsurance fund to provide funding for State 
individual market stabilization reinsurance programs.


                                S. 1556

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1556, a bill to authorize 
the Secretary of the Interior to use designated funding to pay for 
construction of authorized rural water projects, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 2004

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2004, a bill to 
increase funding for the State response to the opioid misuse crisis and 
to provide funding for research on addiction and pain related to the 
substance misuse crisis.


                                S. 2127

  At the request of Ms. Murkowski, the names of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker), the Senator from Michigan (Mr. Peters), the 
Senator from North Carolina (Mr. Burr) and the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
King) were added as cosponsors of S. 2127, a bill to award a 
Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the United States merchant 
mariners of World War II, in recognition of their dedicated and vital 
service during World War II.


                                S. 2144

  At the request of Mr. Van Hollen, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Mr. Schatz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2144, a bill to provide a 
process for granting lawful permanent resident status to aliens from 
certain countries who meet specified eligibility requirements.


                                S. 2203

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2203, a bill to 
amend title 9 of the United States Code with respect to arbitration.


                                S. 2255

  At the request of Mr. Young, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2255, a bill to 
reauthorize title VI of the Higher Education Act of 1965 in order to 
improve and encourage innovation in international education, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 2330

  At the request of Mr. Flake, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Lankford) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2330, a bill to prohibit 
earmarks.

                          ____________________



