

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 48 (Tuesday, March 20, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 48 (Tuesday, March 20, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1847]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. CORKER. Mr President, I have 9 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


                      Committee on Armed Services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, March 20, 2018, at 9:30 a m. to 
conduct a hearing.


               Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

  The Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, March 20, 2018, at 10 a.m. 
to conduct a hearing.


                          Committee on Finance

  The Committee on Finance is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Tuesday, March 20, 2018, at 10:10 a.m. to conduct a 
hearing on the following nominations: John J. Bartrum, of Indiana, to 
be an Assistant Secretary, and Lynn A. Johnson, of Colorado, to be 
Assistant Secretary for Family Support, both of the Department of 
Health and Human Services.


                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, March 20, 2018, at 10:30 a.m. to 
conduct a hearing.


                       Committee on the Judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, March 20, 2018, at 10 a.m. to conduct 
a hearing entitled ``The Need to Reauthorize the Violence Against Women 
Act.''


                    Select Committee on Intelligence

  The Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, March 20, 2018, at 2:30 p.m. to 
conduct a closed hearing.


                        Subcommitee on Seapower

  The Subcommittee on Seapower of the Committee on Armed Services is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, March 
20, 2018, at 2:30 p.m. to conduct a hearing.


Subcommitee on Consumer Protection, Product Safety, Insurance, and Data 
                                Security

  The Subcommittee on Consumer Protection, Product Safety, Insurance, 
and Data Security of the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation is authorized to meet during the session of the Senate 
on Tuesday, March 20, 2018, at 2:30 p.m. to conduct a hearing entitled 
``Update on NHTSA and Automaker Efforts to Repair Defective Takata Air 
Bag Inflators.''


              Subcommitee on Clean Air and Nuclear Safety

  The Subcommittee on Clean Air and Nuclear Safety of the Committee on 
Environment and Public Works is authorized to meet during the session 
of the Senate on Tuesday, March 20, 2018, at 10 a.m. to conduct a 
hearing on the nomination of John L. Ryder, of Tennessee, to be a 
Member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority.

                          ____________________



