

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 58 (Wednesday, April 11, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 58 (Wednesday, April 11, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S2048]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       SPEAKER RYAN'S RETIREMENT

  Mr. SCHUMER. Now, Speaker Ryan. I know Speaker Ryan quite well. He is 
a good man. He is always true to his word. Even though we disagree on 
most issues, in the areas where we can work together, I find him to be 
smart, thoughtful, and straightforward. I find him to have a great deal 
of integrity. We don't agree, but he has deep beliefs, and he is not 
like some on his side of the aisle who say: It is my way or no way. He 
is willing to meet you to try to get something done.
  So I have thoroughly enjoyed working with Speaker Ryan. I admire him 
as a human being, as a religious man, and somebody who cares a lot 
about his family. I understand his frustrations; I do. When you have so 
many intransigent people in your caucus who say ``it is my way or no 
way,'' and your job, even though you have deep beliefs, is to want to 
get something done, it is hard. It is hard.
  Now, with his newfound political freedom, I hope the Speaker uses his 
remaining time in Congress to break free from these hard-right factions 
that have plagued him so and that have kept Congress from getting real 
things done. If he is willing to reach across the aisle, he will find 
Democrats willing and eager to work with him.
  I say to Speaker Ryan: Let's work together. You are more of a free 
man now. Follow your instincts. Your beliefs will not be the same as 
ours, but you will want to try to come to some kind of an agreement 
where we can meet somewhere in the middle.
  The job may be made harder because Congressmen Scalise and McCarthy 
are now competing for Ryan's job and the hard right's favor--they are 
too vital in that caucus--but I believe Speaker Ryan is up to the job 
and can overcome that problem and work in his last few months here for 
the betterment of our country.

                          ____________________



