

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 43 (Monday, March 12, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 43 (Monday, March 12, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1626]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK

  Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, across America, nearly 100,000 public 
schools open the door of opportunity to more than 50 million students 
from kindergarten through high school. In honor of this remarkable 
national accomplishment, I rise today to join Senator Tester in 
recognizing March 12 through 16 as Public Schools Week.
  I have visited more than 200 schools throughout my home State of 
Maine, and I have seen firsthand an inspiring commitment to excellence. 
It is a commitment that is shared by dedicated educators and staff, 
involved parents and community members, and enthusiastic students.
  Public education has had a profound impact on our Nation's history 
and continues to shape our future. Nine out of 10 students in the 
United States attend public schools. Last year, our public high schools 
achieved an alltime high graduation rate of 83 percent, and nearly 70 
percent of our high school graduates went on to higher education. 
Public schools both inspire students and give them tools to achieve 
their dreams.
  Not only do our public schools create lifelong learners, but they 
also help to foster active citizenship. In addition to academics, 
athletics, and the arts, schools throughout Maine offer programs to 
encourage environmental responsibility, civic engagement, and community 
service. I am so proud that every Veterans Day and Memorial Day, 
schools throughout my State hold assemblies to honor the men and women 
of their communities who served our Nation and defended our freedom.
  Our schools have become so much more than places where children are 
taught. From nutritious meals to health and emotional support services, 
public schools play a vital role in the lives of our young people.
  Education has been described as ``not the filling of a pail, but the 
lighting of a flame.'' We are fortunate to have many keepers of the 
precious flame of learning throughout our Nation, and I urge my 
colleagues to join Senator Tester and me in recognizing them during 
Public Schools Week.

                          ____________________



