

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 30 (Thursday, February 15, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 30 (Thursday, February 15, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1165-S1166]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 266

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. 266, a bill to award the 
Congressional Gold Medal to Anwar Sadat in recognition of his heroic 
achievements and courageous contributions to peace in the Middle East.


                                 S. 309

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 309, a bill to 
establish a Community-Based Institutional Special Needs Plan 
demonstration program to target home and community-based care to 
eligible Medicare beneficiaries.


                                 S. 382

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mr. Blunt) was added as a cosponsor of S. 382, a bill to require the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services to develop a voluntary registry 
to collect data on cancer incidence among firefighters.


                                 S. 428

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 428, a bill to 
amend titles XIX and XXI of the Social Security Act to authorize States 
to provide coordinated care to children with complex medical conditions 
through enhanced pediatric health homes, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 946

  At the request of Mr. Flake, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 946, a bill to require the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to hire additional Veterans Justice 
Outreach Specialists to provide treatment court services to justice-
involved veterans, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1086

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Daines) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1086, a bill to amend title 
10, United States Code, to remove the prohibition on eligibility for 
TRICARE Reserve Select of members of the reserve components of the 
Armed Forces who are eligible to enroll in a health benefits plan under 
chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code.


                                S. 1091

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the names of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin), the Senator from North Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) 
and the Senator from New Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1091, a bill to establish a Federal Task Force to 
Support Grandparents Raising Grandchildren.


                                S. 1403

  At the request of Mr. Daines, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1403, a bill to amend the Public Lands Corps Act of 1993 to establish 
the 21st Century Conservation Service Corps to place youth and veterans 
in national service positions to conserve, restore, and enhance the 
great outdoors of the United States, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1730

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the names of the Senator from Ohio 
(Mr. Portman) and the Senator from New Mexico (Mr. Heinrich) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1730, a bill to implement policies to end 
preventable maternal, newborn, and child deaths globally.


                                S. 1871

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1871, a 
bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to clarify the role of 
podiatrists in the Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1917

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from 
California (Ms. Harris) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1917, a bill to 
reform sentencing laws and correctional institutions, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 2072

  At the request of Mr. Merkley, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2072, a bill to amend the 
Toxic Substances Control Act to require the Administrator of the 
Environmental Protection Agency to take action to eliminate human 
exposure to asbestos, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2095

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from 
Florida (Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2095, a bill to 
regulate assault weapons, to ensure that the right to keep and bear 
arms is not unlimited, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2127

  At the request of Ms. Murkowski, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2127, a bill to 
award a Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the United States 
merchant mariners of World War II, in recognition of their dedicated 
and vital service during World War II.


                                S. 2136

  At the request of Mr. Whitehouse, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2136, a bill to 
expand the monthly payments that may be eligible for public service 
loan forgiveness.


                                S. 2155

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the names of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mr. Sasse) and the Senator from Alabama (Mr. Jones) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 2155, a bill to promote economic growth, provide 
tailored regulatory relief, and enhance consumer protections, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 2184

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mrs. 
Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2184, a bill to amend title 38, 
United States Code, to improve veterans' health care benefits, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 2270

  At the request of Mr. Daines, the name of the Senator from Arizona 
(Mr. McCain) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2270, a bill to make 
improvements to the account for the State response to the opioid abuse 
crisis to improve tribal health.


                                S. 2271

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr.

[[Page S1166]]

Kaine) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2271, a bill to reauthorize the 
Museum and Library Services Act.


                                S. 2324

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2324, a bill to amend the 
Investment Company Act of 1940 to change certain requirements relating 
to the capital structure of business development companies, to direct 
the Securities and Exchange Commission to revise certain rules relating 
to business development companies, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2329

  At the request of Mr. Hoeven, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mrs. 
Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2329, a bill to reauthorize and 
amend the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act of 2014, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 2372

  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the name of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Hatch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2372, a bill to amend title 38, 
United States Code, to provide outer burial receptacles for remains 
buried in National Parks, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2421

  At the request of Mrs. Fischer, the name of the Senator from Idaho 
(Mr. Risch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2421, a bill to amend the 
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act 
of 1980 to provide an exemption from certain notice requirements and 
penalties for releases of hazardous substances from animal waste at 
farms.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1953

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 1953 intended 
to be proposed to H.R. 2579, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code 
of 1986 to allow the premium tax credit with respect to unsubsidized 
COBRA continuation coverage.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1954

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 1954 intended 
to be proposed to H.R. 2579, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code 
of 1986 to allow the premium tax credit with respect to unsubsidized 
COBRA continuation coverage.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1958

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the names of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mrs. McCaskill), the Senator from New Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) and the 
Senator from Alabama (Mr. Jones) were added as cosponsors of amendment 
No. 1958 proposed to H.R. 2579, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to allow the premium tax credit with respect to 
unsubsidized COBRA continuation coverage.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1959

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from 
Tennessee (Mr. Corker) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 1959 
proposed to H.R. 2579, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 to allow the premium tax credit with respect to unsubsidized COBRA 
continuation coverage.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 2010

  At the request of Mr. Rounds, the names of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mrs. McCaskill), the Senator from New Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) and the 
Senator from Alabama (Mr. Jones) were added as cosponsors of amendment 
No. 2010 intended to be proposed to H.R. 2579, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow the premium tax credit with 
respect to unsubsidized COBRA continuation coverage.

                          ____________________



