

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 49 (Wednesday, March 21, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 49 (Wednesday, March 21, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H1733]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     HONORING LIEUTENANT CALEB KING

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Florida (Mr. DeSantis) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. DeSANTIS. Mr. Speaker, I rise to pay tribute to Lieutenant Caleb 
King, a naval aviator and Port Orange, Florida, native who died when 
his F/A-18 Super Hornet crashed while training onboard Naval Air 
Station Boca Chica in Key West, Florida.
  Caleb King was a standout football player at Warner Christian Academy 
in South Daytona. He was recruited to play football at a number of 
colleges but chose to combine college football with service to our 
country by attending the U.S. Naval Academy, and as a linebacker, he 
was a key component of successful Navy teams that played in two bowl 
games and, most importantly, went 4-0 against Army.
  After graduating from the U.S. Naval Academy, Caleb completed 
extensive training to become a naval aviator and was eventually 
assigned to Strike Fighter Attack Squadron 213 based in Virginia Beach. 
Our fighter jets represent the tip of the sphere of America's offensive 
air capabilities, and the aviators assigned to these units are some of 
the best sailors in the fleet, so it is not surprising that someone 
like Caleb would find himself at VFA-213.

  While we don't know yet the reason for the crash, suffice it to say 
that officers like Caleb put their lives on the line every day. The 
training they do is inherently dangerous, and it is not for the faint 
of heart.
  Caleb King was a big, strong, American patriot. He was an inspiration 
to those who knew him. He served our country with distinction and lived 
up to the Navy's ethos of honor, courage, and commitment.
  Our thoughts and prayers go out to the King family, particularly his 
wife, Victoria, and daughter, Rain.
  America lost a promising naval flight officer last week in Key West. 
Lieutenant King dedicated his life to something bigger than himself: 
serving our Nation in uniform and risking his own life to do so. That 
is what we call a hero.

                          ____________________



