

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 50 (Thursday, March 22, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 50 (Thursday, March 22, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1757-H1758]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              RECOGNIZING THE 50TH BIRTHDAY OF PEACE, INC.

  (Mr. KATKO asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.)
  Mr. KATKO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the 50th birthday 
of PEACE, Inc., a nonprofit, community-based organization in my 
district in Onondaga County.
  PEACE, Inc., was founded on March 26, 1968, with a mission to empower 
individuals in our community to thrive. Today, this organization plays 
an integral part in the lives of so many central New Yorkers. From 
children and families, to teenagers, to senior citizens, PEACE, Inc., 
is dedicated to helping all individuals realize their self-worth and 
become self-sufficient.
  Under the leadership of Executive Director Joe O'Hara and its board 
of directors, PEACE, Inc., in Onondaga County has such programs as Head 
Start, Senior Nutrition, the EITC Free Tax Prep programs, and many 
others.
  Poverty does not just hurt those who live in it; it hurts our entire 
community. By focusing on stabilizing families, improving living 
conditions, and developing partnerships with our regional schools, 
businesses, and other nonprofits, PEACE, Inc., has provided thousands 
of individuals and families in our community with a pathway out of 
poverty.
  After 50 years of outstanding work, PEACE, Inc., deserves our 
recognition and our gratitude. I join many in our community in wishing 
the many men and women involved in this great program congratulations 
on 50 years of serving the community.

[[Page H1758]]

  

                          ____________________



