

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 37 (Thursday, March 1, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 37 (Thursday, March 1, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1313]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                       RECOGNIZING SOUTH GEORGIA

 Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, as the senior Senator from 
Georgia, it is my honor to pay tribute to South Georgia on its 
selection as a ``2018 Great American Defense Community'' by the 
Association of Defense Communities.
  Since 1941, this region of my State has been the proud home of Moody 
Air Force Base and some of the best airmen in the world.
  I congratulate the outstanding South Georgia Military Affairs 
Council, which is led by local chambers of commerce in Berrien, Cook, 
Lanier, and Lowndes Counties, and the many community members who work 
to support Moody Air Force Base. They take great pride in this 
installation, and they understand how important the brave men and women 
who are based there are to our national security and to America.
  The Great American Defense Communities Program honoring these special 
volunteers recognizes the overall support that communities and regions 
in the U.S. provide to service members and military families to help 
ensure the highest quality of life possible. Selection for this honor 
is based on community building and integration, support and 
collaboration, educational and employment opportunities, and veteran 
and family support.
  I have seen firsthand how strongly the airmen and families associated 
with Moody Air Force Base are supported and appreciated by the South 
Georgia community. It is much more than simply a place to live. For our 
military members serving at Moody, their community is a place to call 
home. It is family.
  Moody Air Force Base is the home to the 23rd Wing ``Flying Tigers,'' 
which consists of the 23rd Fighter Group, the Air Force's largest A-10 
fighter group, the 347th Rescue Group, and the Avon Park Air Force 
Range, among others. From close air support to combat search and 
rescue, the dedicated airmen of Moody Air Force Base play a critical 
role in our national defense and our ability to project power around 
the globe.
  Throughout Georgia, we are fortunate to be home to welcoming 
communities for the servicemembers who are stationed at military bases 
across our State. South Georgia is a wonderful example of this spirit 
of service and patriotism. I congratulate this region and Moody Air 
Force Base on this distinct honor.

                          ____________________



