

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 2 (Thursday, January 4, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 2 (Thursday, January 4, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S46-S47]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 338

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from California 
(Ms. Harris) was added as a cosponsor of S. 338, a bill to protect 
scientific integrity in Federal research and policymaking, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1357

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Ms. Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1357, a bill to amend 
title XIX of the Social Security Act to provide a standard definition 
of therapeutic family care services in Medicaid.


                                S. 1674

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the names of the Senator from Connecticut 
(Mr. Blumenthal) and the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1674, a bill to

[[Page S47]]

provide grants for the repair, renovation, and construction of public 
elementary schools and secondary schools, to establish a school 
infrastructure bond program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1693

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Young) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1693, a bill to amend the 
Communications Act of 1934 to clarify that section 230 of that Act does 
not prohibit the enforcement against providers and users of interactive 
computer services of Federal and State criminal and civil law relating 
to sex trafficking.


                                S. 1764

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1764, a bill to extend 
the principle of federalism to State drug policy, provide access to 
medical marijuana, and enable research into the medicinal properties of 
marijuana.


                                S. 1911

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Ms. Murkowski) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1911, a bill to amend 
the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 to transfer 
certain funds to the 1974 United Mine Workers of America Pension Plan, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 2203

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2203, a bill to 
amend title 9 of the United States Code with respect to arbitration.


                              S. RES. 363

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Kaine) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 363, a resolution 
expressing profound concern about the growing political, humanitarian, 
and economic crisis in Venezuela and the widespread human rights abuses 
perpetrated by the Government of Venezuela.

                          ____________________



