

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 9 (Tuesday, January 16, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 9 (Tuesday, January 16, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S186-S187]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   200TH ANNIVERSARY OF MEXICO, MAINE

  Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, today I wish to commemorate the 200th 
anniversary of the town of Mexico, ME. Mexico was built with a spirit 
of determination and resiliency that still guides the community today, 
and this is a time to celebrate the generations

[[Page S187]]

of hard-working and caring people who have made it such a wonderful 
place to live, work, and raise families.
  The year of Mexico's incorporation, 1818, was but one milestone in a 
long journey of progress. For thousands of years, the land of fields, 
streams, and forests of what is now Oxford County was the home of the 
Abenaki. The reverence the Abenaki had for the natural beauty and 
resources of the region is upheld by the people of Mexico today.
  In 1789, the Massachusetts General Court granted 30,000 acres on the 
banks of the Androscoggin River to Colonel John Holman, a hero of the 
American Revolution. Officially named Township Number 1, the new 
settlement was popularly known by its growing population as 
Holmanstown. Upon incorporation in 1818, the townspeople chose a name 
that was inspired by the ongoing struggle by the country of Mexico for 
independence from Spain and that reflected their own commitment to 
American liberty.
  With the mighty Androscoggin River providing power, Mexico soon was 
home to many lumber, grain, and textile mills. When the first paper 
mill opened across the river in Rumford in 1893, the people of Mexico 
were part of the skilled and dedicated workforce that built a great 
Maine industry. The prosperity produced by hard work and determination 
was invested in schools and churches to create a true community.
  Today visitors and residents alike enjoy Mexico's scenery, historic 
buildings, and outdoor recreation opportunities. The energy and 
planning that are going into Mexico's 200th anniversary celebration 
demonstrate the pride townspeople have in their town.
  The celebration of Mexico's 200th anniversary is not merely about the 
passing of time; it is about human accomplishment. We celebrate the 
people who, from the dawn of our Nation to our time, have pulled 
together, cared for one another, and built a great community. Thanks to 
those who came before, Mexico, ME, has a wonderful history. Thanks to 
those there today, it has a bright future.

                          ____________________



