

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 56 (Monday, April 9, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 56 (Monday, April 9, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S2011]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                    REMEMBERING HOWARD T. OWENS, JR.

 Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I rise today with a heavy heart 
to pay tribute to Howard T. Owens, Jr., an exemplary public servant, 
leader, and friend. Sadly, Mr. Owens passed away on April 3, 2018, at 
the age of 83. He will be remembered for his outstanding legacy of 
dedication to Connecticut as both a statesman and a judge.
  Howard began his impressive career in public service as an assistant 
U.S. attorney and then as a State senator representing the city of 
Bridgeport and the town of Trumbull. I had the honor of briefly serving 
with Howard during my tenure in the Connecticut House of 
Representatives.
  Beginning in 1974 through 1988, Howard held this seat with the 
exception of one term in 1984. He took every opportunity while in the 
capitol to improve the quality of life for not just those who elected 
him, but for all the people of Connecticut, whether it was promoting 
mass transit, especially for the urban centers, as senate cochair of 
the transportation committee or seeking a fairer justice system as 
senate cochair of the judiciary committee.
  In 1998, Howard's passion for State service took on a new shape when 
he received the appointment to serve as a judge on the superior court. 
Throughout his time as a State judge, he presided over a number of 
high-profile cases, which earned Howard recognition for his patient, 
thoughtful oversight of complex divorce decisions.
  Although dedicated to public service, Howard always made time for his 
friends, especially when they needed help--in the courtroom, as well as 
outside of it. His legacy of unfailing service and dedication to his 
community is evident when speaking with anyone who knew him. A caring 
man with a good sense of humor, he carried out his work humbly and with 
a sense of devotion to those close to him and to the rest of 
Connecticut.
  Howard added inimitable wisdom to the capitol and the courthouse and 
is known by many of us throughout the State as a tireless supporter of 
Connecticut and the Nation's best interests. His commitment to the rule 
of law and loyalty to his friends and family have left a lasting, 
positive mark on Connecticut's legacy.
  My wife, Cynthia, and I extend our deepest sympathies to Howard's 
family during this difficult time, particularly to his wife, Ann, and 
their four children. May their many wonderful memories of Howard 
provide them solace and comfort.

                          ____________________



