

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 45 (Wednesday, March 14, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 45 (Wednesday, March 14, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1733]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        MICHIGAN PTA CENTENNIAL

  Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, today I wish to pay special tribute to 
the Michigan Parent Teacher Association, which this year is celebrating 
100 years of advocacy on behalf of Michigan's children and families.
  A lot has changed since the Michigan PTA was first established in 
Battle Creek on May 19, 1918. Parents today are as likely to learn 
school news via Facebook or text messages as they are from notes sent 
home, and students are as likely to learn their lessons on laptops and 
tablets as they are on the chalkboard.
  However, one thing hasn't changed at all: Michigan PTA members are 
still working together every day to provide a quality education and 
nurturing environment for every Michigan child.
  They do that in the best way possible, by bringing together families, 
educators, school boards, nonprofit organizations, businesses, 
community leaders, and elected officials around a common cause: 
promoting the welfare of Michigan children in school, at home, and in 
the community.
  It has been said that it takes a village to raise a child, and the 
PTA is building that village.
  They are building that village by offering parents resources on 
important topics like teen driving, bullying prevention, online safety, 
and career planning.
  They are building that village by presenting the Fran Anderson 
Michigan PTA Scholarship to high school seniors who have demonstrated 
leadership and advocacy skills through their involvement in PTA.
  They are building that village through Advocacy Day and advocacy 
training that gives members the tools they need to speak up for 
policies that benefit students, families, and schools.
  They are building that village by ensuring that parents remain strong 
partners in the education of their children.
  For a century, the Michigan PTA has made sure that the voices of our 
parents are heard and that the needs of our children are not forgotten. 
I have been honored to join them in this effort and look forward to 
continuing our work together.
  Michigan's future is found in our children. Thanks to the Michigan 
PTA for 100 years of making that future a bright one.
  Thank you.

                          ____________________



