

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 22 (Monday, February 5, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 22 (Monday, February 5, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S601]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         FUNDING THE GOVERNMENT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, on another matter, our deadline to 
fund the Federal Government is this Thursday. Serious bipartisan 
negotiations continue on long-term spending levels, along with other 
important issues. I am optimistic that these talks will bear fruit.
  In the meantime, as broader discussions continue, we have the 
opportunity to remove the uncertainty facing our all-volunteer Armed 
Forces.
  Since the passage of the Budget Control Act, it has become 
increasingly obvious that current funding levels are not sufficient for 
our Armed Forces to accomplish each of the missions and tasks that our 
Nation asks of them.
  Secretary Mattis's new national defense strategy will require 
considerable new investment, and he has repeatedly pointed out that 
short-term continuing resolutions harm the readiness of our forces.
  I am pleased that we are making real headway in our negotiations over 
spending caps and other important issues, but there is no reason why 
our warfighters need to continue to face uncertainty until all of the 
other issues are resolved.
  Last week, a bipartisan majority in the House passed a bill that 
would fund our national defense through fiscal year 2018. Democrats and 
Republicans came together, voting to secure adequate, predictable, 
annual funding for our Armed Forces while we continue our productive 
negotiations on all these other subjects. The Senate will soon take up 
this House-passed bill.
  I have recently heard many of my Democratic colleagues detail the 
harmful effects of short-term funding measures on our servicemembers. 
Soon, each one of us will have a chance to vote to give them the 
certainty they deserve while our other work continues.

                          ____________________



