

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 46 (Thursday, March 15, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 46 (Thursday, March 15, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H1615]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          HONORING JOE ORGILL

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Tennessee (Mr. Kustoff) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor and 
remember Joel Orgill, a friend of mine and a great west Tennessean who 
passed away this week at the age of 80.
  Joe was a lifelong Memphian who inspired so many with his business 
prowess, his strong faith, and, most importantly, his kindness and 
commitment to giving back to his community. Through the years, Joe was 
always very nice to me and offered great advice and counsel.
  Like most Memphians, I knew Joe as an astute businessman who started 
in the family business as a salesman and worked his way up to president 
and chairman of the board. Joe played a major role in growing Orgill, 
Inc., the company as it is known today, into one of the largest 
hardware distributors of its kind in the entire world and the longest 
running business in Memphis history.
  Joe Orgill was a real titan in the hardware industry. Besides leading 
one of the major privately held companies in the Memphis area, Joe was 
a real people person. He had the rare ability to connect and to 
interact with people of all types and, more importantly, treated 
everyone the same way.
  But much more importantly, Joe was a philanthropist who always gave 
back to his community. Joe Orgill dedicated an incredible amount of his 
time and resources to charitable organizations throughout the Midsouth: 
the United Way, Meals on Wheels, Church Health Center, Rhodes College, 
the Dixon Gallery and Gardens, and many more.
  I mentioned Meals on Wheels. Joe took great pleasure in stopping 
whatever he was doing, whatever meetings, to personally deliver these 
meals to those most needy. To me, that really personifies Joe Orgill.
  But most importantly, Joe enjoyed spending time with his family.
  Roberta and I send our condolences to Joe's wife, Irene, as well as 
his four daughters--Adele, Irene, Anne, and Kate--and to the entire 
family.
  While we mourn the loss of Joe, I know that his spirit lives on in 
his wonderful family and in the Memphis community, and I have no doubt 
that Joe Orgill's legacy will inspire generations to come.

                          ____________________



