

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 49 (Wednesday, March 21, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 49 (Wednesday, March 21, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1737-H1738]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




 EXTENSION OF TRADE PROMOTION AUTHORITY--MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF 
                THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 115-104)

  The SPEAKER pro tempore laid before the House the following message 
from the President of the United States; which was read and, together 
with the accompanying papers, referred to the Committee on Ways and 
Means and ordered to be printed:

To the Congress of the United States:
  Today, I am requesting that the Congress extend trade authorities 
procedures for 3 years. As required under section 103(c)(2) of the 
Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 
2015 (Trade Priorities Act), I have attached to this message the report 
describing the progress that has been made in trade negotiations by my 
Administration and the reasons why the extension is necessary.
  As noted in the 2018 Trade Policy Agenda, my Administration has 
launched a new era in American trade policy, driven by a determination 
to use the leverage available to us as the world's largest economy to 
open foreign markets, and to obtain more efficient global markets and 
fairer treatment for American workers. One of the major pillars 
supporting my trade policy is the pursuit of better trade deals.

[[Page H1738]]

  As you know, my Administration is pursuing the renegotiation of the 
North American Free Trade Agreement--something many have promised but 
have failed to deliver. In addition, my Administration is exploring 
potential trade agreement partners, including in Africa and Southeast 
Asia.
  I hope my Administration can continue to work with the Congress to 
pursue new and better trade deals for America's workers, farmers, 
ranchers, and businesses. Extension of trade authorities procedures is 
essential to fulfill that task and to demonstrate to our trading 
partners that my Administration and the Congress share a common goal 
when it comes to trade.
                                                     Donald J. Trump.  
The White House, March 20, 2018.

                          ____________________



