

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 6 (Wednesday, January 10, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 6 (Wednesday, January 10, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S136-S137]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     REMEMBERING ANNE MICHELE IRBY

  Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, today, with sadness in my heart, I wish to 
pay tribute to a very special person, Anne Michele Irby, a member of my 
staff for over 25 years and a dear friend who died on December 18, 
2017.
  Anne was born in Baltimore and raised in Parkville. She was the 
daughter of Basil T. Irby, a sales representative for the Baltimore 
Stationery Co., and Jean Craig, a homemaker. She attended St. Thomas 
More School and was a 1979 graduate of the old Seton High School in 
Charles Village. She received a diploma from what was then Villa Julie 
College and earned a bachelor's degree from the University of 
Baltimore. Early in her career, she worked for the Baltimore Jewish 
Council and then became a lobbyist for Associated Catholic Charities of 
Baltimore.
  Anne joined my office in 1990 when I was a Member of the U.S. House 
of Representatives and remained a member of my team when I became a 
U.S. Senator. She was a dedicated caseworker in my Baltimore office and 
was an invaluable resource to my staff and the citizens of Maryland. 
She was an indefatigable advocate for veterans and their families and 
helped them navigate a complicated system to obtain disability, 
medical, and educational benefits. She also helped veterans obtain 
much-needed medical appointments and lost medals. In addition to her 
work with veterans, she also worked tirelessly to help Marylanders save 
their homes as the foreclosure crisis spread across the State during 
the recession.
  Anne was very knowledgeable about the agencies and personnel 
available to serve the needs of my constituents. Agency professionals 
knew Anne and respected her willingness to assist those constituents in 
need. Anne considered her position in my office as a career, not just 
``a job.'' She was a true professional who wanted to make life better 
for as many people as she could. That is the essence of public service.
  Anne would be best described as a ``gentle soul.'' She was a devoted 
caregiver to her parents and close family members. She was a huge 
football fan. I think the only person she ever had a ``beef'' with was 
John Elway. The Baltimore Colts drafted him in 1983, but he refused to 
play for the Colts, so they had to trade him to Denver. Even though she 
was from Baltimore, she later cheered hard for the team from Washington 
after the Colts left town under the cover of darkness on March 29, 
1984. She spent many Mondays talking about how her team fared on 
Sunday. In addition to her love of football, Anne enjoyed a good book 
and a hot cup of coffee. She would often visit Washington's Politics 
and Prose bookstore to pick up the latest bestseller or meet her 
favorite author. She frequented Baltimore's Woodlea Bakery and was 
known for bringing their donuts and cakes to the office for the rest of 
the staff and visitors.
  Ralph Waldo Emerson said, ``To laugh often and much; To win the 
respect of intelligent people and the affection of children; To earn 
the appreciation of honest critics and endure the betrayal of false 
friends; To appreciate

[[Page S137]]

beauty, to find the best in others; To leave the world a bit better, 
whether by a healthy child, a garden patch, or a redeemed social 
condition; To know even one life has breathed easier because you have 
lived. This is to have succeeded.''
  Anne Irby left us much too soon, but she succeeded. She touched so 
many lives and helped so many people and families across the State. She 
will be remembered for putting the concerns of others before her own. 
Many people wake up every day hoping to make a difference. We can all 
take comfort in knowing that Anne Irby actually did make a difference. 
I send my deepest condolences to her sister Donna Jean Rodgers, her 
other family members, and her friends. We are all grieving.
  I salute Anne for a job extraordinarily well done and pledge today 
that she will always be a member of ``Team Cardin.''

                          ____________________



