

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 10 (Wednesday, January 17, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 10 (Wednesday, January 17, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S254-S255]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                S. 1364

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Bennet) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1364, a bill to establish 
within the Smithsonian Institution the National Museum of the American 
Latino, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1585

  At the request of Mr. Whitehouse, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1585, a bill to 
amend the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 to provide for 
additional disclosure requirements for corporations, labor 
organizations, Super PACs and other entities, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1653

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1653, a bill to 
provide for the overall health and well-being of young people, 
including the promotion of lifelong sexual health and healthy 
relationships, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1899

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the names of the Senator from Alaska 
(Mr. Sullivan) and the Senator from Maine (Mr. King) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1899, a bill to reauthorize and extend funding for 
community health centers and the National Health Service Corps.


                                S. 2105

  At the request of Mr. Boozman, the names of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen), the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Menendez) and the 
Senator from Oregon (Mr. Merkley) were added as cosponsors of S. 2105, 
a bill to modify the presumption of service connection for veterans who 
were exposed to herbicide agents while serving in the Armed Forces in 
Thailand during the Vietnam era, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2152

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2152, a bill 
to amend title 18, United States Code, to provide for assistance for 
victims of child pornography, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2203

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from 
Oregon (Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2203, a bill to 
amend title 9 of the United States Code with respect to arbitration.


                                S. 2259

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2259, a bill 
to establish certain duties for pharmacies to ensure provision of Food 
and Drug Administration-approved contraception, medication related to 
contraception, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2271

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the name of the Senator from Rhode Island 
(Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2271, a bill to 
reauthorize the Museum and Library Services Act.


                                S. 2278

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2278, a bill to 
amend the Public Health Service Act to provide grants to improve health 
care in rural areas.
  At the request of Mr. Roberts, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2278, supra.


                                S. 2301

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2301, a bill to 
strengthen parity in mental health and substance use disorder benefits.


                              S.J. RES. 8

  At the request of Mr. Udall, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 8, a joint resolution 
proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States 
relating to contributions and expenditures intended to affect 
elections.


                              S. RES. 367

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the name of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Hatch) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 367, a resolution condemning 
the Government of Iran for its violence against demonstrators and 
calling for peaceful resolution to the concerns of the citizens of 
Iran.


                              S. RES. 368

  At the request of Mr. Corker, the names of the Senator from New 
Mexico (Mr. Heinrich), the Senator from Colorado (Mr. Gardner), the 
Senator from Montana (Mr. Daines), the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
Merkley) and the Senator from Michigan (Mr. Peters) were added as 
cosponsors of S. Res. 368, a resolution supporting the right of all 
Iranian citizens to have their voices heard.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1879

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the names of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Udall) and the Senator from Montana (Mr. Daines) were added as 
cosponsors of amendment No. 1879 intended to be proposed to S. 139, a 
bill to implement the use of Rapid DNA instruments to inform decisions 
about pretrial release or detention and their conditions, to solve and 
prevent violent crimes and other crimes, to exonerate the innocent, to 
prevent DNA analysis backlogs, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1880

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the names of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Udall) and the Senator from Montana (Mr. Daines) were added as 
cosponsors of amendment No. 1880 intended to be proposed to S. 139, a 
bill to implement the use of Rapid DNA instruments to inform decisions 
about pretrial release or detention and their conditions, to solve and 
prevent violent crimes and other crimes, to exonerate the innocent, to 
prevent DNA analysis backlogs, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1881

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the names of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Udall), the Senator from Montana (Mr. Daines), the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) and the Senator from New Mexico (Mr. Heinrich) 
were added as cosponsors of amendment No. 1881 intended to be proposed 
to S. 139, a bill to implement the use of Rapid DNA instruments to 
inform decisions about pretrial release or detention and their 
conditions, to solve and prevent violent crimes and other crimes, to 
exonerate the innocent, to prevent DNA analysis backlogs, and for other 
purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1882

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the names of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Udall), the Senator from Montana (Mr. Daines) and the Senator from 
New Mexico (Mr. Heinrich) were added as cosponsors of amendment No. 
1882 intended to be proposed to S. 139, a bill to implement the use of 
Rapid DNA instruments to inform decisions about pretrial release or 
detention and their conditions, to solve and prevent violent crimes and 
other crimes, to exonerate the innocent, to prevent DNA analysis 
backlogs, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1883

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the names of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Udall) and the Senator from Montana (Mr. Daines) were added as 
cosponsors of amendment No. 1883 intended to be proposed to S. 139, a 
bill to implement the use of Rapid DNA instruments to inform decisions 
about pretrial release or detention and their conditions, to solve and 
prevent violent crimes and other crimes, to exonerate the innocent, to 
prevent DNA analysis backlogs, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1884

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey), the Senator from New Mexico (Mr. Udall), 
the Senator from Montana (Mr. Daines) and the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Heinrich) were added as cosponsors of amendment No. 1884 intended 
to be proposed to S. 139, a bill to implement the use of Rapid DNA 
instruments to inform decisions about pretrial release or detention and 
their conditions, to solve and prevent violent crimes and other crimes, 
to exonerate the innocent, to prevent DNA analysis backlogs, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1886

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey), the Senator from

[[Page S255]]

New Mexico (Mr. Udall), the Senator from Montana (Mr. Daines) and the 
Senator from New Mexico (Mr. Heinrich) were added as cosponsors of 
amendment No. 1886 intended to be proposed to S. 139, a bill to 
implement the use of Rapid DNA instruments to inform decisions about 
pretrial release or detention and their conditions, to solve and 
prevent violent crimes and other crimes, to exonerate the innocent, to 
prevent DNA analysis backlogs, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1889

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey), the Senator from New Mexico (Mr. Udall), 
the Senator from Montana (Mr. Daines), the Senator from Vermont (Mr. 
Sanders), the Senator from Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) and the Senator from 
New Mexico (Mr. Heinrich) were added as cosponsors of amendment No. 
1889 intended to be proposed to S. 139, a bill to implement the use of 
Rapid DNA instruments to inform decisions about pretrial release or 
detention and their conditions, to solve and prevent violent crimes and 
other crimes, to exonerate the innocent, to prevent DNA analysis 
backlogs, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1890

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey), the Senator from New Mexico (Mr. Udall), 
the Senator from Montana (Mr. Daines) and the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Heinrich) were added as cosponsors of amendment No. 1890 intended 
to be proposed to S. 139, a bill to implement the use of Rapid DNA 
instruments to inform decisions about pretrial release or detention and 
their conditions, to solve and prevent violent crimes and other crimes, 
to exonerate the innocent, to prevent DNA analysis backlogs, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1892

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey), the Senator from New Mexico (Mr. Udall) and 
the Senator from Montana (Mr. Daines) were added as cosponsors of 
amendment No. 1892 intended to be proposed to S. 139, a bill to 
implement the use of Rapid DNA instruments to inform decisions about 
pretrial release or detention and their conditions, to solve and 
prevent violent crimes and other crimes, to exonerate the innocent, to 
prevent DNA analysis backlogs, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1893

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey), the Senator from New Mexico (Mr. Udall), 
the Senator from Montana (Mr. Daines) and the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Heinrich) were added as cosponsors of amendment No. 1893 intended 
to be proposed to S. 139, a bill to implement the use of Rapid DNA 
instruments to inform decisions about pretrial release or detention and 
their conditions, to solve and prevent violent crimes and other crimes, 
to exonerate the innocent, to prevent DNA analysis backlogs, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1895

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey), the Senator from New Mexico (Mr. Udall) and 
the Senator from Montana (Mr. Daines) were added as cosponsors of 
amendment No. 1895 intended to be proposed to S. 139, a bill to 
implement the use of Rapid DNA instruments to inform decisions about 
pretrial release or detention and their conditions, to solve and 
prevent violent crimes and other crimes, to exonerate the innocent, to 
prevent DNA analysis backlogs, and for other purposes.

                          ____________________



