

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 10 (Wednesday, January 17, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 10 (Wednesday, January 17, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S250]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         PRESIDENTIAL MESSAGES

                                 ______
                                 

REPORT RELATIVE TO THE CONTINUATION OF THE NATIONAL EMERGENCY THAT WAS 
   DECLARED IN EXECUTIVE ORDER 12947 WITH RESPECT TO TERRORISTS WHO 
        THREATEN TO DISRUPT THE MIDDLE EAST PEACE PROCESS--PM 24

  The PRESIDING OFFICER laid before the Senate the following message 
from the President of the United States, together with an accompanying 
report; which was referred to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
Urban Affairs:

To the Congress of the United States:
  Section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) 
provides for the automatic termination of a national emergency unless, 
within 90 days before the anniversary date of its declaration, the 
President publishes in the Federal Register and transmits to the 
Congress a notice stating that the emergency is to continue in effect 
beyond the anniversary date. In accordance with this provision, I have 
sent to the Federal Register for publication the enclosed notice 
stating that the national emergency declared with respect to foreign 
terrorists who threaten to disrupt the Middle East peace process 
declared in Executive Order 12947 of January 23, 1995, is to continue 
in effect beyond January 23, 2018.
  The crisis with respect to grave acts of violence committed by 
foreign terrorists who threaten to disrupt the Middle East peace 
process that led to the declaration of a national emergency on January 
23, 1995, has not been resolved. Terrorist groups continue to engage in 
activities that have the purpose or effect of threatening the Middle 
East peace process and that are hostile to United States interests in 
the region. Such actions continue to pose an unusual and extraordinary 
threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the 
United States. I have, therefore, determined that it is necessary to 
continue the national emergency declared in Executive Order 12947 with 
respect to foreign terrorists who threaten to disrupt the Middle East 
peace process and to maintain in force the sanctions against them to 
respond to this threat.
                                                     Donald J. Trump.  
The White House, January 17, 2018.

                          ____________________



