

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 23 (Tuesday, February 6, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 23 (Tuesday, February 6, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H787]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




     RECOGNIZING DR. JOSEPH UNDERWOOD AS A FINALIST FOR THE VARKEY 
                 FOUNDATION'S 2018 GLOBAL TEACHER PRIZE

  The SPEAKER. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Florida (Ms. 
Ros-Lehtinen) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I would like to recognize and 
congratulate Dr. Joseph Underwood, the head of the television 
production program at Miami Senior High School, located in my 
congressional district, on being named a finalist for the Varkey 
Foundation 2018 Global Teacher Prize. Joe is one of 50 finalists chosen 
from throughout the world. This prestigious award recognizes the 
fundamental role that teachers play in shaping their students' lives.
  Over the course of his 33-year teaching career, Joe has distinguished 
himself as an exemplary educator and has implemented a number of 
innovative tools and creative teaching techniques in his classroom. Joe 
has received numerous awards in his lifetime and was inducted into the 
National Teachers Hall of Fame in 2007.
  As a former Florida certified teacher, it has been a privilege to see 
so many of my constituents educated under Joe's tutelage.
  Once again, congratulations to Dr. Underwood for representing Miami-
Dade County Public Schools on the world's stage. You deserve this 
award, Joe.


Thanks to Drake for Inspiring Students of Miami Senior High School and 
                        the University of Miami

  Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, speaking of Miami Senior High, 
students were extremely excited to receive a surprise visit yesterday 
from hip-hop star Drake.
  He was recording his latest music video at the historic school in 
Little Havana and, afterward, made an unexpected $25,000 donation to 
Miami High. Drake also promised that every student would receive new 
uniforms that he designed himself.
  Our wonderful superintendent of Miami-Dade Public Schools, Alberto 
Carvalho, thanked Drake for all that he had done to support public 
education and for bringing his words of encouragement to south Florida 
students.
  But Drake did not stop there. He made another surprise visit to my 
alma mater, the University of Miami, where he awarded a $50,000 
scholarship to Destiny James, a biology student.
  Drake finished the day off by giving an impromptu performance on UM's 
campus. What a treat for the students.
  I would like to thank Drake for his generosity and for inspiring so 
many students throughout my congressional district. I can safely say 
that they will not forget yesterday any time soon.
  So go Stingarees of Miami High, and go the students of University of 
Miami. Go Canes.
  Thank you, Drake.

                          ____________________



