

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 36 (Wednesday, February 28, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 36 (Wednesday, February 28, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1283-S1284]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]


              HONORING FIRST LIEUTENANT CLAYSON R. CULLEN

  Mr. DONNELLY. Mr. President, today, I wish to recognize and honor the 
extraordinary service and sacrifice of U.S. Army 1LT Clayton R. Cullen 
of Bicknell, IN. Dedication to his country, loyalty to his fellow 
servicemembers, and a deep love for his family and faith defined Clay's 
life.
  Clay graduated from North Knox High School in 2011. During his time 
at North Knox, Clay excelled both in the classroom and on the soccer 
field. Clay was a member of the National Honor Society and served as 
student body president. He was also recognized as the most valuable 
player on the school's varsity soccer team, and a two-time Academic 
All-State player. Following graduation, Clay attended Indiana 
University, where he earned a bachelor's degree in history. Clay went 
on to join the Indiana University ROTC program, from which he graduated 
as a commissioned officer in 2015. He was described as ``the kind of 
guy who would always open his arms to you,'' according to Shawn 
Stachula, the executive officer of IU Army ROTC and fellow classmate. A 
dedicated friend, student, and leader, Clay was resilient, kind, 
caring, and a mentor to his peers. After graduation, he was a pilot 
with the rank of first lieutenant in the U.S. Army.
  In the Army, he was a member of the 4th Combat Aviation Brigade, 4th 
Infantry Division in Fort Carson, CO. There he distinguished himself as 
a selfless soldier who always put the mission, his country, and fellow 
servicemembers before himself. For his service, he earned several 
commendations, including the Army Achievement Medal, National Defense 
Service Medal, and Army Service Ribbon.
  On Saturday, January 20, 2018, Clay and Warrant Officer Kevin Burke, 
of California, tragically passed away when the AH64E Apache helicopter 
they were piloting crashed at the National Training Center in Fort 
Irwin, CA. Unit Commander COL Scott Gallaway said that Clay ``left an 
indelible mark on the entire Iron Eagle team'' and that the lessons he 
taught his fellow servicemembers would resonate for years to come.
  Clay was a devoted patriot, son, and brother, who loved soccer, golf, 
kickball, reading, traveling, history, and trying new foods. Above all, 
he was a genuine and caring friend. Clay loved music and enjoyed 
attending concerts with friends, including Dave Matthews Band, Jimmy 
Buffett, and Zac Brown Band. Clay was selfless, brave, and passionate. 
He dedicated his life to serving others, whether it was through a 
mission trip to Sri Lanka or protecting his fellow Americans.
  Clay helped bring happiness to those he encountered and loved sharing 
his faith with others. He is survived and will be deeply missed by his 
parents, Robert and Julie Cullen; brother, Ian Cullen and Ian's wife, 
Katie; grandmother, Kathleen Curry Pack; aunt, Kay Mengedoht, along 
with numerous aunts, uncles, cousins, friends, and his U.S. Army 
family.
  As Clay's brother said, ``He didn't want to be a hero. He just wanted 
to be Clay. Not `thank you for your service' Clay. Not `you're so 
brave' Clay. Just Clay. For all these reasons and so many more, he is a 
hero.'' Clay set an

[[Page S1284]]

example for others and will be remembered for his dedication and love 
for his country.
  Let us emulate the shining example this brave man set for us and 
honor his commitment to serving his fellow citizens. May God welcome 
Clay home and give comfort to his family and friends.

                          ____________________



