

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 58 (Wednesday, April 11, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 58 (Wednesday, April 11, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S2047]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       SPEAKER RYAN'S RETIREMENT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, this morning, Speaker Ryan announced to 
his colleagues that he will be departing the House at the conclusion of 
the 115th Congress.
  Two and a half years ago, Paul Ryan was drafted by his colleagues to 
lead the House through a new era. Like a true leader, Paul stepped up 
to the plate. He answered his colleagues' call with exactly the 
earnest, selfless, and focused approach that has defined his entire 
career in Congress. The results have been beyond impressive.
  Capping off a remarkable 20-year career in Congress, Paul's 
speakership has yielded one significant accomplishment after another 
for his conference, his constituents in Wisconsin's First Congressional 
District, as well as the American people.
  True to his career-long reputation as a champion for pro-growth 
economics, Paul helped lead the way on last year's once-in-a-generation 
rewrite of the Nation's Tax Code. Thanks in large part to his personal 
passion and expertise, reform became a reality, and our economy is 
charting a new course toward greater prosperity and greater 
opportunity.
  On its own, this generational accomplishment would secure the 
Speaker's legacy as a transformational conservative leader, but, of 
course, it is far from the only fruit of his speakership. His 
leadership was vital to securing everything from the largest year-on-
year increase in defense funding in 15 years to the remaking of the way 
we treat and find cures for rare diseases. What is more, Paul has 
paired that ambitious agenda with infectious good cheer and an 
unflagging commitment to serve all Americans. Amidst all the stresses 
and pressures of leadership, Paul's optimism and energy never waned.
  It has been a sincere pleasure and a real inspiration to work 
alongside this humble servant and happy warrior. I am glad we can count 
on his continued leadership through the rest of this year because our 
work together is far from finished. I look forward to collaborating 
closely these next months to implement more of the inclusive, pro-
growth, pro-opportunity agenda the American people are counting on us 
to keep advancing.

                          ____________________



