

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 18 (Thursday, January 25, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 18 (Thursday, January 25, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S518-S519]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

               TRIBUTE TO DANIELLE HIGHLEY AND JAXON AGEE

 Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this week I have the honor of 
recognizing two of Montana's 24,000 children who benefit from the 
Children's Health Insurance Program, better known as CHIP. Jaxon Agee 
of Helena was diagnosed with Leigh syndrome as a baby. Access to a 
pediatrician is absolutely critical for Jaxon. Despite having a team of 
medical professionals who work to ensure he remains healthy, he has had 
to be flown from Helena to Community Medical Center's pediatric 
intensive care unit in Missoula several times. Jaxon's family is 
committed to caring for their son no matter what,

[[Page S519]]

but CHIP helps them manage Jaxon's condition and makes well-baby checks 
more affordable, ultimately lowering the odds of another emergency 
visit.
  Danielle Highley of Deer Lodge is another Montana kid who relies on 
CHIP funding. At just 18 months of age, Danielle lost the ability to 
walk. A form of juvenile arthritis proved to be a costly condition, as 
injections and infusions cost several thousand dollars, but when 
Danielle has consistent treatment, she can walk, run, and play like a 
kid again. Before being enrolled in CHIP, Danielle went without 
treatment for 3 months, and she again lost the ability to walk. CHIP 
has allowed Danielle the opportunity to get treatment and be a kid 
again. She is back in school, and when she grows up, of all things, she 
hopes to be a doctor for kids. I am also pleased to announce that she 
will be joining me as my guest at the State of the Union.
  Jaxon and Danielle, thank you for sharing your stories. I am so glad 
that Congress has passed, and the President has signed into law a 6-
year reauthorization of the program, the longest in its history. Now, 
the families of the 24,000 Montana children who depend on CHIP can rest 
assured their children will continue to have access to critical 
care.

                          ____________________



