

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 15 (Monday, January 22, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 15 (Monday, January 22, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H623]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    SIDING WITH THE AMERICAN PEOPLE

  (Mr. ROHRABACHER asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Speaker, the shutdown is over, at least 
temporarily.
  The American people should pay attention to what this was all about, 
how come the government shut down. The issue at hand which made sure 
that there was a separation, an opinion, that shut down the government 
was the following: should we be legalizing the status of 850,000 young 
people who were brought here illegally and came here illegally.
  The bottom line is we are talking about not tens, but hundreds, of 
millions, even billions, of dollars that would be siphoned away from 
that fund that we have here in Washington aimed at helping the American 
people. That money, the money that we have available for the veterans, 
available for seniors, available for our own young people, would be 
drained in order to give, yes, hundreds of millions of dollars to 
people who have come here illegally.
  Of course, 850,000 young people would then be given the right to 
bring in their relatives; so we are talking about millions of people 
being brought here because of 850,000 illegal young people here.
  The American people, whose side are we on? That was the question 
about this shutdown. Pay attention. The American people, will they have 
to have all of their resources drained away in order to take care of 
people who have come here illegally? No.
  I hope the American people pay close attention to who is siding with 
the American people versus who is siding with foreigners who have come 
here illegally and letting them suck up scarce funds here in 
Washington.

                          ____________________



