

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 45 (Wednesday, March 14, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 45 (Wednesday, March 14, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1549-H1550]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          GUN VIOLENCE REFORM

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
California (Ms. Matsui) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. MATSUI. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the courageous students 
in Sacramento, California, and across America who are saying enough 
with this country's epidemic of gun violence.
  Last week, I held a gun violence prevention student townhall in my 
district, and we were fortunate enough to be joined remotely by Skype 
by two students from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, 
Florida: Adam Alhanti and John Barnitt. They inspired us all with their 
dedication to a future without a fear of gun violence.
  The students that filled the auditorium of Kennedy High School in 
Sacramento to listen to Adam and John were fully informed, passionate, 
and focused on the future. They wanted to know how we can enforce 
stronger background checks, ban assault weapons, change a culture of 
guns in this country, and how they can amplify their voices.
  After hearing their thoughts and questions, I know one thing for 
sure: these amazing young people are not going to back down from 
achieving progress on this issue. I believe it would be incumbent upon 
all of us to listen to their voices. They are the voices of the future.
  As Adam from Parkland said during our townhall, this issue of gun 
violence affects all of us. No one wants to live in fear about going to 
school, work, the movies, church, a concert, or just walking on the 
street; so no one can afford to sit on the sidelines and do nothing to 
reform gun laws in this country. We owe it to these students, to our 
children, our grandchildren, and all future generations to come 
together and take action on commonsense legislation.
  Many of the things we want to see reformed are largely supported by 
the American people. In fact, one high school student in Sacramento 
pointed out to me that policies like universal background checks have 
widespread support from the public. It is true. Polls indicate that 
over 90 percent of the American people support stronger background 
checks.
  Under current Federal law, people who purchase firearms at a gun 
show, through classified ads, or on the internet bypass a background 
check. There is no excuse not to act to close those dangerous 
loopholes.
  It is our job to represent and act on the will of the citizens of 
this country. We can by voting on solutions like the bipartisan 
Thompson-King legislation that would expand and strengthen the current 
background check system. Yet another week in Congress and here we find 
ourselves without a vote on real gun violence reform legislation.
  At one point during my townhall last Friday, Adam from Parkland said: 
``We

[[Page H1550]]

are heard. There is no more, `Can we be heard?' It is now. People hear 
us. They ask, `What's next?'''
  These young people are rightfully going to keep up their demands 
until we make significant reforms that make a lasting impact. I ask my 
Republican colleagues to not only listen to these students, but to also 
take meaningful action to address the gun violence epidemic in this 
country. Words are not enough. We must move forward.

                          ____________________



