

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 58 (Wednesday, April 11, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 58 (Wednesday, April 11, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2068-S2069]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   TRIBUTE TO DR. KENNETH A. BERTRAM

  Mr. SCOTT. Mr. President, I rise today to celebrate the service and 
achievements of an esteemed and valued member of the U.S. Senior 
Executive Service, Dr. Kenneth A. Bertram, who completes a 32-year 
career of distinguished service to our Nation on June 30, 2018.
  Dr. Bertram has worked tirelessly to improve the medical readiness of 
U.S. military personnel, and challenged the constraints of a burdensome 
acquisition system that discouraged meaningful partnerships between 
military medicine and the commercial sector. His work culminated in the 
creation of the Medical Technology Enterprise Consortium, a South 
Carolina-based nonprofit corporation that connects more than 170 
private-sector companies, academic research institutions, and nonprofit 
organizations to the U.S. Army Medical Research and Materiel Command, 
fostering research collaborations to prevent injuries and disease 
impacting our Nation's soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines, treating 
those who are wounded in conflict and restoring the injured to the 
maximum achievable quality of life.

[[Page S2069]]

  Dr. Bertram's personal awards include the Meritorious Civilian 
Service Medal, the Superior Civilian Service Medal, two awards of the 
Legion of Merit, ``A'' Proficiency Designator in Hematology/Oncology 
from the Surgeon General of the U.S. Army, Order of Military Medical 
Merit, two awards of the U.S. Army Meritorious Service Medal, and two 
awards of the U.S. Army Commendation Medal. Dr. Bertram's 
professionalism, patriotism, and sustained selfless commitment to 
service reflect the very best values of our Nation's Senior Executive 
Service. I join his family and friends in wishing him the best in the 
years ahead.

                          ____________________



