

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 58 (Wednesday, April 11, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 58 (Wednesday, April 11, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S2079]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 OHIO FIRST RESPONDER APPRECIATION WEEK

  Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I wish to talk tonight about the brave 
Ohioans who dedicate themselves every day to protecting all of the rest 
of us; that is, our first responders. This week is Ohio First 
Responders Week, a week of appreciation, the theme being ``Bringing 
Help, Bringing Hope.'' Well said.
  Police officers, firefighters, EMS professionals, and other first 
responders put themselves in harm's way for us every single day. They 
risk their own safety to care for others. They wake up every day, put 
on their uniforms, and carry out their duties with an unwavering 
commitment to their communities and a pledge to protect those around 
them.
  This morning, we had our weekly Buckeye Coffee. We had people from 
all over Ohio there. Sure enough, a bunch of first responders showed 
up. It was the EMS chiefs association, and we had an opportunity to 
talk with them about what they are doing every day.
  Of course, EMS help with regard to traffic accidents, gunshot wounds, 
and so on. But one of the new challenges they face that is taking an 
enormous amount of their time and effort is the opioid crisis. I would 
bet if you go to your firehouse and ask them, the first responders in 
our communities are responding more to overdose runs than they are to 
fires. This is one example of where they are on the frontlines dealing 
with this issue and are applying Narcan, the miracle drug that reverses 
the effects of an overdose to save lives.
  We appreciate them, and the service and commitment of these first 
responders is needed now more than ever. I urge all Ohioans this week 
to demonstrate their thanks to first responders. If you live in a 
community that is having an event, which a number are, I hope you will 
attend the event. If not, if you cross paths with a first responder, 
thank him, thank her, and tell them we appreciate what they are doing.
  I know I speak for the entire Buckeye State when I say that we are 
grateful for the work our first responders do every single day, and 
they will continue, as the theme says this year, to bring help and hope 
to all of us. We thank them.

                          ____________________



