

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 43 (Monday, March 12, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 43 (Monday, March 12, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1626-S1627]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                      REMEMBERING CARMEN RODRIGUEZ

 Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, today, with a heavy heart, I 
wish to pay tribute to Carmen Rodriguez, a wonderful leader, role 
model, and family woman. Sadly, Mrs. Rodriguez passed away on January 
22, 2018--her 83rd birthday. She will be remembered for her outstanding 
public service, particularly her advocacy of Hartford's Puerto Rican 
community.
  Mrs. Rodriguez was born in Aguirre, PR, where she lived until she 
moved to Buffalo, NY, with her husband, Faustino, and their seven 
children. She became an active member of the Puerto Rican community 
there, serving as a member of the Puerto Rican Center, as well as the 
director of bilingual education at Public School 76, now known as the 
Herman Badillo Bilingual Academy. During her time in Buffalo, Carmen 
worked tirelessly on her own education, obtaining her GED, a bachelor's 
degree from Rosary Hill College, a master's in education from the State 
University of New York at Buffalo, and began her PhD.
  She took her passion for learning and educating to Hartford, CT, in 
1979, where she managed the Work Places program at the Hartford Board 
of Education, which helped students learn specific trades. Soon after, 
she began working for the deputy mayor to measure the efficiency of the 
program. Subsequently, she supervised Hartford Housing Authority's 
tenant education program for a decade. For 3 years, Carmen served as 
the executive director of La Casa de Puerto Rico, until retiring in 
1994.

[[Page S1627]]

  Her legacy of extraordinary service and dedication to her community 
shines clearly through the many people she affected, as well as through 
her children's unfailing efforts to uphold their mother's progress. I 
have seen this firsthand as two of Carmen's children, Maria and Raul, 
served in the Office of the Connecticut Attorney General during my 
tenure as attorney general.
  Carmen is known by many of us throughout Connecticut as an invaluable 
supporter of Hartford's best interests and a fearless leader of the 
Puerto Rican community. Her passion to use politics to initiate change 
has left her town--as well as the entire State--with great hope for the 
future.
  My wife, Cynthia, and I extend our deepest sympathies to Carmen's 
family during this difficult time, particularly to her 7 children, 15 
grandchildren, and 8 great-grandchildren. May their many wonderful 
memories of Carmen provide them solace and comfort in the days 
ahead.

                          ____________________



