

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 216 (Wednesday, January 3, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 216 (Wednesday, January 3, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S19-S20]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE SESSION

                                 ______
                                 

                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, the Senate will 
proceed to executive session to consider the following nomination, 
which the clerk will report.
  The assistant bill clerk read the nomination of John C. Rood, of 
Arizona, to be Under Secretary of Defense for Policy.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. There is 30 minutes equally divided for debate 
on this nomination.
  The Senator from Colorado.
  Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that all time be 
yielded back.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
  Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The question is, Will the Senate advise and consent to the Rood 
nomination?
  Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a sufficient second?
  There appears to be a sufficient second.
  The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk called the roll.
  Mr. CORNYN. The following Senators are necessarily absent: the 
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. Alexander), the Senator from North Carolina 
(Mr. Burr), the Senator from Utah (Mr. Hatch), the Senator from Nevada 
(Mr. Heller), the Senator from Arizona (Mr. McCain), the Senator from 
Kansas (Mr. Moran), the Senator from Alaska (Ms. Murkowski), the 
Senator from Georgia (Mr. Perdue), the Senator from Idaho (Mr. Risch), 
the Senator from Florida (Mr. Rubio), and the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott).
  Further, if present and voting, the Senator from Tennessee (Mr. 
Alexander) would have voted ``yea,'' the Senator from Idaho (Mr. Risch) 
would have voted ``yea,'' and the Senator from Florida (Mr. Rubio) 
would have voted ``yea.''
  Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Merkley) is 
necessarily absent.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs. Ernst). Are there any other Senators in 
the Chamber desiring to vote?
  The result was announced--yeas 81, nays 7, as follows:

                       [Rollcall Vote No. 1 Ex.]

                                YEAS--81

     Baldwin
     Barrasso
     Bennet
     Blumenthal
     Blunt
     Boozman
     Brown
     Cantwell
     Capito
     Cardin
     Carper
     Casey
     Cassidy
     Cochran
     Collins
     Coons
     Corker
     Cornyn
     Cortez Masto
     Cotton
     Crapo
     Cruz
     Daines
     Donnelly
     Duckworth
     Durbin
     Enzi
     Ernst
     Feinstein
     Fischer
     Flake
     Gardner
     Graham
     Grassley
     Hassan
     Heinrich
     Heitkamp
     Hirono
     Hoeven
     Inhofe
     Isakson
     Johnson
     Jones
     Kaine
     Kennedy
     King
     Klobuchar
     Lankford
     Leahy
     Lee
     Manchin
     McCaskill
     McConnell
     Menendez
     Murphy
     Murray
     Nelson
     Paul
     Peters
     Portman
     Reed
     Roberts
     Rounds
     Sasse
     Schatz
     Schumer
     Shaheen
     Shelby
     Smith
     Stabenow
     Sullivan
     Tester
     Thune
     Tillis
     Toomey
     Udall
     Van Hollen
     Warner
     Whitehouse
     Wicker
     Young

                                NAYS--7

     Booker
     Gillibrand
     Harris
     Markey
     Sanders
     Warren
     Wyden

[[Page S20]]


  


                             NOT VOTING--12

     Alexander
     Burr
     Hatch
     Heller
     McCain
     Merkley
     Moran
     Murkowski
     Perdue
     Risch
     Rubio
     Scott
  The nomination was confirmed.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, the motion to 
reconsider is considered made and laid upon the table and the President 
will be immediately notified of the Senate's action.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Democratic leader.

                          ____________________



