

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 22 (Monday, February 5, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 22 (Monday, February 5, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H766]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         TRAIN ACCIDENT HEROES

  (Mr. WILSON of South Carolina asked and was given permission to 
address the House for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr. Speaker, tragically, in the last 
week, I have been impacted by two train wrecks, and I have also seen 
firsthand civilian heroes rise to the challenges.
  The first, on Wednesday, was the trash truck collision in Crozet, 
Albemarle County, Virginia, where my wife, Roxanne, and I were 
passengers. It was inspiring to see immediately physician Members of 
Congress race to those injured in the wreck led by Congressman Brad 
Wenstrup from Ohio and Roger Marshall from Kansas and heroically 
assisted by registered nurse Lily Knight, wife of Congressman Steve 
Knight from California. First responders and emergency personnel were 
professional and showed great courage.
  Yesterday, an Amtrak train collided with a parked freight train in my 
home community of Pine Ridge, South Carolina. The passengers 
thoughtfully cared for each other as emergency personnel and law 
enforcement from Cayce and Pine Ridge, and Lexington County Sheriff Jay 
Koon, working with State officials, provided assistance coordinated by 
Governor Henry McMaster. The American Red Cross, along with Lexington 
School District Two, established a shelter for victims.
  I am grateful that Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao called with 
her sympathy and assurance of Federal support. Our deepest condolences 
go out to the families who have suffered a loss in these accidents and 
our prayers for the quick recovery for all injured.
  In conclusion, God bless our troops, and we will never forget 
September the 11th in the global war on terrorism.

                          ____________________



