

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 47 (Monday, March 19, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 47 (Monday, March 19, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1680-H1681]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




         HONORING THE LIFE OF STAFF SERGEANT CARL PHILIPPE ENIS

  (Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute and to revise and extend her remarks.)
  Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, it is with deep respect that I 
recognize the tragic loss of Staff Sergeant Carl Philippe Enis, 
pictured here, who was one of seven brave U.S. servicemembers killed in 
a helicopter crash last Thursday, March 15, 2018, in western Iraq.
  Carl, a south Florida native who grew up in my congressional district 
in Pinecrest, was an Air Force pararescueman serving in a combat role 
in Iraq for the 308th Rescue Squadron from Patrick Air Force Base 
supporting Operation Inherent Resolve when his helicopter went down.

[[Page H1681]]

  Sergeant Enis was a Reserve Citizen Airman combat rescue and recovery 
specialist who supported Air Force special operations. His job truly 
embodied his heart and spirit, where he consistently put his own life 
at risk to save others both in combat and humanitarian environments. He 
always tackled every challenge with a smile on his face, no matter the 
danger or difficulty.
  Carl was also an active outdoorsman who embraced his passion for 
fishing, hiking, hunting, and scuba diving, and lived his life to the 
fullest. He was a graduate of Gulliver Prep, in my congressional 
district, and Florida State University.
  Carl is survived by his wife, Angela; his mother, Colleen; and his 
brother, Edward. Their families, our community, and all Americans can 
be proud knowing that Sergeant Enis gave his last full measure 
performing his mission and serving the most noble pararescue creed: 
``These things we do, that others may live.''

                          ____________________



