

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 30 (Thursday, February 15, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 30 (Thursday, February 15, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1156]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE SESSION

                                 ______
                                 

                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
proceed to executive section for the en bloc consideration of the 
following nominations: Executive Calendar Nos. 588, 589, 642, 677, 678, 
679, 680, and 681.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The clerk will report the nominations en bloc.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read the nominations of Joseph 
D. Brown, of Texas, to be United States Attorney for the Eastern 
District of Texas for the term of four years; Matthew D. Krueger, of 
Wisconsin, to be United States Attorney for the Eastern District of 
Wisconsin for the term of four years; John H. Durham, of Connecticut, 
to be United States Attorney for the District of Connecticut for the 
term of four years; John C. Anderson, of New Mexico, to be United 
States Attorney for the District of New Mexico for the term of four 
years; Brandon J. Fremin, of Louisiana, to be United States Attorney 
for the Middle District of Louisiana for the term of four years; Joseph 
P. Kelly, of Nebraska, to be United States Attorney for the District of 
Nebraska for the term of four years; Scott W. Murray, of New Hampshire, 
to be United States Attorney for the District of New Hampshire for the 
term of four years; and David C. Weiss, of Delaware, to be United 
States Attorney for the District of Delaware for the term of four 
years.
  Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to consider the nominations en bloc.
  Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
vote on the nominations en bloc with no intervening action or debate; 
that if confirmed, the motions to reconsider be considered made and 
laid upon the table en bloc; that the President be immediately notified 
of the Senate's action; that no further motions be in order; and that 
any statements relating to the nominations be printed in the Record.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The question is, Will the Senate advise and consent to the Brown, 
Krueger, Durham, Anderson, Fremin, Kelly, Murray, and Weiss nominations 
en bloc?
  The nominations were confirmed en bloc.

                          ____________________



