

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 20 (Tuesday, January 30, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 20 (Tuesday, January 30, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H685]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        RECOGNIZING OFELIA RUDER

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
Florida (Ms. Ros-Lehtinen) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise this morning in recognition of 
Ofelia Ruder, who will be celebrating her 90th birthday this May.
  Ofelia Ruder is the executive director of the Cuban Hebrew 
Congregation, a religious organization in my congressional district 
that was dedicated to providing a home for Jews coming out of Cuba.
  Like me and my family and so many others, Mr. Speaker, Ofelia Ruder 
was forced to flee Castro's brutal tyranny. In 1960, she arrived in the 
United States, this great land of opportunity, with her husband and two 
boys. Soon thereafter, sadly, she lost her husband to cancer and was 
faced with a challenge of raising her two small children by herself. 
They both eventually became dedicated civil servants working to improve 
our south Florida community.
  Mr. Speaker, in the 50 years that Ofelia Ruder has served at the 
synagogue, she has touched the lives of so many and has been a beacon 
of hope for all those who know her. Her work has earned her many awards 
and recognitions for her contributions to our county, to the Cuban 
Hebrew Congregation, and to Israel. I am very thankful for Ofelia 
Ruder's service.
  ``Feliz cumpleanos,'' ``happy birthday,'' Ofelia.


                Honoring Palmetto Bay Native, Miki Erez

  Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor Palmetto Bay 
resident Miki Erez, a constituent of my congressional district who 
recently competed in the 2018 Fitbit Miami Marathon and Half Marathon.
  Miki was injured while serving in the Israeli Air Force during the 
1973 Yom Kippur War, where he suffered multiple spinal injuries. 
Despite three spinal operations over an 18-month period, Miki never let 
his injuries slow him down.
  Miki's experiences led him to create a revolutionary home training 
system for wheelchair users called Wheelchair Fitness Solutions. This 
system, the first of its kind, was designed specifically for disabled 
individuals.
  Miki also participates in a range of activities in south Florida, 
including wheelchair basketball and swimming, as well as contributing 
to the spinal cord injury community and veterans associations. Forty 
years later, his injuries have not prevented him from being an active 
and inspiring member of our south Florida community.
  Mr. Speaker, I am honored to represent people like Miki who inspire 
others each and every day.
  Congratulations to Miki Erez.

                          ____________________



