

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 40 (Wednesday, March 7, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 40 (Wednesday, March 7, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H1448]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1030
    RECOGNIZING THE GENEROSITY AND COMMITMENT OF PENN COMMUNITY BANK

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Fitzpatrick) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the 
generosity and commitment to community service of Penn Community Bank 
in my district in Bucks County, Pennsylvania.
  Over the course of the last year, 325 bank employees, executives, and 
directors raised nearly $78,000 for a variety of programs and 
activities in our community, which they generously donated to the 
United Way of Bucks County. Todd Hurley, Penn Community Bank's 
executive vice president and chief relationship officer, explained it 
best. He said: ``Each of our team members is proud of Penn Community 
Bank's continued support of United Way of Bucks County. We're dedicated 
to improving our local communities and helping United Way alleviate 
poverty, support education, and increase self-sufficiency across Bucks 
County.''
  Mr. Speaker, this gift will ensure that the United Way of Bucks 
County can continue their important mission, better serve the needs of 
the community, and reach even more of our neighbors in need. I applaud 
Penn Community Bank and encourage everyone throughout our community to 
follow their lead in helping those in need.


  Congratulating Pennsbury High School Students For Their Fundraising 
                                Efforts

  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate Pennsbury 
High School students on raising more than $50,000 to fight childhood 
cancer during their fourth annual Mini-THON.
  Students raised the $50,000, which benefits the Four Diamonds fund at 
the Penn State Health Milton S. Hershey Medical Center by hosting a 
football game fundraiser, through smoothie sales, and Mini-THON 
Thursdays. These efforts culminated in an 8-hour dance marathon on a 
Saturday. Mini-THON, which raised $18,000 in its inaugural year, has 
grown, according to the students involved, because of the group's 
ability to try different ideas each year. This keeps students engaged 
in fundraising and allows them to figure out ways and different methods 
that work best.
  The program is run by students, with the help of two faculty 
advisers. This year's student co-chairs who helped make Mini-THON a 
success were Charlie Bluestein and Kate Goldinger. As a Penn Stater 
myself and a member of our community, I could not be more proud of what 
these students have done, and I encourage everyone in our community to 
follow their lead to serve others in need.

                          ____________________



