

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 35 (Tuesday, February 27, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 35 (Tuesday, February 27, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1317-H1319]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




  ALLOW STATES AND VICTIMS TO FIGHT ONLINE SEX TRAFFICKING ACT OF 2017

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to House Resolution 748 and rule 
XVIII, the Chair declares the House in the Committee of the Whole House 
on the state of the Union for the further consideration of the bill, 
H.R. 1865.
  Will the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Carter) kindly take the chair.

                              {time}  1739


                     In the Committee of the Whole

  Accordingly, the House resolved itself into the Committee of the 
Whole House on the state of the Union for the further consideration of 
the bill (H.R. 1865) to amend the Communications Act of 1934 to clarify 
that section 230 of such Act does not prohibit the enforcement against 
providers and users of interactive computer services of Federal and 
State criminal and civil law relating to sexual exploitation of 
children or sex trafficking, and for other purposes, with Mr. Carter of 
Georgia (Acting Chair) in the chair.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The Acting CHAIR. When the Committee of the Whole rose earlier today, 
amendment No. 3 printed in House Report 115-583, offered by the 
gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. Jackson Lee), had been disposed of.


       Amendment No. 2 Offered by Mrs. Mimi Walters of California

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, the unfinished 
business is the demand for a recorded vote on amendment No. 2 printed 
in House Report 115-583, offered by the gentlewoman from California 
(Mrs. Mimi Walters) on which further proceedings were postponed and on 
which the ayes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 308, 
noes 107, not voting 15, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 90]

                               AYES--308

     Abraham
     Adams
     Aderholt
     Aguilar
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barragan
     Barton
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (GA)
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Blackburn
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bost
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (TX)
     Brooks (IN)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Buchanan
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carter (GA)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clyburn
     Coffman
     Cohen
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Connolly
     Cook
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costa
     Costello (PA)
     Courtney
     Crawford
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Culberson
     Curbelo (FL)
     Curtis
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Rodney
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     Demings
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSantis
     Deutch
     Diaz-Balart
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Donovan
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Duffy
     Dunn
     Ellison
     Espaillat
     Estes (KS)
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Faso
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Frankel (FL)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gallagher
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (LA)
     Graves (MO)
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Guthrie
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Handel
     Harper
     Hartzler
     Hastings
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Himes
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hoyer
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jackson Lee
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Johnson, Sam
     Joyce (OH)
     Kaptur
     Katko
     Keating
     Kelly (PA)
     Kihuen
     Kilmer
     Kind
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lance
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Latta
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Love
     Lowey
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     MacArthur
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Mast
     Matsui
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meehan
     Meeks
     Meng
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Moulton
     Mullin
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Neal
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Norcross
     Norman
     Nunes
     O'Halleran
     Olson
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Paulsen
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Polis
     Posey
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (NY)
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Ros-Lehtinen

[[Page H1318]]


     Rosen
     Roskam
     Ross
     Rothfus
     Roybal-Allard
     Royce (CA)
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Scalise
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott, David
     Sensenbrenner
     Serrano
     Sessions
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Soto
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tipton
     Tonko
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Webster (FL)
     Welch
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Wilson (SC)
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yarmuth
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Zeldin

                               NOES--107

     Allen
     Amash
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Bergman
     Beyer
     Biggs
     Blum
     Bonamici
     Brady (PA)
     Brat
     Bridenstine
     Brooks (AL)
     Buck
     Capuano
     Carson (IN)
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Comer
     Davidson
     Davis, Danny
     DelBene
     DeSaulnier
     DesJarlais
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Emmer
     Eshoo
     Farenthold
     Ferguson
     Foster
     Foxx
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gaetz
     Garrett
     Gohmert
     Gomez
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Graves (GA)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Harris
     Heck
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (NY)
     Hudson
     Huffman
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (LA)
     Jones
     Jordan
     Kelly (IL)
     Kelly (MS)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kildee
     King (IA)
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     Lamborn
     Lee
     Lewis (MN)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lofgren
     Loudermilk
     Lowenthal
     Lynch
     Massie
     McClintock
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meadows
     Moore
     Napolitano
     Nolan
     O'Rourke
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Perry
     Pocan
     Raskin
     Ratcliffe
     Richmond
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rouzer
     Rush
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, Austin
     Takano
     Titus
     Tsongas
     Walker
     Watson Coleman
     Weber (TX)
     Williams
     Wilson (FL)
     Wittman
     Young (IA)

                             NOT VOTING--15

     Black
     Carter (TX)
     Cleaver
     Cramer
     Cummings
     Engel
     Huizenga
     Long
     Payne
     Pearce
     Smith (WA)
     Speier
     Torres
     Trott
     Walz

                              {time}  1746

  Ms. GABBARD changed her vote from ``aye'' to ``no.''
  Messrs. EVANS, BROWN of Maryland, GRIJALVA, DeFAZIO, ZELDIN, Ms. 
SCHAKOWSKY, and Mr. GUTIERREZ changed their vote from ``no'' to 
``aye.''
  So the amendment was agreed to.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the committee amendment in the 
nature of a substitute, as amended.
  The amendment was agreed to.
  The Acting CHAIR. Under the rule, the Committee rises.
  Accordingly, the Committee rose; and the Speaker pro tempore (Mr. 
Byrne) having assumed the chair, Mr. Carter of Georgia, Acting Chair of 
the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union, reported 
that that Committee, having had under consideration the bill (H.R. 
1865) to amend the Communications Act of 1934 to clarify that section 
230 of such Act does not prohibit the enforcement against providers and 
users of interactive computer services of Federal and State criminal 
and civil law relating to sexual exploitation of children or sex 
trafficking, and for other purposes, and, pursuant to House Resolution 
748, he reported the bill back to the House with an amendment adopted 
in the Committee of the Whole.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under the rule, the previous question is 
ordered.
  Is a separate vote demanded on any amendment to the amendment 
reported from the Committee of the Whole?
  If not, the question is on the committee amendment in the nature of a 
substitute, as amended.
  The amendment was agreed to.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the engrossment and third 
reading of the bill.
  The bill was ordered to be engrossed and read a third time, and was 
read the third time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the passage of the bill.
  The question was taken; and the Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it.


                             Recorded Vote

  Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I demand a recorded vote.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a 5-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 388, 
noes 25, not voting 17, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 91]

                               AYES--388

     Abraham
     Adams
     Aderholt
     Aguilar
     Allen
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barragan
     Barton
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Bergman
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (GA)
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Bost
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Bridenstine
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Carter (GA)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Clyburn
     Coffman
     Cohen
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Connolly
     Cook
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costa
     Costello (PA)
     Courtney
     Crawford
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Culberson
     Curbelo (FL)
     Curtis
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     Davis, Rodney
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Deutch
     Diaz-Balart
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Donovan
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Duffy
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Ellison
     Emmer
     Espaillat
     Estes (KS)
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foster
     Foxx
     Frankel (FL)
     Frelinghuysen
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallagher
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Garrett
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Goodlatte
     Gottheimer
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Graves (MO)
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hastings
     Heck
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Higgins (NY)
     Hill
     Himes
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hoyer
     Hudson
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jackson Lee
     Jeffries
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Johnson, Sam
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Kaptur
     Katko
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     Kennedy
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Kustoff (TN)
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Latta
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lewis (MN)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     MacArthur
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Mast
     Matsui
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McNerney
     McSally
     Meadows
     Meehan
     Meeks
     Meng
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Moore
     Moulton
     Mullin
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Nolan
     Norcross
     Norman
     Nunes
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Pallone
     Palmer
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Paulsen
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Perry
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pittenger
     Pocan
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Polis
     Posey
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (NY)
     Rice (SC)
     Richmond
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Rosen
     Roskam
     Ross
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Roybal-Allard
     Royce (CA)
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Scalise
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Scott, David
     Sensenbrenner
     Serrano
     Sessions
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Soto
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tipton
     Titus
     Tonko
     Tsongas
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Welch
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Wilson (FL)
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yarmuth
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                                NOES--25

     Amash
     Beyer
     Biggs
     Davidson
     DeSaulnier
     Duncan (SC)

[[Page H1319]]


     Eshoo
     Gaetz
     Gosar
     Griffith
     Huffman
     Jayapal
     Jones
     Khanna
     Labrador
     Lee
     Lofgren
     Massie
     McClintock
     Rohrabacher
     Sanford
     Scott (VA)
     Takano
     Watson Coleman
     Williams

                             NOT VOTING--17

     Black
     Carter (TX)
     Cleaver
     Cramer
     Cummings
     Engel
     Huizenga
     Long
     Payne
     Pearce
     Simpson
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (WA)
     Speier
     Torres
     Trott
     Walz


                Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (during the vote). There are 2 minutes 
remaining.

                              {time}  1759

  So the bill was passed.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.
  Stated for:
  Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Mr. Speaker, I was unavoidably detained. Had I 
been present, I would have voted ``yea'' on rollcall No. 91.

                          ____________________



