

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 49 (Wednesday, March 21, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 49 (Wednesday, March 21, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1875-S1876]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 283

  At the request of Ms. Warren, her name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
283, a bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to provide for the 
treatment of veterans who participated in the cleanup of Enewetak Atoll 
as radiation exposed veterans for purposes of the presumption of 
service-connection of certain disabilities by the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 292

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the name of the Senator from Washington 
(Mrs. Murray) was added as a cosponsor of S. 292, a bill to maximize 
discovery, and accelerate development and availability, of promising 
childhood cancer treatments, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 307

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Ms. Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of S. 307, a bill to enhance the 
database of emergency response capabilities of the Department of 
Defense.


                                 S. 427

  At the request of Mr. Sanders, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 427, a bill to enhance 
Social Security benefits and ensure the long-term solvency of the 
Social Security program.


                                S. 1400

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, her name was added as a cosponsor of 
S. 1400, a bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to enhance 
protections of Native American tangible cultural heritage, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1539

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the names of the Senator from 
Alabama (Mr. Jones) and the Senator from Colorado (Mr. Bennet) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1539, a bill to protect victims of stalking 
from gun violence.


                                S. 1693

  At the request of Mr. Inhofe, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1693, a bill to amend the Communications Act of 1934 to clarify that 
section 230 of that Act does not prohibit the enforcement against 
providers and users of interactive computer services of Federal and 
State criminal and civil law relating to sex trafficking.
  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1693, supra.


                                S. 1756

  At the request of Mr. Sullivan, the name of the Senator from Texas 
(Mr. Cornyn) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1756, a bill to improve the 
processes by which environmental documents are prepared and permits and 
applications are processed and regulated by Federal departments and 
agencies, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2135

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mrs. McCaskill) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2135, a bill to enforce 
current law regarding the National Instant Criminal Background Check 
System.


                                S. 2278

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from 
Washington (Mrs. Murray) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2278, a bill to 
amend the Public Health Service Act to provide grants to improve health 
care in rural areas.


                                S. 2492

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the names of the Senator from Tennessee 
(Mr. Alexander) and the Senator from Alabama (Mr. Jones) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 2492, a bill to provide for the reporting to State and 
local law enforcement authorities of cases in which the national 
instant criminal background check system indicates that a firearm has 
been sought to be acquired by a prohibited person, so that authorities 
may pursue criminal charges under State law, and to ensure that the 
Department of Justice reports to Congress on prosecutions secured 
against prohibited persons who attempt to acquire a firearm.


                                S. 2513

  At the request of Mr. Alexander, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Ms. Murkowski) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2513, a bill to improve 
school safety and mental health services.


                                S. 2572

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2572, a bill to amend the 
Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to address and take 
action to prevent bullying and harassment of students.

[[Page S1876]]

  

                          ____________________



