

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 9 (Tuesday, January 16, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 9 (Tuesday, January 16, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H175]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    DOYLESTOWN TOWNSHIP BICENTENNIAL

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Fitzpatrick) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to thank and recognize the 
leaders of the Doylestown Township community in my district for their 
hard work, generosity, and support for the community as Doylestown 
Township celebrates its bicentennial, 200 years of history and 
community that I am proud to be a part of.
  I would like to recognize the Doylestown Township Board of 
Supervisors: Barbara Lyons, Rick Colello, Ryan Manion, Jennifer 
Herring, and Ken Snyder; and the Volunteer Bicentennial Committee: 
Arthur Zapolski, Joe Paternostro, Ted Feldstein, Stu Abramson, David 
Hansen. Dr. Vail Garvin, Tina Mazaheri, Mary Lou Parry, Renu Dalal, 
Beth Long, Chris Nardo, and John Arnold.
  I would also like to recognize the community sponsors whose 
generosity made the celebration possible: my friend Senator Chuck 
McIlhinney and State Representative Marguerite Quinn, Pine Run 
Retirement Community Center, Covenant Bank, Delaware Valley University, 
Boucher & James, Bucks County Water & Sewer Authority, Gilmore & 
Associates, Pennoni, Pennsylvania Soup & Seafood House, Pickering, 
Corts & Summerson, FRANC Environmental, Doylestown Hospital, Worth & 
Company, Shelley Law Offices, Greenstreet, CB Cares Educational 
Foundation, Mazaheri Law, Monument Bank, and Doylestown Health for 
sponsoring the opening gala I was privileged to attend.
  I ask the House of Representatives to join me in saying thank you for 
their commitment to our community.


                 Recognizing Souderton Area High School

  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize a school in 
my district. On November 30, 2017, Souderton Area High School was 
recognized as a National Banner Unified Champion School by the Special 
Olympics International headquarters.
  Through the diligence and compassion of Athletic Director Dennis 
Stanton and Supervisor of Special Education Megan Zweiback, the 
introduction of unified sports into the school has greatly enhanced the 
curriculum of special-needs students and allowed them to compete with 
other students in interscholastic competition.
  One of only four schools in the Nation and the first in Pennsylvania 
to have been honored in this respect, I am proud of the work done at 
Souderton Area High School to support and enhance the education and 
recreational development of all students.

                          ____________________



