

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 40 (Wednesday, March 7, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 40 (Wednesday, March 7, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1446]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
proceed to the en bloc consideration of the following nominations: 
Executive Calendar Nos. 695, 696, 716, 717, 718, and 719.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The clerk will report the nominations en bloc.
  The bill clerk read the nominations of McGregor W. Scott, of 
California, to be United States Attorney for the Eastern District of 
California for the term of four years; Gary G. Schofield, of Nevada, to 
be United States Marshal for the District of Nevada for the term of 
four years; Billy J. Williams, of Oregon, to be United States Attorney 
for the District of Oregon for the term of four years; Mark S. James, 
of Missouri, to be United States Marshal for the Western District of 
Missouri for the term of four years; Daniel C. Mosteller, of South 
Dakota, to be United States Marshal for the District of South Dakota 
for the term of four years; and Jesse Seroyer, Jr., of Alabama, to be 
United States Marshal for the Middle District of Alabama for the term 
of four years.
  Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to consider the nominations en bloc.
  Mr. McCONNELL. I ask unanimous consent that the Senate vote on the 
nominations en bloc with no intervening action or debate; that if 
confirmed, the motions to reconsider be considered made and laid upon 
the table en bloc; that the President be immediately notified of the 
Senate's action; that no further motions be in order; that any 
statements relating to the nominations be printed in the Record; and 
that the Senate then resume legislative session.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
  Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The question is, Will the Senate advise and consent to the Scott, 
Schofield, Williams, James, Mosteller, and Seroyer nominations en bloc?
  The nominations were confirmed en bloc.

                          ____________________



