

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 35 (Tuesday, February 27, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 35 (Tuesday, February 27, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H1269]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         REVEREND BILLY GRAHAM

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
North Carolina (Ms. Foxx) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I offer my deepest condolences to Reverend 
Billy Graham's children and grandchildren on this very sad occasion.
  Reverend Billy Graham will be remembered by millions of people for 
millions of reasons, which is a testament to the people he inspired. 
When I consider Reverend Graham's life and all of his many 
accomplishments, I think of his humble beginnings and his dedication to 
bringing people to Christ.
  Reverend Graham, North Carolina's favorite son, began as a farmer's 
son and was not born with the steadfast faith that we later observed. 
It was a faith he chose and that he dedicated himself to all of his 
life.
  Later, he would be called America's Pastor, as he counseled 
Presidents and the poor alike. What is remarkable is how Reverend 
Graham heard the call and made the choice to follow the Lord and to 
take His word farther and more rapidly than it had ever gone before.
  Mark 16:15 of the Good Book instructs us to, ``Go into all the world 
and preach the gospel to all creation.'' This is a charge that Reverend 
Graham took seriously and a charge which he spent a lifetime 
endeavoring to obey. This seemingly ordinary man went on to do 
extraordinary things because of his faith and because of his calling to 
follow the Lord.
  In Chronicles 16:9, we observe that ``for the eyes of the Lord move 
to and fro throughout the Earth that He may strongly support those 
whose heart is completely His.'' This scripture strikes true when we 
think of Reverend Graham's life and work. His heart was certainly 
filled with love for the Lord. Reverend Graham traveled the world 
preaching to the masses, but he did not crave frame or notoriety. Ever 
the humble servant, Reverend Graham craved the grace to bring others to 
Christ.
  Mr. Speaker, I am saddened that Reverend Graham is no longer with us, 
but I rejoice that he has joined the Lord, whom he loved so dearly. I 
am proud to join thousands of Americans in paying my last respects to 
Reverend Graham as his body lies in honor in the United States Capitol. 
This is only the fourth time in history that a civilian has earned this 
high honor and the esteem of a grateful nation, and this honor is 
richly deserved.
  Mr. Speaker, I hope that everyone here and those watching at home 
will remember all of Reverend Graham's many lessons and will let his 
life serve as a reminder to us all that ordinary people can accomplish 
extraordinary things if we put our trust in the Lord.

                          ____________________



