

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 49 (Wednesday, March 21, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 49 (Wednesday, March 21, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H1753]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        HONORING BERTEL VAN EEK

  (Mr. KILMER asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.)
  Mr. KILMER. Mr. Speaker, at the end of this month, something rather 
extraordinary will happen: Bertel Van Eek will turn 108 years old. She 
has been the embodiment of the American Dream and, in some respects, of 
the importance of the things that happen here.
  In the midst of debates here about immigration, she reminds us that 
we are a nation of immigrants. She came to this country as an immigrant 
after World War II. She was welcomed by the Statue of Liberty and by a 
country where she built an amazing life.
  In the midst of debates about retirement security, she reminds us 
that it is important to have the backs of our seniors. Her husband died 
in 1981, and her ability to live with dignity for the last 37 years has 
been closely tied to two of the most successful public policies in the 
history of this country: Medicare and Social Security.
  She was born on March 31, 1910--1910. America has had 19 Presidents 
over that timeframe. As someone who lived in Holland during World War 
II, she saw the capability and bravery of our military and its members.
  Imagine all that she has seen over the years. She is going to watch 
this speech over the internet on a mobile phone. Imagine that. She was 
born 17 years before movies had sound.
  But beyond that, her life has been filled with people who love her: a 
loving daughter who married a guy who calls her ``Mom,'' four great-
grandchildren who adore her and who are adorable, and three grandkids 
who consider her a hero.
  Mr. Speaker, I am proud to be one of those grandsons, and I am proud 
to stand here on the floor of the U.S. House and wish my Oma a happy 
108th birthday.

                          ____________________



