

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 46 (Thursday, March 15, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 46 (Thursday, March 15, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1768]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I have 7 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


                      Committee on Armed Services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, March 15, 2018, at 9:30 a.m. to 
conduct a hearing.


               Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

  The Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Thursday, March 15, 2018, at 10 
a.m. to conduct a hearing.


                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 14, 2018, at 10 a.m. to 
conduct a hearing entitled, ``Review of the FY 2019 State Department 
Budget.''


        The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, March 15, 2018, 
at 10 a.m. to conduct a hearing entitled ``Perspective on the 340B Drug 
Pricing Program.''


                       Committee on the Judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, March 15, 2018, at 9:30 a.m., to 
conduct a hearing.


                     Committee on Veterans' Affairs

  The Committee on Veterans' Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 14, 2018, at 10 a.m. to 
conduct a joint hearing.


                    Select Committee on Intelligence

  The Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 14, 2018, at 10 a.m. to 
conduct a hearing on nomination of Lieutenant General Paul M. Nakasone, 
to be Director of the National Security Agency, Department of Defense.

                          ____________________



