

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 7 (Thursday, January 11, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 7 (Thursday, January 11, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S166]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




             80TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE SHAWNEE PEAK SKI AREA

  Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize the 80th 
anniversary of the Shawnee Peak Ski Area in Bridgton, ME. Shawnee Peak 
is the oldest continually operated major ski facility in Maine and 
possesses natural beauty, which combines with the love of the outdoors 
and the strong sense of community of the region's residents.
  Originally called Pleasant Mountain Ski Area, the facility opened 
with a rope tow on January 23, 1938. That day of celebration was 
preceded by many years of hard work by Bridgton's Lions Club and 
Chamber of Commerce, Bridgton Academy, the Pleasant Mountain Ski Club, 
and the local Civilian Conservation Corps to plan, raise money, and 
clear trails. With Maine's Western Mountains providing spectacular 
views of the Lakes Region and Mount Washington, Pleasant Mountain soon 
began attracting skiers from throughout New England.
  Renamed Shawnee Peak in 1988, the ski area has long been a place of 
innovation, including the site of Maine's first T-bar and chairlift. 
Shawnee Peak pioneered night skiing and in the 1970s helped to lead the 
acrobatic freestyle skiing movement that is now a favorite event in the 
Winter Olympics. Shawnee Peak also is a leader in offering youth 
programs in skiing and snowboarding to encourage children to stay 
active and to challenge themselves.
  In 1994, Shawnee Peak was purchased by business leader and 
entrepreneur Chet Homer and his family. Echoing the conservation ethic 
that defines our State, Mr. Homer has stated he does not think of 
himself as owning the mountain, but rather of being its steward.
  For 80 years, Shawnee Peak Ski Area has strengthened Maine's skiing 
industry, spurred economic development in a rural region, and brought 
families and friends together in wholesome recreation. It is a pleasure 
to congratulate Chet Homer and his team for the accomplishments of this 
Maine family business and to wish them continued success in the years 
to come.

                          ____________________



