

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 9 (Tuesday, January 16, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 9 (Tuesday, January 16, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S173]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                                  FISA

  Mr. McCONNELL. Now, on another matter, later this afternoon the 
Senate will vote to advance reauthorization of title VII of the Foreign 
Intelligence Surveillance Act. This includes section 702, one of the 
most important tools that our warfighters and intelligence 
professionals use to wage the war on terror and to keep Americans safe.
  It allows the United States to collect communications from foreign 
terrorists who wish harm on America and our allies. To be clear, it 
does not permit the targeting of American citizens anywhere in the 
world. Let me repeat that. Section 702 does not allow the targeting of 
American citizens, nor does it permit the targeting of anyone of any 
nationality who is known to be located here in the United States. With 
respect to foreigners on foreign soil, 702 gives the men and women who 
keep us safe the vital tools they need to fulfill their missions.
  Five years ago, Congress reauthorized the title with overwhelming 
bipartisan support. It is imperative that we do so once again. The 
world remains dangerous. Al-Qaida, ISIL, and associated terror groups 
are still intent on harming our people and those working with us 
overseas.
  Yet with each day that passes since the Nation was attacked on 
September 11, 2001, it seems that concern over terrorism has waned. 
This is in part due to the success of our defense and intelligence 
community in preventing another major attack. They rely upon section 
702 to accomplish that mission.
  I look forward to renewing the bipartisan consensus on this issue and 
reauthorizing this important provision as the Senate votes later this 
week.

                          ____________________



