

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 6 (Wednesday, January 10, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 6 (Wednesday, January 10, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H112-H113]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      SERVING THE PEOPLE OF ALASKA

  (Mr. YOUNG of Alaska asked and was given permission to address the 
House for 1 minute.)
  Mr. YOUNG of Alaska. Mr. Speaker, first, let me thank the Speaker and 
the minority leader for their introductions.
  I have been in the House for 45 years, with nine Speakers and nine 
Presidents. I have been in this House with 2,000 Members who have left. 
I love this body.
  I can suggest one thing: My greatest honor has been being able to 
achieve results for my State. I am the only Congressman from the whole 
State of Alaska, and I love it. It is my responsibility to represent 
the State and this House as the single person to do the job that I have 
been asked to do.
  One of the things that I have enjoyed is the friendships. I don't 
think there is an enemy in the House. I worked across the aisle. Jimmy 
Oberstar and I never had an adversarial vote at any one time on the 
Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. Now, when George Miller 
was the minority member, we had a lot of arguments and a lot of 
disagreements, but we hunted together and we ate together.
  I believe in bipartisanship. I believe in this body to lead this 
Nation. Nine Presidents, the House has its job to do regardless of who 
the President is.
  I thank my wife, who is in the audience up there in the gallery. A 
man gets lucky usually once in his life. I got lucky twice. My past 
wife was with me for 46\1/2\ years. My new wife has been with me about 
8 years now. I want the State to pay her because she keeps me alive. 
And she likes what I do.
  I want to thank my colleagues. Being the dean will not change me. I 
will still holler, ``Vote.'' I will sometimes get out of line. But in 
doing so, remember,

[[Page H113]]

it comes from my heart, and my heart is in this House.

                          ____________________



