

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 14 (Sunday, January 21, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 14 (Sunday, January 21, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H609]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           HERE ARE THE FACTS

  (Ms. JAYAPAL asked and was given permission to address the House for 
1 minute and to revise and extend her remarks.)
  Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Speaker, here are the facts: the first shutdown in 
modern history when one party has controlled the House, the Senate, and 
the White House; the fifth Republican shutdown in 30 years; and four 
continuing resolutions since September.
  Four Republicans joined Democrats in voting ``no'' on the House bill 
last week because it is not a solution.
  Mr. Speaker, this Trump shutdown is no way to govern. Republicans had 
plenty of time to pass CHIP reauthorization, but instead, they want to 
use it for hostage taking. They have the will to act on the GOP tax 
scam to benefit corporations and the wealthiest, but not on pensions 
for working families.
  And they certainly had no interest in a solution for DREAMers, an 
issue that 87 percent of the American people agree on, and Republicans 
right here would vote with Democrats to pass a solution to.
  There are two bipartisan bills in the House to protect DREAMers and 
one in the Senate, but this isn't about real solutions. Republicans 
just want to continue to use immigrants as a scapegoat and end legal 
immigration as we know it.
  Mr. Speaker, as an immigrant myself, I am tired of being called the 
worst of the worst. I am tired of hearing Mexicans be called rapists or 
Africans called vulgarities that I cannot even repeat on this floor.
  Mr. Speaker, let's end the shutdown now with real solutions for the 
American people.
  Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to bring up H.R. 4872, the End 
the Shutdown Act of 2018, a continuing resolution that would 
immediately reopen the government through Tuesday while negotiations 
continue on a budget agreement that adheres to parity and on other 
critical issues.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair previously advised, that 
request cannot be entertained absent appropriate clearance.

                          ____________________



