

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 6 (Wednesday, January 10, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 6 (Wednesday, January 10, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S138-S139]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 819

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Maryland

[[Page S139]]

(Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 819, a bill to amend the 
Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 to provide more effective remedies to 
victims of discrimination in the payment of wages on the basis of sex, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 1006

  At the request of Mr. Merkley, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1006, a bill to prohibit 
discrimination on the basis of sex, gender identity, and sexual 
orientation, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1124

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1124, a bill to 
grant the Director of the United States Marshals Service authority to 
appoint criminal investigators in the excepted service.


                                S. 1218

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from Idaho 
(Mr. Crapo) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1218, a bill to promote 
Federal employment for veterans, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1358

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Moran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1358, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for the treatment of certain 
direct primary care service arrangements and periodic provider fees.


                                S. 1588

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1588, a bill to secure 
Federal voting rights of persons when released from incarceration.


                                S. 1650

  At the request of Ms. Hirono, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1650, a bill to 
authorize the Secretary of Health and Human Services to award grants to 
support the access of marginalized youth to sexual health services, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 1693

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Carper) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1693, a bill to amend the 
Communications Act of 1934 to clarify that section 230 of that Act does 
not prohibit the enforcement against providers and users of interactive 
computer services of Federal and State criminal and civil law relating 
to sex trafficking.


                                S. 1774

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Mississippi 
(Mr. Cochran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1774, a bill to provide 
protections for workers with respect to their right to select or 
refrain from selecting representation by a labor organization.


                                S. 1873

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Ms. Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1873, a bill to require 
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to carry out a program to establish 
peer specialists in patient aligned care teams at medical centers of 
the Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2007

  At the request of Mr. Flake, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2007, a bill to amend 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to increase the exclusion for 
educational assistance programs.


                                S. 2186

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2186, a bill 
to modernize laws and policies, and eliminate discrimination, with 
respect to people living with HIV/AIDS, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2274

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2274, a bill to provide for 
the compensation of Federal employees affected by lapses in 
appropriations.


                              S. RES. 363

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 363, a resolution 
expressing profound concern about the growing political, humanitarian, 
and economic crisis in Venezuela and the widespread human rights abuses 
perpetrated by the Government of Venezuela.


                              S. RES. 367

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the names of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cornyn) and the Senator from Wyoming (Mr. Barrasso) were added as 
cosponsors of S. Res. 367, a resolution condemning the Government of 
Iran for its violence against demonstrators and calling for peaceful 
resolution to the concerns of the citizens of Iran.


                              S. RES. 368

  At the request of Mr. Corker, the names of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan), the Senator from Illinois (Mr. Durbin), the 
Senator from Virginia (Mr. Warner), the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. 
Hirono) and the Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) were added as 
cosponsors of S. Res. 368, a resolution supporting the right of all 
Iranian citizens to have their voices heard.
  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren), the Senator from New York (Mr. Schumer) and 
the Senator from North Carolina (Mr. Tillis) were added as cosponsors 
of S. Res. 368, supra.

                          ____________________



