

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 48 (Tuesday, March 20, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 48 (Tuesday, March 20, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1800]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         OMNIBUS APPROPRIATIONS

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, on a final matter, later this week, the 
Senate will consider an omnibus spending package to address a number of 
critical priorities, from rebuilding America's infrastructure to 
fighting the opioid epidemic. In particular, building on the funding 
agreement passed in February, the measure will deliver the resources 
and certainty that America's military deserves. To be specific, this 
legislation will provide the largest year-on-year increase in defense 
funding in 15 years. After years of disproportionate cuts to our armed 
services, Congress has begun to provide adequate resources to put an 
end to the harmful decline in combat readiness, to fulfill our 
commitments to American families who sacrifice through service--many of 
them in my home State of Kentucky.
  For our men and women in uniform, this means a well-deserved pay 
raise. For our veterans back home, it means increased oversight and 
modernization in the Veterans' Administration care system, thanks to a 
record level of VA funding. Our warriors on the frontline deserve to be 
trained to the highest standards, as do the units that replace them. 
Now our commanders can work to restore combat readiness--and not a 
moment too soon. Threats around the world are only growing in number 
and intensity. By strengthening our investment in missile defense, by 
funding new weapons systems, by scaling up shipbuilding and aircraft 
procurement, and by investing in our all-volunteer servicemembers, we 
will send a strong message to our allies and our foes alike that 
America's military is regaining dominance.
  This week, my colleagues will have the opportunity to follow through 
and address the pressing needs of the defense community. I hope each of 
them will join me in voting to swiftly pass the omnibus, thus giving 
our Armed Forces the resources they need and deserve.
  I yield the floor.

                          ____________________



