

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 5 (Tuesday, January 9, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 5 (Tuesday, January 9, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S111]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I have 5 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


            Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs

  The Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, January 09, 2018, at 
10 a.m. to conduct a hearing entitled ``Combating Money Laundering and 
other forms of illicit Finance: Opportunities to reform and strengthen 
BSA Enforcement.''


                          Committee on Finance

  The Committee on Finance is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Tuesday, January 09, 2018, at 10 a.m. to consider the 
nomination of Alex Michael Azar II, of Indiana, to be Secretary of 
Health and Human Services.


          Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, January 09, 2018, 
at 10 a.m. to conduct a hearing entitled ``The Opioid Crisis: An 
Examination of How We Got Here and How We Move Forward.''


                    Select Committee on Intelligence

  The Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, January 09, 2018, at 2:30 p.m. to 
hold a closed briefing.


   Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere, Transnational Crime, Civilian 
      Security, Democracy, Humans Rights and Global Women's Issues

  The Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere, Transnational Crime, Civilian 
Security, Democracy, Humans Rights and Global Women's Issues of the 
Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the session 
of the Senate on Tuesday, January 09, 2018, at 10 a.m. to hold a 
hearing entitled ``Attacks on U.S. Diplomats in Cuba: Response and 
Oversight.''

                          ____________________



