

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 35 (Tuesday, February 27, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 35 (Tuesday, February 27, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H1272]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   HONORING THE LIFE OF AUDREY TUCKER

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Curbelo of Florida). The Chair 
recognizes the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Fitzpatrick) for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of 
Audrey Tucker of Upper Makefield in Bucks County, Pennsylvania. A 
committed public servant, Audrey, the CEO of the Family Service 
Association of Bucks County, passed away at 73 last week.
  Joining Family Service as a social worker in 1978 and rising to 
become the organization's CEO in 1987, Audrey served as the face of 
Family Service for four decades. Audrey was a visionary leader credited 
with growing the organization into an entity that offered mental health 
services, helped the homeless, offered drug and alcohol treatment, and 
helped local families.
  Her friends and colleagues of Family Service said it best: ``Family 
Service has suffered a huge loss. Audrey was the heart and face of 
Family Service for four decades. But she built a strong team that will 
continue to carry out her vision of a community where anyone can 
achieve his or her full potential.''
  Our community will feel Audrey's loss tremendously, but it is clear 
to all that we are a better community for having had her in our 
community, and her important work will continue.


              Recognizing Bucks County GirlSTEM Conference

  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the Bucks 
County GirlSTEM Conference.
  The 2017 conference was attended by over 800 girls in grades 6 
through 10 and focused on inspiring young women in our region to pursue 
careers in science, technology, engineering, and math.
  The 2018 conference, scheduled for this May, is expected to be even 
larger. Attendees learn from professional women working in STEM fields, 
including agriculture, banking, physics, nursing, marine biology, real 
estate, engineering, app design, and more.
  And the impact of this program is already clear in our community. As 
a result of attending GirlSTEM 2017, 95 percent of girls said they felt 
more motivated to do well in school; 96 percent felt more engaged in 
their own learning; and 93 percent said GirlSTEM helped them plan 
ahead, make career choices, and feel optimistic about their future.
  As our economy continues to evolve, I commend projects like Bucks 
County GirlSTEM Conference for the important work they play in 
educating and exciting the next generation of female leaders. These 
young women are the future leaders of our Nation.

                          ____________________



