

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 58 (Wednesday, April 11, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 58 (Wednesday, April 11, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H3130]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               CONGRATULATING PLEASANT VALLEY HIGH SCHOOL

  (Mr. LaMALFA asked and was given permission to address the House for 
1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. LaMALFA. Madam Speaker, tonight I rise to congratulate Pleasant 
Valley High School for sending both the boys and girls basketball teams 
to the State of California championship games for their division.
  After incredibly successful seasons by both the girls and boys teams, 
I am very proud to say that both programs made it all the way to the 
finals played at the Golden 1 Center in Sacramento, home of the 
Sacramento Kings NBA team.
  Though the two games had differing results, to be playing in the 
final game of the season in the State in your division while the rest 
of your opponents are home at spring break is plenty to be proud of. It 
says a lot about the students and the head coaches and their families 
on both teams.
  The last time the Pleasant Valley girls made it to the State 
championship was 1985. This is the first trip for the boys to the State 
championship.
  What these young men and women both did on the basketball courts this 
year was remarkable--even inspiring Pleasant Valley alum and Green Bay 
Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers to contribute to their trip.
  While the girls did lose a hard-fought contest, the boys pulled it 
out and won a 70-65 thriller in which they never trailed in the game.
  Congratulations to the boys team on their first-ever State 
championship and to the girls team for again making another trip to the 
State finals. Indeed, a truly remarkable, outstanding season for 
Pleasant Valley High School for the boys and girls team. They have much 
to be proud of.

                          ____________________



