

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 149 (Thursday, September 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 149 (Thursday, September 14, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S5742]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    RECOGNIZING PJM INTERCONNECTION

 Mr. TOOMEY. Mr. President, today I recognize the 90th 
anniversary of PJM Interconnection, which is the Nation's largest 
competitive wholesale electricity market.
  Headquartered in Valley Forge, PA, PJM performs the critical function 
of supplying electricity to more than 65 million customers in 13 
Midwestern, Mid-Atlantic, and Southern States and the District of 
Columbia.
  PJM began in 1927 when three electric utilities joined together to 
connect their systems and form Pennsylvania-New Jersey Interconnection, 
the world's first continuing power pool. Additional utilities joined 
the coalition over the following decades, and in 1956, it became known 
as Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Maryland--PJM--Interconnection, the name 
used today. Around the same time, PJM expanded its use of new 
technology by installing its first online computer to control electric 
generation and later to monitor grid operations in real time, which led 
to improved reliability and better customer service.
  PJM is also celebrating its 20th anniversary as an independent system 
operator, ISO. In 1997, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, FERC, 
approved PJM as the Nation's first fully functioning ISO, which 
operates but does not own electric transmission systems. Five years 
later, PJM became the first regional transmission organization in the 
country when FERC encouraged the formation of these entities to 
increase access to competitive wholesale energy markets. Over the past 
two decades, PJM has continued its focus on innovation and customer 
service by expanding utility membership, developing generating 
capacity, and diversifying its energy portfolio to include coal, 
natural gas, and nuclear.
  In addition, PJM is recognized by its peers as a leader in the 
competitive wholesale electricity sector. The firm continues to focus 
on improving energy storage, grid technology, and demand response. PJM 
first provided wholesale electricity in 1927, and I am confident that 
PJM will continue its commitment to affordability, reliability, and 
customer service for the foreseeable future.

                          ____________________



