

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 193 (Tuesday, November 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 193 (Tuesday, November 28, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H9440-H9441]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               CONGRATULATING ST. CROIX NATIVE TIM DUNCAN

  (Ms. PLASKETT asked and was given permission to address the House for 
1 minute and to revise and extend her remarks.)
  Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate St. Croix 
native Tim Duncan on his induction to the Collegiate Basketball Hall of 
Fame.
  In 1989, Tim was training to be an Olympic swimmer when Hurricane 
Hugo struck the Virgin Islands, destroying all of the Olympic-size 
swimming pools. With no place left on the island to train, he turned 
his focus to basketball.
  At Wake Forest, he helped lead the team to four NCAA tournaments, was 
named the National Association of Basketball Coaches Player of the Year 
three times, the ACC Player of the Year twice, and the National Player 
of the Year in 1997.

[[Page H9441]]

  Tim was drafted as the number one pick to the Spurs, where he served 
as a leader on and off the court for 19 years.
  Tim Duncan has not forgotten his home, and after two back-to-back 
Category 5 hurricanes, he helped to contribute 20,000-plus pounds of 
food and donated millions of dollars through his Tim Duncan Foundation.

  Tim exemplifies the idea of making a way out of no way. Hurricane 
Hugo did not defeat him, just as Hurricanes Maria and Irma will not 
defeat the U.S. Virgin Islands.
  I want to use this time to thank him and, on Giving Tuesday, thank 
all of the others who have contributed in the hurricane relief: My 
Brothers Workshop, Family Resource Center, Community Foundation of the 
Virgin Islands, St. Croix Foundation, Virgin Islands ASAP Relief Group, 
Bloomberg Philanthropies, Love 4 Love City, Operation Rebuild, Jody 
Olson, VI-R3, Tony Rosario, USVI Boxing, Operation Rebuild Virgin 
Islands, and, of course, all the first responders and all the Virgin 
Islanders who are staying V.I. strong.

                          ____________________



