

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 202 (Tuesday, December 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 202 (Tuesday, December 12, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7977-S7978]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I have 9 request for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to Rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


               Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

  The Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, December 12, 2017, at 10 
a.m. in room SD-366 to consider the following nominations: Linda 
Capuano, of Texas, to be Administrator of the Energy Information 
Administration, Department of Energy, and Timothy R. Petty, of Indiana, 
to be an Assistant Secretary of the Interior.


               Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

  The Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, December 12, 2017, at 10 
a.m. in room SD-366 to conduct a hearing.


          Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, December 12, 2017, 
at 10 a.m. in room SD-430 to conduct a hearing entitled ``The Cost of 
Prescription Drugs: An Examination of the National Academies of 
Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine Report ``Making Medicines 
Affordable: A National Imperative'.


                       Committee on the Judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, December 12, 2017, at 10 a.m. to 
conduct a hearing entitled ``Oversight of the Ensuring Patient Access 
and Effective Drug Enforcement Act''.


                    Select Committee on Intelligence

  The Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, December 12, 2017, at 2:30 p.m. in 
room SH-219 to conduct a closed hearing.


Subcommittee on Communication, Technology, Innovation, and the Internet

  The Subcommittee on Communication, Technology, Innovation, and the 
Internet of the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, 
December 12, 2017, at 10 a.m. to conduct a hearing entitled ``Digital 
Decision-Making: the Building Blocks of the Machine Learning and 
Artificial Intelligence''


       Subcommittee Ocean, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and Coast Guard

  The Subcommittee Ocean, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and Coast Guard of the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, December 12, 2017, at 
2:30 p.m. in room SR-253 to conduct a hearing entitled ``National Ocean 
Policy: Stakeholder Perspectives''.


        Subcommittee on Europe and Regional Security Cooperation

  The Subcommittee on Europe and Regional Security Cooperation of the 
Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the session 
of the Senate on Tuesday, December 12,

[[Page S7978]]

2017, at 10 a.m. in room SR-253 to conduct a hearing entitled 
``European Energy Security: U.S. Interests and Coercive Russian 
Diplomacy''.


            Subcommittee on Africa and Global Health Policy

  The Subcommittee on Africa and Global Health Policy of the Committee 
on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the session of the 
Senate on Tuesday, December 12, 2017, at 2 p.m. to conduct a hearing 
entitled ``The Future of Zimbabwe''.

                          ____________________



