

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 171 (Tuesday, October 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 171 (Tuesday, October 24, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H8096]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




         MOMENT OF SILENCE FOR VICTIMS OF CALIFORNIA WILDFIRES

  (Mr. THOMPSON of California asked and was given permission to address 
the House for 1 minute.)
  Mr. THOMPSON of California. Mr. Speaker, the worst fires in the 
history of California have devastated nearly 300,000 acres, destroyed 
some 8,000 homes, caused billions of dollars in damage, burned to the 
ground many businesses, and, most sadly, taken the lives of 42 people--
and that number may very well rise.
  These fires were like no other, propelled by winds that reached 
speeds of over 70 miles per hour. The worst of the fires were in my 
district. They moved so fast, burning at times 200 feet per second. 
That is three football fields every 30 seconds.
  People had little time to escape their burning homes. They fled with 
only the clothes on their back and, in some cases, with their homes 
already in flames.
  The most covered area on the news is a neighborhood in my district in 
Santa Rosa called Coffey Park. There, alone, the entire neighborhood, 
some 1,300 homes, were burned to the ground. The winds were so high 
that they pushed the blaze across eight lanes of freeway and over two 
frontage roads to destroy the homes and lives of those 1,300 families.
  Eleven thousand firefighters, thousands of law enforcement and 
National Guard soldiers put their lives on the line to stop the raging 
inferno and protect Californians in the line of the fire. Some of those 
first responders lost their own homes, but they worked 24/7 to help 
others. The actions of civilian heroes and heroines saved an untold 
number of lives.
  The fallout from this disaster will be felt for years, if not 
decades. You can't just rebuild 8,000 homes and entire neighborhoods 
overnight.
  My colleagues and I from California appreciate all of your words of 
comfort and offers to help, and the people hurt by this monster fire 
will need all of our help.
  Mr. Speaker, I ask that the House now observe a moment of silence for 
those who lost their lives in this terrifying fire and to show our 
commitment to help rebuild the lives of the many thousands of people 
who have lost everything.

                          ____________________



