

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 209 (Thursday, December 21, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 209 (Thursday, December 21, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S8243]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





                         NOMINATIONS DISCHARGED

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the 
Environment and Public Works Committee be discharged from consideration 
of and the Senate proceed to the en bloc consideration of the following 
nominations: PN1035, PN1036, PN1037, PN1038, and PN1172.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The clerk will report the nominations en bloc.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read the nominations of 
Kenneth E. Allen, of Kentucky, to be a Member of the Board of Directors 
of the Tennessee Valley Authority for a term expiring May 18, 2021; 
A.D. Frazier, of Georgia, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of 
the Tennessee Valley Authority for a term expiring May 18, 2022; 
Jeffrey Smith, of Tennessee, to be a Member of the Board of Directors 
of the Tennessee Valley Authority for a term expiring May 18, 2022; 
James R. Thompson III, of Alabama, to be a Member of the Board of 
Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority for a term expiring May 18, 
2021; and Christopher Caldwell, of Arkansas, to be Federal 
Cochairperson, Delta Regional Authority.
  Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to consider the nominations en bloc.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
vote on the nominations en bloc with no intervening action or debate; 
that if confirmed, the motions to reconsider be considered made and 
laid upon the table en bloc; that the President be immediately notified 
of the Senate's action; that no further motions be in order, and that 
any statements relating to the nominations be printed in the Record.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The question is, Will the Senate advise and consent to the Allen, 
Frazier, Smith, Thompson, and Caldwell nominations en bloc?
  The nominations were confirmed en bloc.

                          ____________________



