

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 170 (Monday, October 23, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 170 (Monday, October 23, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6713]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    TRIBUTE TO DR. AKIL E. ROSS, SR.

 Mr. SCOTT. Madam President, I would like to recognize and 
congratulate Dr. Akil Ross, of Chapin High School, who has been chosen 
as the National Principal of the Year by the National Association of 
Secondary School Principals. His nomination is an honor for South 
Carolina. After graduating from School Without Walls Senior High School 
in Washington, DC, Akil E. Ross, Sr., studied political science and 
played football for Duke University. He graduated in 2002 with his B.A. 
in political science and minoring in history and education. In 2005, he 
obtained his M.Ed. in secondary educational administration from the 
University of South Carolina and joined Chapin High School as an 
assistant principal in July of 2005. After 5 years as an assistant 
principal, he was named principal in July of 2010. In July of 2012, he 
completed his doctorate degree in curriculum studies from the 
University of South Carolina.
  Chapin High School has received many awards and recognitions under 
Dr. Ross, such as Palmetto's Finest, national rankings in academics, 12 
State championships in athletics, and 3 State championships in marching 
band. In September, Dr. Ross was named the 2017 South Carolina 
Secondary Principal of the Year before being selected as the National 
Principal of the Year. Dr. Ross is an extraordinary leader who has 
truly succeeded in providing high-quality learning opportunities for 
his South Carolina students, whom are lucky to be under his care. 
Congratulations, Dr. Ross.

                          ____________________



