

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 172 (Wednesday, October 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 172 (Wednesday, October 25, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6817]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 109

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 109, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for coverage 
under the Medicare program of pharmacist services.


                                 S. 194

  At the request of Mr. Whitehouse, the name of the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 194, a bill to 
amend the Public Health Service Act to establish a public health 
insurance option, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 292

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the names of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mrs. Fischer) and the Senator from Minnesota (Mr. Franken) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 292, a bill to maximize discovery, and accelerate 
development and availability, of promising childhood cancer treatments, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 301

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) was added as a cosponsor of S. 301, a bill to amend 
the Public Health Service Act to prohibit governmental discrimination 
against providers of health services that are not involved in abortion.


                                 S. 497

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Mr. Johnson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 497, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for Medicare 
coverage of certain lymphedema compression treatment items as items of 
durable medical equipment.


                                 S. 989

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 989, a bill to 
amend the Public Health Service Act to provide for the participation of 
pediatric subspecialists in the National Health Service Corps program, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 1136

  At the request of Ms. Hirono, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1136, a bill to improve the 
structure of the Federal Pell Grant program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1161

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1161, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to eliminate copayments by the 
Department of Veterans Affairs for medicines relating to preventative 
health services, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1361

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1361, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to allow physician 
assistants, nurse practitioners, and clinical nurse specialists to 
supervise cardiac, intensive cardiac, and pulmonary rehabilitation 
programs.


                                S. 1503

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1503, a bill to require the 
Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in recognition of the 60th 
anniversary of the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame.


                                S. 1674

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1674, a bill to provide 
grants for the repair, renovation, and construction of public 
elementary schools and secondary schools, to establish a school 
infrastructure bond program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1753

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1753, a bill to amend the 
S.A.F.E. Mortgage Licensing Act of 2008 to provide a temporary license 
for loan originators transitioning between employers, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1790

  At the request of Mr. Burr, the name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1790, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to improve college savings under section 
529 programs, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1827

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. 
Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1827, a bill to extend funding 
for the Children's Health Insurance Program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1870

  At the request of Mr. Hoeven, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Ms. Murkowski) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1870, a bill to amend 
the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 to secure urgent resources vital to 
Indian victims of crime, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1899

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the names of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) and the Senator from Mississippi (Mr. Cochran) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1899, a bill to reauthorize and extend 
funding for community health centers and the National Health Service 
Corps.


                                S. 1942

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Ms. Murkowski) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1942, a bill to direct 
the Attorney General to review, revise, and develop law enforcement and 
justice protocols appropriate to address missing and murdered Indians, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 1953

  At the request of Mr. Hoeven, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Ms. Murkowski) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1953, a bill to amend 
the Tribal Law and Order Act of 2010 and the Indian Law Enforcement 
Reform Act to provide for advancements in public safety services to 
Indian communities, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1967

  At the request of Mr. Cotton, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1967, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide additional exemptions to the 
individual mandate, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1979

  At the request of Mr. Murphy, the name of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Udall) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1979, a bill to block the 
implementation of certain presidential actions that restrict 
individuals from certain countries from entering the United States.


                                S. 1997

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1997, a bill to amend the 
Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 to protect privacy 
rights, and for other purposes.


                              S. RES. 250

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 250, a 
resolution condemning horrific acts of violence against Burma's 
Rohingya population and calling on Aung San Suu Kyi to play an active 
role in ending this humanitarian tragedy.


                              S. RES. 297

  At the request of Mr. Franken, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Ms. Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 297, a resolution 
supporting Lights On Afterschool, a national celebration of afterschool 
programs held on October 26, 2017.

                          ____________________



