

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 158 (Tuesday, October 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 158 (Tuesday, October 3, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H7731]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   VIRGIN ISLANDERS ARE AMERICANS TOO

  (Ms. PLASKETT asked and was given permission to address the House for 
1 minute and to revise and extend her remarks.)
  Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, Hurricanes Irma and Maria have wreaked 
havoc on the U.S. Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico, and numerous Caribbean 
nations. Although the full extent of the two hurricanes' impact has yet 
to be assessed, it is clear that the damage from these storms is 
unparalleled.
  The people of the Virgin Islands have lost their homes and 
possessions. Business has been lost, along with hospitals, schools, and 
utility systems.
  In the coming months, I ask that all my colleagues on both sides of 
the aisle approve the full amount of funding and support needed for 
short- and long-term relief.
  For example, tomorrow, the Energy and Commerce Committee will 
consider legislation to extend the Children's Health Insurance Program 
for 5 years. I ask my colleagues to remember the people and children of 
the Virgin Islands.
  Just over one-third of the children of the Virgin Islands lived below 
the poverty level even prior to Hurricanes Irma and Maria. After the 
hurricanes, our antipoverty needs will grow exponentially.

  We need Medicaid and CHIP provisions to provide the Virgin Islands 
with additional funding and higher rates of Federal matching funds so 
that poor Americans and children in the Virgin Islands can remain 
covered. This, in addition to further changes to Federal program 
requirements, will help the Virgin Islands with the resources it needs 
to build.
  So I urge my colleagues to please remember that Virgin Islanders are 
Americans too, just the same as constituents elsewhere across the 
country.

                          ____________________



