

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 198 (Tuesday, December 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 198 (Tuesday, December 5, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9625]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




             RECOGNIZING CONWELL-EGAN CATHOLIC HIGH SCHOOL

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Fitzpatrick) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, today I recognize Conwell-Egan Catholic 
High School and the $5 million contribution they received to help 
educate the next generation of students in Bucks County. This gift, in 
recognition of the school's continued success, was donated by a 1972 
graduate who wanted to thank his teachers for all they did to help 
shape his life.
  The benefactor, Mr. Tom Lynch, said he gave the gift because 
``anything is possible when you get a good education.'' This quote 
rings true in the ears of every American. The opportunity to learn from 
a young age is a critical experience. Continued support for our 
teachers and our schools is of the utmost importance.
  With this donation, Conwell-Egan plans to set a significant amount 
aside for scholarships and tuition assistance for families in need in 
our area. Generous contributions like these allow our educational 
institutions to grow and to offer greater support to our communities.
  I congratulate Conwell-Egan, and we all thank Mr. Lynch for 
supporting such a great institution.


            Recognizing Palisades High School Football Team

  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the players, 
coaches, and staff of the Palisades High School football team and to 
congratulate them on an incredible season. With their consistent 
displays of grit and tenacity, the Palisades Pirates should be proud of 
what they accomplished: a 13-1 season and the best record in Palisades 
football history.
  Although their season ended with a tough loss in the playoffs, the 
Palisades Pirates football team should hold their heads high. They have 
worked hard, and they have made their community proud.
  To the fans, friends, and families who have supported Palisades, we 
offer our congratulations. To all those who work with and support 
organized youth sports in our district, we offer our thanks. To the 
young student athletes on the Palisades football team, I say: Well 
done. I hope that you take the lessons of cooperation and determination 
that you have learned on the field with you when you step off the 
field. Our community is very proud of you.

                          ____________________



