

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 164 (Thursday, October 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 164 (Thursday, October 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H8015-H8016]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                             UNIFIED SPAIN

  (Mr. FRANCIS ROONEY of Florida asked and was given permission to 
address the House for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. FRANCIS ROONEY of Florida. Madam Speaker, I rise today as a 
member of the Spain Caucus to discuss why a unified Spain is both 
legally, culturally, and economically justified, and how it best serves 
United States foreign policy interests.
  First, the illegal Catalan independence referendum was held in 
violation of the Spanish constitution and in defiance of the federal 
government. Catalunya, as an autonomous region within Spain, enjoys 
many rights and privileges under the Spanish constitution, but self-
determination is clearly not one of them.
  The historical and cultural ties between Spain and Catalunya are 
strong. Spain and Catalunya have a shared history, being united since 
the reign of Ferdinand and Isabel over 500 years ago, and later, under 
the governance of the Kingdom of Aragon, similar to how

[[Page H8016]]

it is a part of the Kingdom of Spain today.
  Because of this history, Catalunya has a pluralistic society, with a 
mix of Spaniards and Catalans, and where both cultures' languages are 
regularly spoken.
  Lastly, the deep economic ties Catalunya shares with Spain are 
evidence that Spain should be united. Catalunya relies heavily on 
Madrid for its financial sector, infrastructure, and its social 
security deficit.
  A united Spain is a friend of the United States. A strong, united 
Spain has been a reliable ally in fighting the spread of Islamic 
extremism. Our relationship with Spain is invaluable to our foreign 
policy interests, and we need to speak out on behalf of a unified 
Spain.

                          ____________________



