

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 197 (Monday, December 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 197 (Monday, December 4, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7820]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 115

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cornyn) was added as a cosponsor of S. 115, a bill to amend title 38, 
United States Code, to authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to 
provide for an operation on a live donor for purposes of conducting a 
transplant procedure for a veteran, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 856

  At the request of Mrs. McCaskill, the name of the Senator from 
Montana (Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 856, a bill to 
amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 and the Jeanne Clery Disclosure 
of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act to combat 
campus sexual assault, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1295

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1295, a bill to 
amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 to provide students with 
disabilities and their families with access to critical information 
needed to select the right college and succeed once enrolled.


                                S. 1901

  At the request of Mr. Gardner, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Young) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1901, a bill to require 
global economic and political pressure to support diplomatic 
denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula, including through the 
imposition of sanctions with respect to the Government of the 
Democratic People's Republic of Korea and any enablers of the 
activities of that Government, and to reauthorize the North Korean 
Human Rights Act of 2004, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2070

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2070, a bill to amend 
the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994, to 
reauthorize the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program, and 
to promote initiatives that will reduce the risk of injury and death 
relating to the wandering characteristics of some children with autism.


                                S. 2114

  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) and the Senator from Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 2114, a bill to award a Congressional 
Gold Medal to the 5307th Composite Unit (Provisional), commonly known 
as ``Merrill's Marauders'', in recognition of their bravery and 
outstanding service in the jungles of Burma during World War II.

                          ____________________



