

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 195 (Thursday, November 30, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 195 (Thursday, November 30, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H9525-H9526]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                RHONEYMEADE SCULPTURE GARDEN & ARBORETUM

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Thompson) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, earlier this week, I had 
the opportunity to visit a true gem in Centre County, Pennsylvania: 
Rhoneymeade.
  Rhoneymeade is a sculpture garden and arboretum farm, a historical 
site located between the Nittany and Tussey Mountains. The Rhone family 
owned this property for four generations, from 1794 to 1937. The land 
was settled in 1794 when Michael Rhone purchased the farmland from the 
Straub family, who received a grant of the land from the Penn family.
  Third-generation Leonard Rhone was an important leader in the Grange 
movement in Pennsylvania. Many of the ideas for the movement were 
developed in the historic 1853 farmhouse that still sits on the 
property today.
  Leonard Rhone founded the Grange Fair in 1874, the annual fair and 
camping event that remains a staple in the region. The fair is a proud 
Centre County tradition, much like Rhoneymeade. Rhoneymeade's slogan 
is: ``Where art and nature meet.''
  That rings true, thanks to the works of Dr. Richard Morgan, a retired 
Penn State professor who purchased the property in 1984. Over several 
years, he transformed the grounds into an arboretum and sculpture 
garden. Dr. Morgan fell in love with Rhoneymeade: its historic home, 
views of Penns Valley, some of the oldest trees in central 
Pennsylvania. He restored the house on the property and landscaped the 
six surrounding acres. In 1985, the house was placed on the National 
Register of Historic Places.
  In 1989, Dr. Morgan established Rhoneymeade as a private foundation 
with a mission to ``preserve our farm, fields, and forest; to create an 
oasis of beauty, both natural and man-made; and to share this with all 
who wish to come.''
  Rhoneymeade has shared with the community and was shared with the 
community. In 1992, Dr. Morgan opened the property to visitors on 
select weekends. Since Dr. Morgan's death in 2015, Rhoneymeade is 
working towards becoming a public nonprofit organization.
  Mr. Speaker, the property has thoroughly been cared for for more than 
200 years, the 150 acres of breathtaking

[[Page H9526]]

land and its history that has been kept alive by the families who have 
owned it and, now, by all those who visit it.

                          ____________________



