

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 168 (Wednesday, October 18, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 168 (Wednesday, October 18, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6532-S6533]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                         REMEMBERING DON CARANO

 Mr. HELLER. Mr. President, today I wish to memorialize Don 
Carano, one of northern Nevada's most influential figures, a great 
business leader, and a man I am privileged to have called a friend. Don 
recently passed away peacefully at the age of 85.

[[Page S6533]]

  My sincerest condolences go out to his family, friends, and loved 
ones. All of northern Nevada mourns the loss of Mr. Carano, who helped 
make Reno a better place to live and work, not only for his employees, 
but for the entire community.
  Throughout his life, Mr. Carano was a caring, giving man who charted 
his own path as an entrepreneur. Some of his businesses include 
Eldorado Resorts, Ferrari-Carano Vineyards and Winery, and the McDonald 
Carano law firm. Mr. Carano was also instrumental in the construction 
of the National Bowling Stadium and the Reno Events Center in downtown 
Reno.
  Born in Reno, Mr. Carano went to Southside Elementary School, 
Billinghurst Junior High School, and Reno High School before earning 
his college degree and serving in the U.S. Army for 2 years as an 
officer. Thereafter, Mr. Carano completed law school at the University 
of San Francisco and began his law practice in Reno. In 1973, he opened 
the Eldorado Hotel Casino, the first major casino to open on Virginia 
Street north of the railroad tracks, which changed the profile of 
gaming in northern Nevada.
  Mr. Carano's many contributions and honors include the International 
Gaming and Wagering Business Hall of Fame, Nevada Food and Beverage 
Directors Association Man of the Year awards, the American Lung 
Association Distinguished Community Service Award, Hotelier of the Year 
Award, ``Knight in the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic'' by the 
Consul General of Italy, University of San Francisco Law School's 
Alumnus of the Year, International Restaurant and Hospitality Rating 
Bureau's Lifetime Achievement Award, the WIBC Gladys M. Banker 
Friendship Award, and many more. Just this year, Mr. Carano was 
recognized as a ``Distinguished Nevadan'' by the University of Nevada, 
Reno.
  As Nevada's senior Senator, I thank Mr. Carano and his family for 
their decades of work in helping make Reno the thriving, booming, 
biggest little city that it is today. I ask all of my colleagues to 
join me in memorializing Mr. Carano and the legacy he leaves behind. 
Lynne and my family give our deepest sympathies to his wife, Rhonda, 
his five children Gary, Gene, Glenn, Gregg, and Cindy, 11 
grandchildren, and 6 great-grandchildren as they cope with this great 
loss.

                          ____________________



