

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 175 (Monday, October 30, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 175 (Monday, October 30, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6873]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 REMEMBERING MARTHA LEE ``MARTY'' ORWIG

 Mr. CRAPO. Mr. President, my colleague Senator Jim Risch joins 
me today in honoring Martha Lee ``Marty,'' Orwig who shined so brightly 
in our world and will be greatly missed.
  Marty had endearing monikers, including ``The Rocket'' and ``Aunt 
Marty,'' that reflect how deeply she touched many lives and left a 
lasting impression of sincerity, enthusiasm, joyfulness, spirited know-
how, and a profound commitment to the Lord and assisting others. In 
learning of her passing, others have shared their impressions of Marty 
that include ``special lady,'' ``great lady,'' ``a delight to work with 
and simply to know as a person,'' ``passionate about everything she 
involved herself with,'' ``feisty, spirited, and never backed down from 
a challenge,'' and ``gone too soon.'' Marty modeled dedication and 
excellence. Her service as founder and leader of the North American 
Moose Foundation, through which she mentored Mackay High School 
students, is no doubt leaving an imprint of her committed example in 
the lives of generations of young leaders.
  While Marty was deeply rooted in Sun Valley, her home base for the 
past more than 40 years, and Mackay, ID, she was born on August 19, 
1951, in St. Louis, MO, to Elizabeth and David Orwig. After graduating 
from the University of Denver and earning a master's degree in biblical 
studies from Multnomah University in Portland, OR, to our great 
benefit, she chose Idaho to be her home. Her work as a real estate 
broker and ski instructor shifted to a career as a political consultant 
working on Republican campaigns, including campaigns for former 
Presidents Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush. Her career also included 
leading the Blaine County Republican Party and serving as a field 
director for former U.S. Senator Larry Craig. She served in President 
George H.W. Bush's administration as a Presidential appointee, and she 
was appointed by Governor Butch Otter to the Idaho Fifth District 
Magistrates Commission. She also founded and led the Quincy Group and 
was a member of the Idaho National Federation of Republican Women, 
Rotary Club, and Kiwanis Club.
  Marty Orwig was a driven leader, thought-provoker, and encourager. 
She was guided by a great love of God and used her experience to help 
guide and support local youth and others. We extend our condolences to 
her sister and brother-in-law, Sarah Orwig and Clark Costen, and 
countless friends. Marty will be greatly missed, but her loving legacy 
will remain a major part of the heart of our great State and 
Nation.

                          ____________________



