

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 176 (Tuesday, October 31, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 176 (Tuesday, October 31, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6930-S6931]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, I have 9 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


           committee on commerce, science, and transportation

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, October 31, 2017, 
at 10 a.m., in room SR-253 to conduct a hearing on the following 
nominations: Leon A. Westmoreland, of Georgia, to be a Director of the 
Amtrak Board of Directors, Raymond Martinez, of New Jersey, to be 
Administrator of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Diana 
Furchtgott-Roth, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of 
Transportation, and Bruce Landsberg, of South Carolina, to be a Member 
of the National Transportation Safety Board.


               committee on energy and natural resources

  The Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, October 31, 2017, at 10 
a.m., in room SD-366 to conduct a hearing.

[[Page S6931]]

  



          committee on health, education, labor, and pensions

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, October 31, 2017, 
at 2:30 p.m., in room SD-430 to conduct a hearing entitled 
``Implementation of the 21st Century Cures Act: Achieving the Promise 
of Health Information Technology.''


        committee on homeland security and governmental affairs

  The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, October 
31, 2017, at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing entitled ``2017 Hurricane 
Season: Oversight of the Federal Response.''


        committee on homeland security and governmental affairs

  The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, October 
31, 2017, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a hearing entitled ``2020 Census: 
Examining Cost Overruns, Information Security, and Accuracy.''


                    select committee on intelligence

  The Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, October 31, 2017, at 9:30 a.m.., in 
room SD-106 to conduct a hearing on the nomination of John C. Demers, 
of Virginia, to be an Assistant Attorney General, Department of 
Justice.


                    select committee on intelligence

  The Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, October 31, 2017, at 2:30 p.m., in 
room SH-219 to conduct a closed hearing.


     subcommittee on oceans, atmosphere, fisheries, and coast guard

  The Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and Coast of the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, October 31, 2017, at 
2:30 p.m., in room SR-253 to conduct a hearing entitled ``Exploring 
Native American Subsistence Rights and International Treaties.''


                  subcommittee on crime and terrorism

  The Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism of the Committee on the 
Judiciary is authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on 
Tuesday, October 31, 2017, at 2:30 p.m., in room SH-216 to conduct a 
hearing entitled ``Extremist Content and Russian Disinformation Online: 
Working with Tech to Find Solutions.''

                          ____________________



