

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 148 (Wednesday, September 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 148 (Wednesday, September 13, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H7320]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




        OUTSTANDING ORGANIZATIONS IN BUCKS COUNTY, PENNSYLVANIA

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Fitzpatrick) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I am proud to recognize two outstanding 
organizations in my district that were recently honored by the 
Commonwealth Prevention Alliance for their dedication and leadership to 
prevent and eliminate substance abuse in Bucks County.
  The Council Rock Coalition for Healthy Youth, represented by Director 
Debbie Moskovitz, received the Commonwealth's Coalition of the Year 
Award; and Melanie Swanson, a prevention specialist representing the 
Council of Southeast Pennsylvania, received the Maggie Marcopul Award, 
given in honor of Maggie Marcopul, a prevention professional who served 
Bucks County, and Pennsylvania on the whole, for more than three 
decades.

                              {time}  1030

  Council Rock Coalition for Healthy Youth and the Council of Southeast 
Pennsylvania demonstrate every day that the targeted efforts of 
substance abuse prevention are effective. According to the Substance 
Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, every dollar spent on 
effective school-based prevention programs saves approximately $18 in 
healthcare and judicial costs resulting from substance abuse.
  Fighting back against the opioid addiction crisis requires a 
multifaceted approach led by lawmakers, community leaders, healthcare 
professionals, and law enforcement. I am thankful that Bucks County has 
organizations like these that effectively prevent local substance 
abuse.


  Commending Work Done at Aark Wildlife Rehabilitation and Education 
                                 Center

  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to commend the work done 
by Aark Wildlife Rehabilitation and Education Center in Chalfont, Bucks 
County, Pennsylvania.
  Founded by Mary Jane Stretch, the Aark focuses on rehabilitation, 
education, and training to help take care of orphaned and injured birds 
and mammals. Their goal is to rehabilitate these animals until they can 
be set free, take care of themselves, and learn the tools of survival. 
The Aark is the biggest wildlife center of Pennsylvania, serving over 
5,000 animals.
  In addition to rehabilitation, the Aark provides education programs 
for students to give them an appreciation for wildlife and the need to 
keep animals in their natural habitat.
  I am pleased to stand by my constituents Mary Jane Stretch and her 
daughter, Leah Stallings, at the Aark as they strive to rehabilitate 
animals and educate students and the public about how to care for 
wounded animals.

                          ____________________



