

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 142 (Tuesday, September 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 142 (Tuesday, September 5, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4927-S4928]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                      REMEMBERING PHYLLIS SCHLAFLY

 Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, today I am proud to stand to honor 
Phyllis Schlafly, a woman who was not only an incredible Missourian, 
but an incredible American. She was a strong conservative, engaged 
citizen, proud wife and mother, powerful speaker, passionate lawyer, 
devout Catholic, and good friend of mine. We lost her a year ago, and I 
take this moment today to pay tribute to her and the impact she had on 
our Nation.
  There is no doubt that the name Phyllis Schlafly will be mentioned in 
the history of conservatism.
  Upon Phyllis's receiving of the Women of Achievement Award in 1963, 
publisher of St. Louis Globe-Democrat Richard Amberg stated that 
``Phyllis Schlafly stands for everything that has made America great 
and for those things which will keep it that way.''
  Our late President, Ronald Reagan, said to Phyllis Schlafly, ``Eagle 
Forum has set a high standard of volunteer participation in the 
political and legislative process. . . . You've been out front on so 
many of the most important issues of our time. . . . Your work is an 
example to all those who would struggle for an America that is 
prosperous and free. . . . Our nation needs the kind of dedicated 
individual volunteer service you and Eagle Forum have demonstrated over 
the last 20 years.''
  Phyllis was born and raised in St. Louis, MO. She attended college at 
Washington University and received her master of arts degree at 
Radcliffe College. She married John Fred Schlafly, Jr., in 1949 and had 
six children. In 1972, Phyllis established Eagle Forum, and her work to 
strengthen conservative principles flourished from there. Her voice 
became the conservative conscience of the GOP, and she was never afraid 
to let me or any other member of the Republican Party know when she 
felt we were not true to those ideals.
  While I wish today to commemorate her upon the anniversary of her 
death, I would be remiss if I didn't point out that her passing did not 
end her life's work.
  Her legacy of strong conservative values continues today through 
organizations, books, and through the passion

[[Page S4928]]

she ignited in fellow conservatives. Whether or not one agrees or 
disagrees with her points of view, one must acknowledge her crucial 
part in the history of American politics.
  When she began speaking publicly in the 1960s, Phyllis blazed a trail 
and encouraged women and mothers everywhere to step into American 
politics and issues of the day. She wasn't afraid to voice the thoughts 
she had that others agreed with, yet were too afraid to speak; nor was 
she afraid to challenge those with whom she disagreed. Phyllis 
demonstrated to all of us that every voice matters and reminded us that 
a powerful voice lies not in whoever is talking the loudest but whoever 
sees potential for change.
  Phyllis was a pioneer for women in the world of politics, especially 
for conservative women, and simultaneously encouraged all Americans to 
get involved in issues bigger than themselves.
  She advocated tirelessly throughout her life and never retired. She 
was one of the first conservatives to publicly endorse then-candidate 
Donald Trump. At her 2016 funeral, President Trump said, ``Her legacy 
will live on every time some underdog--outmatched and outgunned--defies 
the odds and delivers a win for the people.''
  Phyllis Schlafly lived a life of dedication and perseverance. She 
continuously served our Nation through her inspiring speeches, 
encouraging attitude, and passion for the future. We miss her and thank 
her for all the work she has done. Today we honor her and her legacy 
and take a moment to recognize the longstanding impact she has had on 
our Nation.

                          ____________________



