

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 207 (Tuesday, December 19, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 207 (Tuesday, December 19, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S8151]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, I have 3 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


            Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs

  The Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, December 19, 2017, at 
10 a.m. to conduct a hearing on the following nominations: Scott 
Garrett, of New Jersey, to be President, Kimberly A. Reed, of West 
Virginia, to be First Vice President, Mark L. Greenblatt, of Maryland, 
to be Inspector General, and Spencer Bachus III, of Alabama, Judith 
Delzoppo Pryor, of Ohio, and Claudia Slacik, of New York, each to be a 
Member of the Board of Directors, all of the Export-Import Bank.


                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, December 19, 2017, at 2 p.m. to 
conduct a hearing on the following nominations: Peter Hendrick Vrooman, 
of New York, to be Ambassador to the Republic of Rwanda, and Joel 
Danies, of Maryland, to be Ambassador to the Gabonese Republic, and to 
serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador to 
the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe, both of the 
Department of State.


                           Committee on Rules

  The Committee on Rules is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Tuesday, December 19, 2017, at 2:30 p.m. to conduct a 
hearing entitled ``A resolution to improve procedures for the 
consideration of nomination in the Senate''.

                          ____________________



