

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 202 (Tuesday, December 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 202 (Tuesday, December 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9793]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




         CONGRATULATING QUAKER VALLEY HIGH SCHOOL FOOTBALL TEAM

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Marshall). The Chair recognizes the 
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Rothfus) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. ROTHFUS. Mr. Speaker, not only was western Pennsylvania hit by a 
flurry of snow this past weekend, but by great pride in high school 
football. This past Saturday, my hometown Quaker Valley High School 
football team won the State championship trophy in the Pennsylvania 
Interscholastic Athletic Association Class 2A division.
  With preseason rankings that would merit them as underdogs and a new 
coach that stepped in just before the start of the season, the Quakers 
tackled their way into history. They defeated their opponents handily 
by 17 points.
  Mr. Speaker, these State champions are to be commended for their grit 
and perseverance. It was an excellent game to cap off an outstanding 
season.
  Congratulations to Coach Jerry Veshio, the entire coaching staff, and 
the players who are excelling in this western Pennsylvania tradition.


         Congratulating Pine-Richland High School Football Team

  Mr. ROTHFUS. Mr. Speaker, on Saturday, in front of a crowd exceeding 
2,000 people at snow-covered Hersheypark Stadium, western 
Pennsylvania's Pine-Richland Rams charged victoriously into the history 
books.
  With a 41-21 victory, the Rams won the State championship in the 
Pennsylvania Interscholastic Athletic Association Class 6A division. 
Indeed, it was an unforgettable win that cemented their exceptional 
State championship season.
  Congratulations to Coach Eric Kasperowicz, the entire coaching staff, 
and the players for excelling in this great western Pennsylvania 
tradition.
  Well done, Rams. Your dedication and hard work has made Pine-Richland 
High School and all of western Pennsylvania proud.

                          ____________________



