

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 160 (Thursday, October 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 160 (Thursday, October 5, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6357]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       TRIBUTE TO BILL JOHNSTONE

 Mr. TESTER. Mr. President, today I wish to honor a man who has 
done so much for Montana. Bill Johnstone, a native Montanan, graduate 
of Montana State University, and retiring chairman of D.A. Davidson, 
has dedicated his life to improving Montana.
  His work at D.A. Davidson has helped countless Montanans financially 
prepare for the future. Whether it is helping Montana families plan for 
retirement, small business owners strategize about the future, or 
municipalities meet their financial needs, Bill has been there for 
them, but Bill's good work expanded beyond the private sector. While 
running a thriving company that employs more than 1,300 employees, 
hundreds of them Montanans, Bill has always invested his time and 
resources in Montana. He serves as a member of the board of regents to 
the Montana University system and has spent years improving schools 
across Montana.
  Bill has also served on the International Heart Institute in Missoula 
and as the chairman of the Great Falls Public Schools Foundation, 
helping to raise funds for our public schools. His dedication to his 
company, his family, and his community makes Bill a model Montanan.
  Helping move Montana forward is a common theme in Bill's family, his 
father, William A. Johnstone, served the education community for nearly 
30 years and retired as acting president of Montana State University. 
It is clear Bill has instilled hard work and public service in his 
children as well. His son Anthony is an associate professor of law at 
the University of Montana and former solicitor general of the State of 
Montana and his son Jesse is the founder and president of a digital 
marketing agency in New York.
  As Bill retires, his legacy at D.A. Davidson will live on and his 
lasting impact on Montana as a whole will continue to grow. Thanks for 
the 17 years at D.A. Davidson, Bill, and for your service to Montana. I 
wish you, your wife, Andrea, and your kids Anthony and Jesse nothing 
but the best in retirement.

                          ____________________



