

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 186 (Tuesday, November 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 186 (Tuesday, November 14, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9187]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1045
                           GIVE THEM A CHANCE

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
Missouri (Mrs. Hartzler) for 5 minutes.
  Mrs. HARTZLER. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of an important 
bill that could help so many families with loved ones struggling with 
life-threatening diseases. I am talking about the Right to Try Act 
which would allow terminally ill patients to request access to 
experimental drugs after all other available treatment options have 
been exhausted as well as prevent the Federal Government from 
interfering with States that have already passed such laws.
  While Missouri passed a right-to-try law in 2014, I was reminded of 
the importance of this bill just last year. As I was returning to my 
office one morning after votes on the House floor, I was stopped by a 
little boy, Zack Mongiello, who ran after me to catch my attention. 
Zack, who is only 11 years old, is one of the most effective advocates 
for the right-to-try campaign. His father, Frank, was diagnosed with 
ALS a few years ago.
  This devastating disease has an average life expectancy of 2 to 5 
years, with half of those diagnosed surviving for only 3 years. Ever 
since that life-changing diagnosis, Zack's family, including his mother 
and five siblings, have been doing all they can to ensure passage of 
this important bill.
  When Zack came running up to me that day last year, his message was 
clear and powerful: ``My dad is dying,'' he said. ``Please help.'' I 
was incredibly moved by this, as I think anyone would be. Here is his 
picture. This precious little boy, whose family is dealing with the 
unimaginable, convinced me and numerous other legislators of the 
urgency of this legislation. We must act now.
  I want Congress to help Zack's family and other families who have no 
other options. Washington should not stand in the way of Americans with 
life-ending illnesses who want to try to save themselves and have no 
other available options.
  That is why I am a proud cosponsor of the Right to Try Act and was 
glad to see the Senate pass their version of this bill. It is now time 
for the House to act, and I call on my colleagues to support this 
potentially lifesaving legislation. Please join me so that we can give 
families like Zack's more options and hopefully more time.

                          ____________________



