

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 195 (Thursday, November 30, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 195 (Thursday, November 30, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9563]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





                              {time}  1730
             REMEMBERING FORMER CONGRESSMAN MAURICE HINCHEY

  (Mr. ENGEL asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I, too, rise to mourn the loss of our great 
colleague, Maurice Hinchey.
  I knew Maurice for more than 30 years. We served together for many 
years in the New York State Assembly, and then he came to Congress.
  In the assembly in Albany and all of New York State, he was known as 
one of the champions of the environment. He chaired that committee in 
Albany. When he came to Washington, he also, as my colleagues have 
said, championed green things and making sure the environment was safe 
for all of us for generations to come.
  The thing that I really remember about Maurice Hinchey is what a nice 
person he was. He was soft-spoken but sharp, intelligent, and honest. 
He was the kind of person who was in public service for all the right 
reasons and really was a model Member of Congress for so many of us. 
Whether you agreed with him or disagreed with him, he listened to you. 
He was a tenacious fighter and a really smart individual who really, 
really knew his subject.
  The thing I remember about Maurice is what a nice guy he was, how 
soft-spoken he was, and how caring he was. He didn't enter public life 
to get the accolades. He entered it because he really believed 
government should make a difference and could make a difference.
  Let me say, Maurice, you did make a difference: You made a difference 
to many in America; you made a difference to those of us in New York 
State; you made a difference to your friends who served in the New York 
State Assembly in Albany; and you made a difference in the United 
States Congress here in Washington.
  Rest in peace, Maurice. We will miss you, but we will never forget 
you.

                          ____________________



