

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 157 (Monday, October 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 157 (Monday, October 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6256]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        CONFIRMATION OF AJIT PAI

 Ms. CORTEZ MASTO. Mr. President, I had every intention of ably 
performing my duty as Senator and voting today on the confirmation of 
Mr. Ajit Pai to be a member of the Federal Communications Commission. 
Unfortunately, the tragic events in Las Vegas last night required me to 
travel back to my home State. My thought and prayers are with the 
families of those killed and wounded in the vicious and senseless 
attack outside the Mandalay Bay Resort.
  On the question of Mr. Pai's nomination, I wanted to make my vote in 
opposition to his confirmation clear. Many of the specific actions 
taken by Mr. Pai as Chairman of the FCC have raised questions about 
whether he should garner my support for another term at the Commission. 
I have come to this decision through a process of reviewing his resume, 
meeting with him personally to discuss his governing perspective, as 
well as having questioned him during multiple FCC hearings before the 
Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee.
  I will continue to keep an open mind in working with Mr. Pai to 
bridge the digital divide in remote parts of Nevada and for my 
constituents who simply need more access to complete their homework, 
apply for jobs, or perform various everyday functions that require 
quality internet service. At this time, there were too many concerns 
about actions taken in Mr. Pai's tenure since January, including the 
process by which he is looking to reform a free and open 
internet.

                          ____________________



