

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 176 (Tuesday, October 31, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 176 (Tuesday, October 31, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6886-S6899]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE SESSION

                                 ______
                                 

                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, the Senate will 
proceed to executive session and resume consideration of the Barrett 
nomination, which the clerk will report.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read the nomination of Amy 
Coney Barrett, of Indiana, to be United States Circuit Judge for the 
Seventh Circuit.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The assistant Democratic leader.
  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, Senator McConnell has come to the floor to 
complain about what he calls obstruction of President Trump's judicial 
nominees. The majority leader must feel that many of us suffer from 
amnesia.
  It was just last year Senate Republicans, under the leadership of the 
same Senator McConnell, set a new standard of obstruction. The most 
prominent victim of Republican obstruction, Chief Judge Merrick 
Garland, was President Obama's nominee for the Supreme Court. Never, 
never in the history of the U.S. Senate has the Senate denied a Supreme 
Court nominee a hearing and a vote. Senator McConnell led the 
Republicans last year in doing that.
  Then, Senator McConnell refused to even meet with Judge Garland, 
refused to give him the courtesy of a meeting, even though the judge's 
qualifications were unquestioned and even though he had been confirmed 
to the DC Circuit with broad bipartisan support.
  The way Senate Republicans treated Merrick Garland was disgraceful, 
but Judge Garland was far from the only victim of Republican systematic 
obstruction during the Obama Presidency. In 2016, there were 30 
noncontroversial judicial nominees--17 women and 13 men--who were 
denied a floor vote by Senate Republicans. All but two of these 
nominees were reported out of the Judiciary Committee with a unanimous 
vote of Democrats and Republicans. Some of these nominees--like Edward 
Stanton of Tennessee and Julien Neals of New Jersey--sat on the Senate 
calendar for more than a year, waiting for a vote which the Republican 
majority leader and his Members refused to give them.
  During the last 2 years of President Obama's administration, the 
Republican-controlled Senate confirmed only 22 judges in 2 years. That 
is the lowest number of confirmations in a Congress since 1952. By 
comparison, in the last 2 years of George W. Bush's Presidency, the 
Democratic-controlled Senate confirmed 68 judicial nominees--22 under 
Republicans and Obama and 68 under Democrats for President Bush.
  That is not all. Republicans also obstructed 18 Obama nominees by 
denying them blue slips. That is the permission slip from a Senator 
from the State of the judicial nominee. That included five nominees who 
had been State supreme court justices who were not approved by 
Republican Senators to move to the Federal bench: Lisabeth Tabor Hughes 
from Kentucky, Myra Selby from Indiana, Don Beatty from South Carolina, 
Louis Butler from Wisconsin, Patricia Timmons-Goodson from North 
Carolina.
  Senate Republicans turned obstruction of judicial nominees into an 
art form under President Obama. Yet Senator McConnell, day after day, 
has said: ``I think President Obama has been treated very fairly by any 
objective standard.''
  He comes to the floor now regularly to complain about ``obstruction'' 
of Trump nominees. Senator McConnell and the Senate Republicans set the 
standard for obstruction. If Leader McConnell thinks President Obama 
was treated fairly with these facts, it is hard to understand why he is 
complaining about the treatment of President Trump's judicial nominees.
  So far this year, the Senate has confirmed four of President Trump's 
circuit court nominees and four of his district court nominees. At the 
same point in his first year, President Obama had one circuit court 
nominee and three district court nominees confirmed. Twice the number 
have been confirmed under President Trump as were confirmed under 
President Obama in each of their first years. President Trump's 
nominees are moving twice as fast as President Obama's.
  Senator McConnell controls the floor schedule. If he wants to 
schedule more votes on judges, I suppose he has the power to do so. He 
is exercising that power by doing something that has never happened in 
the history of the Senate. Four circuit court judge nominees will be 
considered this week in the Senate.
  Since the Republicans in the Senate are dedicating this week to 
judicial nominations, it gives us a good opportunity to look at the 
nominees President Trump has put forward for lifetime appointments to 
the second highest courts in the Federal system.
  Time and again, we have seen President Trump nominate people who are 
far outside of the judicial mainstream. For example, there is John 
Bush, now a judge on the Sixth Circuit, who blogged about the false 
claim that President Obama wasn't born in the United States, compared 
abortion to slavery, and said in his hearing that he thinks 
impartiality is an aspiration for a judge, not an expectation.
  There is Damien Schiff, nominee for the Court of Federal Claims under 
President Trump, who called Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy ``a 
judicial prostitute.''
  There is Jeff Mateer, a Trump nominee for the district court in 
Texas, who described transgender children as part of ``Satan's plan'' 
and who lamented that States were banning so-called ``conversion 
therapy,'' the pseudoscience of attempting to ``convert'' LGBT 
Americans into heterosexuals.

[[Page S6887]]

  There is Thomas Farr, Trump nominee for the district court in North 
Carolina, whom the Congressional Black Caucus describes as ``the 
preeminent attorney for North Carolina Republicans seeking to curtail 
the voting rights of people of color.''
  There is Greg Katsas, nominee for the DC Circuit, who refused to say 
at his hearing whether the torture technique known as waterboarding is 
illegal.
  There is Brett Talley, a nominee by President Trump to be Federal 
trial judge in Alabama, who has never tried a single case and he wrote 
in a blog: ``I pledge my support to the National Rifle Association, 
financially, politically, and intellectually.''
  There is Alabama district court and Trump nominee Liles Burke, who 
hung a portrait of Confederate President Jefferson Davis in his office 
and defended it at his hearing, saying it had ``historical 
significance.''
  There is Oklahoma district court nominee Charles Goodwin, who 
received a very rare rating of ``not qualified'' to be a Federal judge 
from the American Bar Association.
  The list of Trump nominees goes on.
  Routinely, we see judicial nominees under President Trump who have a 
history of taking ideologically driven positions that are out of the 
mainstream. Nearly all of these nominees are members of the rightwing 
Federalist Society, which President Trump uses as his gatekeeper for 
the Federal bench.
  Do you remember Neil Gorsuch, the Supreme Court Justice? Do you know 
how he was notified that he had been chosen to be a candidate for the 
Supreme Court? You would expect a call from the White House, right--
maybe even a call from the President? No. The White House decided to 
delegate to the Federalist Society to notify him. They called Mr. Leo, 
their director, and said: Why don't you call Mr. Gorsuch and give him 
the good news? Well, it is no surprise to those of us who know that the 
Federalist Society, this conservative group, is now the gatekeeper of 
all the Federal judges under President Trump.
  Many of these nominees have given no reassurance that they will be 
independent as judges. And the question obviously is, What impact will 
the President--who has unfortunately denigrated and pressured Federal 
judges in the past--have on them?
  Let's consider the nominees before the Senate this week.
  Professor Amy Coney Barrett, who has been nominated to sit on the 
Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals, is a distinguished professor at Notre 
Dame Law School. She has strong academic credentials. She clerked for 
Justice Scalia on the Supreme Court. But she has no judicial 
experience. And she told the Judiciary Committee that she could only 
recall three litigation matters that she worked on in her entire 
career--three. She has never served as a counsel of record in an 
appellate case or ever argued an appeal.
  Given her lack of judicial record and her minimal record as a 
practicing lawyer, the Judiciary Committee looked at Professor 
Barrett's academic writings to try to understand who she is and what 
she believes. Basically, that is all we had to go on.
  Much of Professor Barrett's writings deal with when she believes it 
is acceptable for judges to deviate from precedent. For example, in a 
2003 law journal article, she called for ``federal courts to restore 
flexibility to stare decisis doctrine.'' In a 2013 article, she said 
that it is ``more legitimate for [a justice] to enforce her best 
understanding of the Constitution rather than a precedent she thinks 
clearly in conflict with it.'' These are extraordinary--some would say 
even extreme--views of the obligation of a Federal judge to follow 
established precedent from someone who is seeking a lifetime 
appointment to the second highest court in the land.
  I would like to address Barrett's Law Review article. She co-wrote an 
article in 1998 with John Garvey in the Marquette Law Review entitled 
``Catholic Judges in Capital Cases.'' This article was about what she 
perceived then as the recusal obligations of ``orthodox Catholic'' 
judges. The article said some provocative things. Here are some 
examples:
  ``A judge will often entertain an ideological bias that makes him 
lean one way or another. In fact, we might safely say that every judge 
has such an inclination.''
  ``Litigants and the general public are entitled to impartial justice, 
and that may be something that a judge who is heedful of ecclesiastical 
pronouncements cannot dispense.''
  She wrote, when discussing the ``behavior of orthodox Catholics in 
capital cases,'' that ``the judge's cooperation with evil passes 
acceptable limits when he conducts a sentencing hearing.''
  This is an article written by the nominee. This is an issue raised by 
the nominee. It was such a profound statement about the relationship 
between conviction, conscience, and religious belief, that it was the 
subject of many questions from many Senators on the Judiciary 
Committee.
  For the last 2 days, Senator McConnell has come to the floor and 
talked about the left asking questions about Amy Coney Barrett's 
religious beliefs. Obviously Senator McConnell has not read the 
transcript from the Senate Judiciary Committee.
  Some have suggested it was inappropriate for the Judiciary Committee 
to even question the nominee about the impact of religious belief on 
the discharge of her duties. Some of my colleagues have questioned the 
propriety of such questions in light of the Constitution's clear, 
unequivocal prohibition on religious tests. But I would remind the 
Senate that it was the nominee herself, in this 47-page Law Review 
article, who raised this issue on whether the teachings of the Catholic 
Church should have any impact on the discharge of judicial duties of a 
Catholic judge.
  So was it any surprise that at least five different Senators--three 
Republicans and two Democrats--asked her about the article that she 
coauthored? It is no surprise that the gravity of this publication and 
the issue it raised led committee members on both sides of the aisle to 
ask questions about the nominee's religious beliefs, the contents of 
her writings, and how it would impact the discharge of her duties if 
she was approved by the Senate.
  Who asked the first question about the religious beliefs of Amy Coney 
Barrett? It was the Republican chairman of the Committee, Charles 
Grassley. He noted that Professor Barrett had been outspoken about her 
Catholic faith and asked her when it was proper for a judge to put 
religious views above applying the law. Chairman Grassley also asked, 
in his second question, how she would decide when she needs to recuse 
herself on grounds of conscience.
  Senator McConnell comes to the floor and suggests that any reference 
to that article somehow raises questions of religious bias. Let me say 
for the record that I do not believe Chairman Grassley is guilty of 
religious bias, nor have I ever seen any evidence of it. It was hard to 
imagine how he could avoid the obvious. She had written a lengthy 
article--coauthored an article on a subject, and he felt duty-bound, as 
chairman of the Judiciary Committee, to ask her questions about her 
beliefs on the subject. I don't believe that Chairman Grassley would 
ever apply a religious test to any nominee, but he and many of us felt 
it important to ask Professor Barrett to state her position clearly on 
the convergence of her faith, her conscience, and her duties as a 
Federal judge.
  Similarly, Republican Senator Orrin Hatch felt it necessary to ask 
Professor Barrett to make clear a judge's duty when the laws or 
Constitution conflicts with the judge's personal religious beliefs. 
Again, I do not believe Senator Orrin Hatch, Republican of Utah, would 
apply a religious test to any nominee, but the nominee's writings and 
the questions those writings raised led him to ask the nominee that 
question.
  Later in the hearing, Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, raised 
the same issue. I will quote what he said to Professor Barrett:

       I've read some of what you've written on Catholic judges 
     and in capital cases, and in particular, as I understand it, 
     you argued that Catholic judges are morally precluded from 
     enforcing the death penalty. I was going to ask you to just 
     please explain your views on that because that obviously is 
     of relevance to the job for which you have been nominated.

  That was from Republican Senator Ted Cruz. I do not suggest that he 
was guilty of any religious bias in asking the question about an 
article written by the nominee.

[[Page S6888]]

  I take our Constitution seriously when it says there should be no 
religious test for public office, but many Senators on the Judiciary 
Committee--three Republicans and two Democrats, including myself--felt 
the writings of the nominee warranted an inquiry about her views on the 
impact of her religion on a judge's role. That is far from a religious 
test in violation of the Constitution.
  At her hearing, I asked Professor Barrett several questions about her 
1998 Law Review article. I asked her whether she still agreed with her 
article. She said in general that she did. I said that even though I am 
a Catholic, even though I have gone through 19 years of Catholic 
education, I have never run into the term ``orthodox Catholic,'' which 
she used in that article. I asked her if she could define it. What was 
she saying? Whom did she describe? She said it was an imperfect term 
but explained the context for her use of it. I asked her whether she 
considered herself in that category, using her term which she put 
forward as carrying certain obligations on judicial recusal. She 
acknowledged again that the term is a proxy and that it wasn't a term 
in current use.
  Some have argued that I was imposing a religious test--somehow, the 
three Republican Senators asking the same question have not been 
challenged--or that I was insinuating that Catholics can't serve on the 
bench. That is absurd. I myself am Catholic. I deeply respect and value 
the freedom of religion in our country and the Constitution. And I will 
let my record speak for itself about the number of Catholic nominees 
whom I have appointed to the bench or tried to appoint to the bench 
with the concurrence of the Senate during the course of my career. I 
voted for many judicial nominees who are of the Catholic religion, 
including Judge Ralph Erickson, who is outspoken about his Catholic 
faith and whom I voted to confirm several weeks ago. I am also sure I 
voted against nominees who were Catholic as well because I didn't think 
they had the experience, judgment, or temperament to serve in the 
Federal judiciary.
  At nomination hearings, I ask questions to try to understand how the 
nominee would approach the job of a judge. I asked Professor Barrett 
questions about issues she raised in her academic writings that could 
directly impact the discharge of her judicial duties.
  I would note that Professor Barrett put forward her views as part of 
the academic legal debate. Contrast that with Paul Abrams, President 
Obama's nominee for the Central District of California, who was 
aggressively questioned by committee Republicans last year about 
statements he made while speaking at his synagogue. Republicans 
ultimately blocked Paul Abrams' nomination. No one on this side of the 
aisle--not this Senator or any Senator--questioned whether they were 
applying a religious test in rejecting his nomination.
  When judicial nominees have put forward their views on issues like 
the intersection of law and faith as part of the academic legal debate, 
I think it is fair for members of the Judiciary Committee to ask them 
about it. That is no religious test by my measure.
  I voted against Professor Barrett's nomination in committee because I 
don't believe she has sufficient experience to be a circuit court judge 
and because of her writings about precedent. No one doubts that she is 
smart, but she has barely spent any time in the courtroom. The only 
basis we have to judge her on is on her academic writings.
  Let's be honest. If a Democratic President had put forward a nominee 
with as little practical legal experience as Professor Barrett and with 
a similar history of advocating for not following precedent, I think we 
know exactly how the Senators on the other side of the aisle would have 
voted. As it stands, I cannot support Professor Barrett's nomination.


                       Nomination of Joan Larsen

  I oppose the nomination of Michigan Supreme Court Justice Joan Larsen 
to the Sixth Circuit. She is one of the 21 Supreme Court candidates 
that the Federalist Society and the Heritage Foundation handpicked for 
President Trump. Clearly, those rightwing organizations are confident 
that they will like her rulings if she is confirmed.
  When she appeared before our committee, I asked some simple 
questions, and I was troubled by the responses.
  In 2006, Justice Larsen wrote an op-ed defending President Bush's use 
of a signing statement on the McCain torture amendment. The McCain 
amendment prohibited torture and cruel, inhuman, or degrading 
treatment. I asked Justice Larsen about that op-ed and asked her if she 
believes waterboarding is torture and illegal. She would not answer the 
question. The law is clear on this matter, and I have voted against 
nominees in the past who would not acknowledge this.
  I also asked Justice Larsen about the $140,000 in ads that a dark 
money front group called the Judicial Crisis Network had run in support 
of her nomination. This is the same rightwing, dark money organization 
that spent millions of dollars in undisclosed donations running ads to 
oppose Merrick Garland's nomination to the Supreme Court and to support 
the nomination of Neil Gorsuch.
  I am troubled that special interest groups are making undisclosed 
donations to these nomination front groups. These special interests 
likely have a stake in the cases that will come before these judges. 
The donations should be transparent so that judges can make informed 
decisions about recusal.
  I asked Justice Larsen if she could call on this front group to stop 
running ads in support of her nomination unless donations to the groups 
are made public. She responded that this was a political debate on 
which she could not opine. I think that is an absurd position, given 
that the debate here is over her own nomination and getting information 
for her own recusal decisions.
  I also asked Justice Larsen if she agreed, as a factual matter, with 
President Trump's patently absurd claim that 3 to 5 million people 
voted illegally in the 2016 election. I think that is an easy question. 
Justice Larsen ducked it, saying that this was a political debate. I am 
troubled by these answers. I believe Justice Larsen has not shown the 
necessary independence from the President or rightwing groups like the 
Judicial Crisis Network, and she does not earn my vote.


                       Nomination of Allison Eid

  I oppose the nomination of Colorado Supreme Court Justice Allison Eid 
to the Tenth Circuit. She is another on the short list of 21 Supreme 
Court nominees that the Federalist Society and the Heritage Foundation 
assembled for President Trump. She has now been nominated to the seat 
of the Tenth Circuit once held by Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch.
  I am troubled by the dissents Justice Eid wrote in a number of cases. 
I asked her about one of those cases during her hearing. A 2015 case, 
Westin Operator, LLC v. Groh, involved a hotel that evicted a group of 
college-age, intoxicated friends into freezing weather one night. The 
young adults ended up getting into a car and driving away. The car 
crashed, and a person was killed. The family of Caitlin Groh, who 
suffered traumatic brain damage in the accident, sued the hotel for 
negligently evicting the guests into a foreseeably dangerous 
environment.
  Justice Eid's dissent argued that the court should have dismissed the 
Groh's family claim on a motion for summary judgment. She said that she 
saw no material dispute of fact in the case because she claimed the 
hotel video showed there were taxis in the area that the evicted guests 
could have taken. But the majority of the court saw the same evidence, 
the same video, and came to the opposite conclusion.
  The majority wrote:

       Video footage from hotel security cameras shows two taxis 
     in the vicinity during the general timeframe of the eviction. 
     No taxi is visible on screen during the time in which the 
     group exited the hotel and walked to the parking lot en 
     masse, but there is a police car parked at the entrance. It 
     is unclear from the record whether the taxis visible at other 
     times in the video were occupied or available for service, 
     whether any member of the group saw the taxis, and whether 
     the security guards evicting the group were aware if a taxi 
     was immediately available. . . . One of the people evicted 
     testified at his own deposition that he tried to look for a 
     cab outside the hotel but didn't see one.

  In other words, looking at the same evidence, the majority of the 
court could not reach the same conclusion. It is difficult to 
understand how Justice Eid saw this evidence as undisputed and why she 
wanted this case dismissed

[[Page S6889]]

on summary judgment--until you read the part of Justice Eid's dissent 
where she talks about ``the burden that the majority is placing on 
Colorado businesses.'' That appears to explain her ruling, not the 
facts in the case.
  In written questions I asked Justice Eid if she had also considered 
the burden the court's decision would place on these young adults and 
their families. She did not respond.
  This is one of her troubling dissents, but there were others. In the 
2014 case of City of Brighton v. Rodriguez, her dissent would have 
denied workers' compensation for a city employee who fell down the 
stairs to her office and needed brain surgery. In the 2017 case of 
People v. Boyd, her dissent criticized the State's decision not to 
prosecute a person on appeal based on a marijuana possession statute 
that is no longer operative. The cases go on and give ample reason why 
I do not believe this troubling record justifies Justice Eid replacing 
Justice Gorsuch on this important court.


                     Nomination of Stephanos Bibas

  The last nominee I will address is, I believe, one of the most 
unusual I have ever seen before the Senate Judiciary Committee--
Stephanos Bibas, who has been nominated for a lifetime appointment to 
the Third Circuit Court. In 2009, Professor Bibas wrote a lengthy draft 
paper entitled ``Corporal Punishment, Not Imprisonment.'' In it, he 
said that for a wide range of crimes ``the default punishment should be 
non-disfiguring corporal punishment, such as electric shocks.'' He went 
on to call for ``putting offenders in the stocks or pillory where they 
would sit or stand for hours bent in uncomfortable positions.'' 
Professor Bibas then went on to say that ``bystanders and victims could 
jeer and pelt them with rotten eggs and tomatoes (but not rocks).''
  For more severe crimes, Professor Bibas called for ``multiple 
calibrated electroshocks or taser shots'' with medical personnel on 
hand to ensure ``that the offender's health could bear it.''
  He also wrote ``instinctively, many readers feel that corporal 
punishment must be unconstitutionally and immorally cruel, but neither 
objection withstands scrutiny.'' He then wrote that corporal punishment 
``in moderation, without torture or permanent damage, is not cruel.''
  Professor Bibas said at his hearing that he didn't ultimately publish 
the 60-page, footnoted paper because he realized that his writings were 
wrong and offensive. He now says that he rejects his paper. But his 
2009 paper was not just scribblings on a notepad. This was a polished, 
heavily footnoted, 60-page draft law review article.
  Professor Bibas admitted that he presented this draft paper at 
conferences--on June 8, 2009, a conference at the University of 
Pennsylvania Law School; on July 20, 2009, at George Washington 
University Law School; on September 12, 2009, at that Vanderbilt 
Criminal Justice Roundtable.
  According to the website of the Federalist Society, Professor Bibas 
also gave presentations on this same article to three student chapters 
of the Federalist Society--on September 3, 2009, at George Mason; on 
October 21, 2009, at the University of Florida; on October 22, 2009, at 
Florida State. Incredibly, this presentation by Professor Bibas was 
advertised with the title ``Corporal Punishment, Not Imprisonment: The 
Shocking Case for Hurting Criminals.'' This is an insensitive title for 
a presentation that called for administering electric shocks to human 
beings.
  In his draft article, Professor Bibas thanked nine other people for 
their thoughts and comments on this paper. This was not something the 
professor wrote as a child or even as a student. When he wrote this 
paper in 2009, Professor Bibas was a professor at the University of 
Pennsylvania Law School, and he had already worked as an assistant U.S. 
attorney. He wrote this paper after Congress had considered the McCain 
torture amendment.
  At the hearing I asked Professor Bibas: Do you remember the debate we 
went through as Americans about the acceptable method of interrogation 
for suspected terrorists overseas? Do you remember the debate we had on 
the floor when Senator McCain, the victim of torture himself as a 
prisoner of war in the Vietnam war, came forward and authored an 
amendment, which got a vote of 90 to 9, condemning torture, cruel, 
inhuman, and degrading treatment of prisoners suspected of being 
terrorists? I asked him if he remembered that debate, which occurred 3 
years before he wrote this outrageous article.
  He said at the hearing: Well, I want to make it clear that I don't 
support waterboarding.
  I said: So you support electric shock on American prisoners, but you 
do not support waterboarding?
  He said on the record, under oath: ``I [knew] it was a crazy idea.''
  This is a man seeking a lifetime appointment to the second highest 
court in the land. This paper deeply troubles me. Not only did 
Professor Bibas go a long way down a dangerous path with his proposals, 
but this law school professor got the law wrong. The Supreme Court had 
made clear in 2002 in the case of Hope v. Pelzer that the corporal 
punishment practiced in the State of Alabama of restraining prisoners 
by tying them to a hitching post in uncomfortable positions constituted 
cruel and unusual punishment in violation of the Eighth Amendment.
  Professor Bibas wrote his paper, workshopped it, took it to six 
different universities, and then ran away from it only after he heard 
how offensive his proposals were.
  That is not my only concern about his nomination. We spent a lot of 
time at the hearing talking about his aggressive prosecution of Linda 
Williams. What was she charged with? The alleged theft of $7 from a 
cash register. The magistrate judge acquitted this defendant even 
before the closing argument from defense counsel. The case was weak, 
yet it was aggressively pursued by then-attorney Bibas. Professor Bibas 
apologized at his hearing for this prosecution, but we have seen over 
and over again that many people try to walk away from who they are and 
what they have done when it comes to a confirmation hearing.
  I believe these cases that I mentioned, particularly this outrageous 
article, show a real insight into the judgment and temperament of this 
judicial nominee.
  I have been a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee for a number 
of years, and I have seen many nominees. I will tell you without fear 
of contradiction that I have never seen a nominee who has written an 
article that is so unsettling and so worrying. I wonder about the 
temperament of this nominee. Given the power that we are about to give 
him to judge the fate of others for decades to come, can we really 
trust his temperament? Can we really trust his judgment?
  Sadly, if the shoe were on the other foot, if this were a nominee who 
had been proffered by a Democratic President before that same 
committee, I know exactly what his fate would have been. He would never 
have been taken seriously or considered for such a high position.
  Mr. President, the article by Amy Coney Barrett, ``Catholic Judges in 
Capital Cases,'' published in the Marquette Law Review can be found 
online at http://scholarship.law.marquette
.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article
=1443&context=mulr, and the article by Stephanos Bibas entitled 
``Corporal Punishment, Not Imprisonment,'' can be found online at 
https://www.judiciary.senate.gov/download/stephanos-bibas-corporal-
punishment, so that those who read my statement will understand exactly 
what it was based on.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                   Recognition of the Minority Leader

  The Democratic leader is recognized.


                          Russia Investigation

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, yesterday morning we learned that two 
members of the Trump campaign--Mr. Manafort, his one-time campaign 
chairman, and Mr. Gates, a close associate of Manafort's--were indicted 
on a dozen charges as part of Special Counsel Mueller's investigation, 
including

[[Page S6890]]

money laundering, conspiracy to commit fraud, and conspiracy against 
the United States.
  The fact that the activity in question took place partially before 
the Trump campaign offered Mr. Manafort the role of chairman in no way 
diminishes the gravity of the situation. If anything, it suggests that 
the Trump campaign was negligent in hiring as its chairman a man who 
was an unregistered foreign agent working for a pro-Russian proxy party 
in Ukraine. That man is now alleged to have been laundering large sums 
of money and concealing his identity as a foreign agent from the FBI 
and the Department of Justice, including during his time during the 
Trump campaign. Imagine having such poor vetting and poor judgment to 
hire such a person as your campaign manager.
  We also learned that a Trump campaign adviser met with a Kremlin 
contact to discuss ``dirt'' they possessed on Secretary Clinton and had 
several email exchanges with other Trump officials about his outreach 
to the Russians. This disclosure should put an end to the idea that 
there was no communication or possible connection between the Trump 
campaign and Russia.
  It is not fake news, Mr. President. It is not fake news. There was a 
connection between the Trump campaign and Russia. Who was involved, how 
much, and what happened are yet to be determined, but there was a 
connection, even though the President has denied that connection for 
months.
  The President can assert whatever he wants on Twitter, but the facts 
are the facts. There were official members of the Trump campaign who 
were receptive to working with a hostile foreign power to obtain 
damaging information about their political opponent. These revelations 
should concern every Member of this body--Democrat, Republican, 
Independent, liberal, moderate, and conservative.
  I understand the strength of the centrifugal forces in our politics 
that warp everything into a partisan battle between two sides. There 
are two sides to every argument, but no one is above the law, no matter 
what side of the argument one is on. The rule of law and American 
democracy are indisputable as our bedrock. We cannot abandon it for 
political expediency.
  Special Counsel Mueller, who served both Republican and Democratic 
administrations--a lifetime public servant and a man of unimpeachable 
integrity--was appointed by President Trump's Deputy Attorney General. 
Mr. Mueller was a career prosecutor and is as straight of a shooter as 
they come. He must be allowed to finish the work he started without any 
interference. If he had nothing to fear, as he claims, President Trump 
would encourage Special Counsel Mueller to follow every lead and pledge 
his full cooperation. Instead, President Trump is again trying to 
divert our attention by making spurious allegations and trying to knock 
down anyone or anything in his way, playing right into the partisan, 
two-sides instinct of Washington. But this goes beyond partisanship. It 
goes right to the rule of law.

  The President has a tendency to call anyone who disagrees with him 
and anyone who has facts that he doesn't like a liar, dishonest, and 
this, that, or the other thing. This has demeaned and degraded our 
Presidency and even our country. There are places where it must stop, 
and it should stop at the rule of law. I say that to President Trump, 
who may never listen, but I say that to my Republican colleagues here 
in this Chamber.
  The Founders of the Republic put at the center of our civic life no 
religion, dogma, or sovereign, but rather the rule of law. It is what 
separated the American experiment from the hereditary monarchies of the 
era and outdated ideas like the divine rights of Kings.
  The rule of law holds in check our people, including our President. 
Donald Trump is President, not King. He cannot decree things to go away 
or say that facts are not facts. He is as subject as anyone else to the 
rule of law. That is what makes our democracy so grand. No one--no 
one--is below the rule of law's protection, and no one is above its 
reproach, including the President of the United States. It safeguards 
our democracy from the usurpations of demagogues and would-be 
dictators. It is why this noble experiment--the American experiment--
continues, and Donald Trump is shaking the foundation of that when he 
tries to get out from Special Counsel Mueller's due process.
  What Special Counsel Mueller represents is the rule of law at work in 
21st century American democracy. Intentionally and spuriously impugning 
his integrity or smearing his efforts as partisan is not only 
inaccurate, it is not only false, it is not only fake, but it is 
damaging to a core ideal in our country, the independent and impartial 
rule of law that no man--even the President of the United States, even 
Donald Trump, think what he may--is above the rule of law.
  Special Counsel Mueller's investigation must be allowed to proceed 
unimpeded, and my friends on the other side of the aisle must help 
dispel the notion that his investigation is in any way partisan. To 
their great credit, many of my colleagues have done just that in the 
last 24 hours, and I salute them.
  The American people must have faith that when the very foundations of 
our democracy are shaken by a hostile foreign power, our independent 
judicial system built on the rule of law will not be degraded by 
partisan politics. We must loudly reject forces and actors that will 
try to make it so--on both ends of Pennsylvania Avenue. Our leaders--
our Republican leaders in the House and Senate--have an obligation to 
tell Donald Trump to lay off Mueller's investigation. Let it proceed 
where it goes. That is what our democracy is all about, and that is 
what leadership is all about.


                          Republican Tax Plan

  Mr. President, according to their timeline, House Republicans are set 
to release the details of their tax plan tomorrow. We will see if they 
can do it and, if so, just how detailed it will be. What everyone in 
America should focus on is the question of who exactly the Republican 
plan will benefit. Will it be the poor, the working class, or the 
middle class, or will it be big corporations and the richest 1 percent?
  We live in a time of immense inequality, so much so that it strains 
the bonds of affection that bind us together in this country. The 
wealthy have amassed astonishing wealth--and God bless them. We don't 
begrudge them for their success, but working Americans and middle-class 
Americans have slipped further and further behind. The President is 
surely aware of this. He rode into the White House by channeling the 
legitimate anger and anxiety of working-class Americans who have seen 
their wages diminished and their jobs shipped overseas.
  Will President Trump and his Republican Party, once in power, turn 
around and rewrite the Tax Code to benefit the wealthy few at the 
expense of the middle class? Will he do a 180-degree turn from what he 
campaigned on and what he talks about and pass a plan for the hard 
right--those wealthy thousand people who give so much money to the 
Republican Party and think tanks? Will he bow to them against 
everything he campaigned on and what he says? It sure seems so.
  On Wednesday, Republicans will likely propose to eliminate or 
substantially reduce the State and local tax deductibility, a bedrock 
middle-class deduction claimed by over one-third of all taxpayers--not 
just the wealthy--most of whom are in the middle class or the upper 
middle class. The proposal caused such angst in the House that it 
almost brought down the budget resolution. So Republicans have crafted 
a compromise that would allow taxpayers to claim State and local 
deductions on property taxes but not sales and income tax. That 
compromise would still cost taxpayers $900 billion.
  Taxpayers in high sales tax States, like Tennessee, Florida, and 
Nevada, would get whacked, as would taxpayers in high income tax 
States, like New York, New Jersey, California, Minnesota, and Colorado. 
Go figure that high property tax States, like Texas, Chairman Brady's 
State, would be better off under the proposal.
  Picking winners and losers like this doesn't solve the problem. The 
new State and local compromise is still a nearly $1 trillion tax hike 
on the middle class to pay for tax giveaways to big corporations and 
the very wealthy.
  I say to my Republican colleagues in the House, particularly to those 
from suburban and fairly affluent districts, middle-class and upper 
middle class

[[Page S6891]]

districts, that they vote for this compromise at the same peril as they 
voted for the bill that would totally eliminate State and local 
deductibility. The damage still remains, and don't think a small 
compromise--a small haircut--can let you escape from the political 
whirlwind you would reap if you vote for this bill.
  The Republicans are also likely to unveil tomorrow what they plan to 
do with 401(k)s. We have heard reports that Republicans want to tax 
401(k)s to get more revenue to pay for their tax giveaways to the rich. 
It is another clear example that this plan is not going to be for the 
middle class. The 401(k)s are one of the best tools we have to 
encourage Americans to start saving early for retirement. We know 
Americans aren't doing enough of that right now, at the same time that 
defined benefit plans are enjoyed by fewer Americans than in the past, 
as companies reduce or eliminate pensions. Why make it even harder for 
Americans to prepare for their retirement on their own by saving 
through 401(k)s? Why tax them so that you can give tax cuts to the very 
rich?
  We Democrats have a better deal to offer the American people on 
401(k)s. Rather than having Uncle Sam dip his hands into American 
retirement plans, we Democrats believe Americans deserve a helping hand 
when it comes to their retirement. In just a short time, we will 
release our 401(k) plan.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Strange). The Senator from Connecticut.


                              Gun Violence

  Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, last week, we voted on a judge who felt it 
necessary to sign up for a lifetime membership with a political 
organization in order to get his nomination forwarded back before this 
body.
  The judge we voted on last week became a lifetime member of the NRA 
in between his appointment by President Obama and, then, his 
appointment by President Trump--a signal, apparently, to the new 
Republican White House that he would align with their interests and 
views on issues related to the regulation of firearms in this country.
  We are going to see a parade of very interesting choices for the 
Federal judiciary come through this body, and they are going to be 
moved in rapid succession, as they are this week. I have been told that 
never before have we taken four votes on appellate nominees in a single 
week. Of course, that stands in contrast with the Republican Senate 
that refused to give even a hearing to one Supreme Court Justice over 
the entirety of 2016. I think it is worth noting that this body can 
move fast when it wants to, and yet we watched a Supreme Court seat be 
stolen by this Senate from a Democratic President who, by 
constitutional right, had the ability to make that appointment.
  I bring up the lifetime membership in the NRA because it is 
increasingly clear that you have to signal a level of extremism on 
issues like firearms in order to get your name brought before this 
body. That signal is wildly out of step with where the American public 
is on many of these issues.
  I have come to the floor over the course of the last 4 years every 
few weeks in order to talk about the fact that there is no other 
country in the world where 80 to 90 people every single day die from 
guns. The numbers are just absolutely stunning. Some 2,800 people a 
month die from guns, and 33,000 a year. The majority of those are 
suicides, but there are record numbers of homicides and accidental 
shootings in this country. Americans by and large don't accept this 
rate of slaughter. Americans want us to change our laws, and they don't 
want a judiciary that is going to stand in the way of Congress's 
ability to follow the wishes of our constituents.
  I have been coming down to the floor to tell the story of the 
victims. My hope is that, although the data hasn't moved this 
Congress--90 percent of Americans want stronger gun laws--the data 
incontrovertibly shows that in places that have universal background 
checks or laws requiring you to get local permits before you buy a gun, 
there are less gun crimes.
  Maybe if the data doesn't move my colleagues, the story of the 
victims will. Deon Rodney was shot on October 14 of this year, just a 
few weeks ago. He was working at Just Right Cutz, where he was a 
barber, in Bridgeport, CT. He was the 22nd homicide victim in 
Bridgeport this year.
  He had just finished cutting a young boy's hair in a chair when a 
masked gunman chased somebody else into the barbershop. Police said 
Deon was protecting the young boy, shielding the young boy from this 
intruder who came running in. He jumped out of his chair to try to get 
in between the boy sitting in the barber's chair and the gunman, and 
the gunman shot him.
  The owner of the barber shop said:

       Deon had just finished his haircut and the boy was getting 
     ready to go outside when the gunman came in. He saved 
     everyone in the barbershop.

  Deon was 31 years old. He left behind his wife, his mother, plenty of 
other family members, and an 8-year-old daughter.
  Speaking about their daughter, Deon's wife said:

       He loved her endlessly, unconditionally.

  His mother said:

       Deon is a part of me. He was my son, but he was also my 
     friend.

  His cousin said:

       I know that everyone is recognizing his heroism now, but he 
     was always like this. Always a role model and always willing 
     to give. Always willing to go out of his way to help a 
     stranger. Nothing has changed all these years. I guess I'm 
     glad that the masses can now see this.

  The owner of the barbershop went on to say of Deon:

       He's dead because of these people running around with guns.

  There are guns everywhere you look in cities like Bridgeport, New 
Haven, Hartford, New York or Chicago. People say: Why is that? Why are 
there all these guns--many of them, if not most of them, illegal guns--
if you have strong gun laws in places like New York, Illinois, and 
Connecticut? The reason is that gun trafficking doesn't recognize State 
boundaries, and the guns used to commit crimes in places like 
Connecticut come from outside of Connecticut.
  A comprehensive, groundbreaking survey of gun crimes in New York City 
found that 75 percent of the guns that are used to commit crimes in New 
York City come from outside of New York State. They come from States 
with looser gun laws, where you as a criminal can easily buy a gun 
without having to prove you are a responsible gun owner.
  How do all these illegal guns get into Bridgeport such that somebody 
can turn a corner and walk into a barbershop with a weapon in their 
hand? It is because criminals with criminal records go into gun shows 
in States that don't require background checks at those forums, buy up 
dozens of weapons, load them into their cars, and then drive up to 
States with tougher gun laws and sell them on the black market.
  Congress willingly allows this to happen because we have not moved 
our mandatory system of background checks to the places in which gun 
purchases are made today. Data is a little bit hard to pin down, but 
anywhere from 25 to 40 percent of gun sales today don't involve a 
background check. You can understand why. Sales have migrated to 
online. They have migrated to gun shows. They have gone to places where 
background checks aren't required.
  I mentioned what the data tells us when it comes to background 
checks. The data tells us background checks save lives. Here is one 
slice of the data. In States that have universal background check laws, 
47 percent fewer women get shot by an intimate partner than States 
without universal background check laws. That is because, in the heat 
of passion, domestic abusers often go to get a weapon and use it to 
perpetuate a domestic violence crime. You can't do that if you have a 
domestic violence history in a State with a universal background check 
law because wherever you go, you are going to be prohibited from buying 
that weapon.
  Since November of 1998, more than 2.4 million gun sales to prohibited 
purchasers have been prevented because of background checks; 2\1/2\ 
million people who were criminals or who were addicts or who were 
seriously mentally ill were stopped from buying guns because of our 
background check laws. Because we now have at least one-quarter of all 
sales happening without background checks, that means there are 
hundreds of thousands of criminals,

[[Page S6892]]

hundreds of thousands of people with serious mental illness who are 
able to buy guns. It is not surprising that 90 percent of Americans, 90 
percent of gun owners, 90 percent of Democrats, and 90 percent of 
Republicans support expanded background checks.
  I would argue there is not another issue out there in American 
politics today that enjoys 90 percent support amongst Republicans and 
Democrats. Senator Durbin corrected me the other day and said the 
latest survey states that the number is actually 94 percent support 
from Republicans and Democrats. The only slice of the American 
electorate that you can get under 90 percent support of background 
checks is NRA members. NRA members support universal background checks 
at a 75-percent clip. Background checks save lives, they are supported 
by the vast majority of the American public, and yet we can't get it 
done.
  This month, I, along with a couple dozen cosponsors, introduced a new 
version of legislation allowing for background checks to occur in every 
commercial sale that is conducted in this country, with commonsense 
exceptions, making sure that when you are gifting a firearm to a family 
member or you are loaning a gun to a friend who wants to take it to go 
hunting, you don't have to conduct a background check under those 
circumstances, but if it is a traditional arm's-length sale, then you 
have to go through a process, which normally takes 10 minutes in order 
to prove you are not a criminal. Again, this proposal is supported by 
90 percent of Americans. It is time we recognize that it is directly 
connected to this epidemic of gun violence that plagues the country.
  Let me close by making another argument to you. I know a lot of my 
Republican friends talk a lot on this floor and on the cable news shows 
about the threat of terrorism to this country. When the terrorists 
decided to use planes as their weapon of choice to attack our country, 
we changed the way our law protects us from attacks by airplanes. We 
made sure we screened individuals before they got on these planes to 
make sure they don't have weapons or bomb-making material that could 
ultimately threaten the rest of us. We now all take off our shoes every 
time we get on an airplane because we recognized that we needed to 
change our laws to understand that these planes were being used to 
attack American citizens.
  These terrorist groups have recognized that it is now pretty hard to 
get somebody with a weapon or an explosive device on a plane so they 
are now directing would-be attackers to a different forum. An issue of 
Rumiyah, which is Isis's propaganda magazine, encouraged recruits in 
the United States to take advantage of our loose gun laws. It 
specifically told people go to gun shows where you will not have to 
present identification or submit to background checks in order to buy 
military-style weapons that you can use to kill dozens of Americans. 
ISIS and al-Qaida are telling their potential recruits in the United 
States to go to gun shows so they don't have to submit themselves to a 
background check and so there is no paper trail of the gun they are 
buying in order to kill Americans.
  Why wouldn't we adjust our laws to recognize that the new weapon of 
choice of terrorists is not an airplane, but it is today a tactical 
weapon bought outside of the background check system. I have a million 
more reasons why we should do what 90 percent of the American people 
want, and someday maybe we will get there.
  So 33,000 people a year, 2,800 a month, 93 a day--that is a rate of 
gun violence that is not twice that of other industrialized nations. It 
is not 5 times, it is not 10 times, it is 20 times higher than the rate 
of gun violence in other industrialized countries in this world. It is 
not because we have more people who are mentally ill, and it is not 
because we spend less money on law enforcement. It is, by and large, 
because we have a set of gun laws that allow for illegal guns, 
dangerous weapons to flow into the hands of very dangerous people.
  I hope my Republican colleagues will take a look at the new 
background checks legislation I have introduced with many of my 
colleagues, and we can finally get to a place that 90 percent of our 
constituents want us to be.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Massachusetts is recognized.
  Ms. WARREN. Mr. President, just last week, the Republican-controlled 
Congress rammed through a budget with the sole purpose of allowing 
Republicans to enact a tax plan that would take money from working 
Americans and put it into the pockets of giant corporations and wealthy 
individuals. The following week they killed an important rule that 
would have made it easier for Americans to hold big banks and 
corporations accountable when they lie, cheat, and steal from working 
families.
  There have been countless stories of the Trump administration in 
disarray--juicy rumors of distrust and division between and among 
congressional Republicans and the White House, reports of Republicans' 
inability to advance key parts of their agenda, but that is only half 
the story. The other terrifying half is this. Since day one of this 
administration, President Trump and congressional Republicans have been 
working hard to make government work better and better for the rich and 
the powerful. While they have fumbled on their legislative agenda, they 
have been quietly working to help powerful interests capture our 
courts.
  That shouldn't come as a surprise. For decades, those powerful 
interests have poured eye-popping amounts of cash into electing 
politicians who will promote their interests in Washington. They have 
hand-picked politicians who will enact laws that will make it easier 
for corporations to abuse their workers or cheat their customers or 
make an extra buck and make it harder for agencies to hold them 
accountable for wrongdoing. They have executed a well-funded campaign 
to rig the rules of the game so the powerful always come out on top and 
the people come out on the bottom, and they know the courts are the 
place where they can shape the law for decades to come.
  Most Americans already know that while we have one set of laws on the 
books, we really have two different judicial systems. One justice 
system is for the rich and the powerful. In that system, government 
officials fret about being too tough on white-collar crime so wealthy 
individuals or giant corporations that break the law walk away with a 
small fine and a pinkie promise not to do it again, and when those 
executives break that promise, they get 2nd, 3rd, and 23rd chances. 
Every time they get caught, the cycle repeats. The corporation pays the 
fine, says some magic words, and everyone goes right back to breaking 
the law.
  The second justice system is for everyone else. In that system, tough 
on crime is the name of the game. People are locked up long before they 
go to trial because they don't have the money for bail. Individuals who 
commit minor, nonviolent offenses are slapped with long prison 
sentences, and even after they serve those sentences and are released, 
they are branded with a scarlet letter that creates barriers to 
employment, to housing, and to opportunity. That second justice system 
even traps families, children, and elderly parents whose families are 
blown apart and whose communities are destroyed.
  That second justice system has earned America the dubious title of 
holding the world's highest incarceration rate. Despite having less 
than 5 percent of the world's population, the United States holds more 
than 20 percent of the world's incarcerated population. Russia, China, 
and North Korea don't even come close--not only in raw numbers but in 
the percentage of their population behind bars. America's legal system 
is great at locking people up but terrible at doing what it is supposed 
to do, dispensing equal justice under law.
  Those words--``Equal Justice Under Law''--are etched into the front 
of the Supreme Court. If we truly believe those words, we need to start 
making some changes, and in recent years, we have seen some progress. 
Some State and local governments have made real efforts to reduce crime 
and lower incarceration rates. Massachusetts is one of the States 
leading the way with elected officials in both parties debating 
transformative changes to the judicial system aimed at replacing this 
tough-on-crime policy with smart-on-crime policies. The call for reform 
also extends to corporate crime. Public outrage at corporate greed has 
created

[[Page S6893]]

pressure to hold the rich and the powerful a little more accountable, 
but President Trump is committed to reversing that trend. He is working 
hand in hand with this Republican Congress to ensure that the rich get 
to play by their own set of rules while everyone else gets crushed 
under the awesome power of law enforcement.
  This week will be a big step forward for the two-part justice system 
as this Senate prepares to hand lifetime appointments to four judges 
whose careers make it clear that they have no interest at all in fixing 
our broken justice system.
  Let's take a look at their records.


                       Nomination of Allison Eid

  Colorado Supreme Court Justice Allison Eid, who was nominated to 
serve on the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals, has used her power as a 
State Supreme Court Justice to shield corporations from 
accountability. She has voted to make it harder for individuals to 
bring class action lawsuits against huge corporations that break the 
law. Sound familiar? Ms. Eid would fit right in with the Senate 
Republicans, who just voted to make it easier for big banks and 
financial institutions to cheat people and walk away scot-free.

  Ms. Eid also voted to deny workers' compensation to an employee who 
was injured at work and knocked unconscious because--get this--he 
couldn't remember the details of what happened. So Ms. Eid said that 
meant that there was going to be no liability there.
  This kind of blocking and tackling for powerful companies that hurt 
consumers and workers should be embarrassing. With this President and 
this White House, though, it buys a lifetime appointment to the Federal 
bench in order to shield corporations from the law on an even bigger 
stage.


                       Nomination of Joan Larsen

  Ms. Eid is not the only nominee up for consideration who would leave 
working Americans out in the cold. Michigan Supreme Court Justice Joan 
Larsen, who has been nominated to serve on the Sixth Circuit Court of 
Appeals, voted again and again to block injured plaintiffs from having 
their cases heard. Giant companies and millionaires liked her so much 
that they spent over half a million dollars to get her elected to the 
Michigan Supreme Court. And why wouldn't they? Now she is going to be 
elevated to a lifetime appointment on the Federal bench, and that is a 
pretty good return on their investment.
  Yes, these judicial nominees have bent over backward to help the 
wealthy and the well-connected escape accountability, but that is only 
half of the story. Trump nominees have a very different view of what 
justice means for individuals who lack the money or the resources to 
pay high-powered legal teams or to pay political campaigns to influence 
judge decisions and judge selection.


                     Nomination of Stephanos Bibas

  This week, the Senate will also vote on the nomination of Stephanos 
Bibas to sit on the Third Circuit Court of Appeals. Mr. Bibas worked as 
a Federal prosecutor in Manhattan. You would think that there would be 
plenty of work for a Federal prosecutor with oversight of Wall Street 
and all of the other corporate executives in New York City. You would 
think that, but you would be wrong. Mr. Bibas's most famous case 
involved prosecuting a 51-year-old woman who was accused of stealing $7 
from the cash register at her cafeteria job. That is right. While going 
to work every day in the shadow of Wall Street, Mr. Bibas decided that 
it was the best use of his time and Federal Government resources to 
pursue a $7 case. He eventually lost the case but not before the woman 
lost her job.
  Then there is Amy Coney Barrett, President Trump's nominee for the 
Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals. She has also taken a throw-the-book-
at-them approach to crime--at least to not-white-collar crime. She 
believes that the Miranda doctrine, which protects criminal defendants 
from coercive police tactics, is not required by the Constitution, and 
she has criticized efforts to reverse the damage that has been done by 
the sentencing disparity between powder and crack cocaine--a disparity 
that has been rightly criticized by Republicans, Democrats, religious 
leaders, and civic leaders across this country as rooted in our long 
history of racial disparities in law enforcement.
  We have two justice systems in America--one for the rich and powerful 
and one for everyone else. Part of the way we fix that problem is by 
making sure that we put judges on the Federal bench who are fair, 
impartial, and committed to dispensing equal justice under the law. 
Fair and impartial judges are supposed to stand up for justice when 
prosecutors try to ruin someone's life over allegedly grabbing seven 
bucks from the cash register. They are supposed to stand up for justice 
when consumers and workers seek a day in court against giant companies 
that have injured them. But the judges before the Senate this week do 
not stand up for justice; instead, they stand up for the powerful 
against the people who desperately need someone who will be fair even 
to those who do not have money. These nominees are right at home in 
Washington's rigged system. They are judges who will continue to apply 
one set of rules to the rich and powerful and an entirely different set 
of rules to everyone else.
  It is no wonder that Americans are so angry with Washington. They 
have had it up to their eyeballs with bought-and-paid-for politicians 
who spend more time catering to their wealthy benefactors than 
promoting the interests of constituents who are back home. They are 
tired of giant corporations getting a slap on the wrist for massive 
wrongdoing while people from their hometowns linger in prison for minor 
crimes. They know the legal system is deeply unjust and badly broken.
  It is up to us--to every Member of this Chamber--to fix that broken 
system. Rejecting judicial nominees who will make it worse is a really 
good first step. It is not just the right thing to do, it is what the 
American people sent us here to do.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, I have the opportunity to speak to this 
body today about Amy Barrett. Her nomination is currently pending to be 
a circuit court judge. There is a pretty high standard for those 
individuals because they handle some incredibly difficult 
constitutional cases. What is good about this is that Amy Barrett meets 
the high standard for those qualifications.
  Professor Barrett received her B.A. in English literature magna cum 
laude from Rhodes College and her J.D. summa cum laude from Notre Dame 
University Law School, where she served as executive editor of the 
Notre Dame Law Review.
  She currently serves as a research professor of law at Notre Dame 
University Law School. Professor Barrett teaches and researches in the 
areas of Federal courts, constitutional law, and statutory 
interpretation, publishing scholarship in leading legal journals, such 
as the Columbia, Virginia, and Texas Law Reviews. Those aren't easy 
areas to be able to publish in or an easy professorship to be able to 
land.
  Before joining Notre Dame, Professor Barrett clerked for Justice 
Scalia of the Supreme Court of the United States and for Judge 
Silberman of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the DC Circuit. Following 
her clerkships, she was an associate, where she litigated 
constitutional, criminal, and commercial cases both in trial and 
appellate courts. Professor Barrett also served as a visiting associate 
professor at George Washington University Law School.
  She seems to be eminently qualified. Then what seems to be the issue? 
Interestingly enough, she faced a very odd set of questions during her 
confirmation process--questions not about her legal scholarship, not 
about her qualifications, but, oddly enough, about her Catholic faith. 
It wasn't about her temperament. It wasn't about her fairness. It 
wasn't about scholarship. It was whether her Catholic faith would get 
in the way of her being a good judge. Quite frankly, it wasn't about 
whether she had chosen a faith; it was the problem that she actually 
seemed to live her faith that became a big challenge during the 
questioning time period.

[[Page S6894]]

  It is odd for us as Americans because this seems to be an issue we 
resolved 200-plus years ago. We resolved it in article VI of the 
Constitution, which says that there is no religious test for any 
officer of the United States. There is no requirement to be of a 
certain faith or, if you are of a certain faith, to take that faith off 
if you are going to serve in the United States. We have in our 
Constitution a protection not of freedom of worship, which I hear some 
people say--they are free to worship as they choose--that is not our 
constitutional protection. Our constitutional protection is the free 
exercise of your religion--not just that you can have a faith, but you 
can both have a faith and live your faith according to your own 
principles. That is consistent with who we are as Americans, that we 
allow any individual to have a faith and to live their faith both in 
their private and public life or to have no faith at all if they choose 
to have no faith at all. That is a decision for each American.
  But we don't ask individuals--as has been asked of this individual--
whether faith will be the big issue and whether faith becomes a 
question in whether they are capable to serve other fellow Americans.
  What is so dangerous, quite frankly, about her Catholic faith and her 
Christian beliefs as far as her being a judge? Are people afraid that 
she will actually live out what the Book of Proverbs says--to speak up 
for those who cannot speak for themselves, speak for the rights of all 
who are destitute, speak up and judge fairly, defend the rights of the 
poor and the needy? Is that what everyone is afraid of, that she will 
actually live out that Biblical principle?
  I am a little confused why comments, such as ``The dogma lives loudly 
within you,'' were said during her questioning in the committee, and 
there were other questions to challenge her Catholic faith. Faith is a 
choice that each individual has, and it is an extremely personal but 
also extremely important choice.
  Some individuals in America--myself included--choose to look past the 
mundane, day-to-day events and to think there is someone and something 
higher than us. We don't just look at the creation around us; we wonder 
about the Creator who made it. We don't just wonder about cosmic dust 
smashing into each other; we ask a logical question: If cosmic dust 
were to smash into each other in space and create all there is, who 
made space and who made the cosmic dust that smashed into each other, 
and how did that happen? Faith drives us to ask harder questions and to 
look a little longer at things that other people just see as plain in 
front of them. We ask what is behind it. A lot of Americans do. It is 
not irrational; it is a part of who we are and a part of how we are 
made.
  It is a challenge to us as Americans to be able to challenge an 
individual and to say: That person is so radical that they believe in 
things like do not murder, do not steal, do not covet, honor your 
father and mother, or even things as radical as, in whatever you do, do 
unto others as you would have them do unto you.
  It doesn't seem that radical of a belief that we would have to 
challenge and wonder whether one was able to be a judge if they believe 
in those things. We dare to believe in something beyond us, as do 
millions of other Americans.
  I really thought that our Nation was past this, that our Nation that 
speaks so much of diversity and of being open to other ideas is somehow 
closing to people of faith. People who say they want to demand that 
everyone be included are afraid of people who have faith and live their 
faith. Why would that be? If we are going to be an open society, is it 
not open as well to people of faith to not only have a faith but to 
live their faith?
  We hit a moment like this in the 1960s, and I thought we had moved 
past it. There was a Senator at that time who was running to be 
President of the United States. We know him as John Kennedy.
  Senator Kennedy was speaking to a group of ministers in Houston, TX, 
in the 1960s, and he had to stand before them and explain his Catholic 
faith because, quite frankly, there was this buzz: Could someone be a 
Catholic and be President? What would that mean? Would you have 
difficulties with that?
  The questions that were asked of Professor Barrett were strikingly 
similar to the questions that were asked of Senator Kennedy when he was 
running to be President of the United States. Here is how Senator 
Kennedy responded:

       For while this year it may be a Catholic against whom the 
     finger of suspicion is pointed, in other years it has been, 
     and may some day be again, a Jew--or a Quaker or a Unitarian 
     or a Baptist. It was Virginia's harassment of Baptist 
     preachers, for example, that helped lead to Jefferson's 
     statute of religious freedom. Today I may be the victim, but 
     tomorrow it may be you--until the whole fabric of our 
     harmonious society is ripped at a time of great national 
     peril. . . . And in fact, this is the kind of America for 
     which our forefathers died, when they fled here to escape 
     religious test oaths that denied office to members of less 
     favored churches; when they fought for the Constitution, the 
     Bill of Rights, and the Virginia Statute of Religious 
     Freedom; and when they fought at the shrine I visited today, 
     the Alamo.

  JFK had visited the Alamo that day.

       For side by side with Bowie and Crockett died McCafferty 
     and Bailey and Carey. But no one knows whether they were 
     Catholic or not, for there was no religious test at the 
     Alamo.

  Then he made this closing statement:

       If I should lose on the real issues [of the Presidential 
     race], I shall return to my seat in the Senate, satisfied 
     that I had tried my best and was fairly judged. But if this 
     election is decided on the basis that 40 million Americans 
     lost their chance of being president on the day they were 
     baptized, then it is the whole nation that will be the loser, 
     in the eyes of Catholics and non-Catholics around the world, 
     in the eyes of history, and in the eyes of our own people.

  This should be a settled issue for us, not a divisive one. We are a 
diverse nation--diverse in backgrounds, perspectives, attitudes, and 
yes, diverse in faith.
  I look forward to supporting Professor Barrett in this position, and 
I look forward to seeing her decisions as they come out of that court, 
consistent with the law--as she is well trained to be able to do--and 
consistent with our convictions as Americans.
  With that, I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Virginia.


                Authorization for Use of Military Force

  Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, I rise to speak on a topic I have often 
spoken about on the floor.
  We have been at continuous war since September 14, 2001, when 
Congress passed an Authorization for Use of Military Force to go after 
the perpetrators of the 9/11 attacks. That was 16 years, 1 month, and 
18 days ago as of today.
  The war in Afghanistan is the longest armed conflict in America's 
history, and it shows no signs of abating, even 6 years after the death 
of Osama bin Laden. The conflict has been going on for so long that 
many are somewhat immune to it. I heard a high schooler recently say: 
War is all I have ever known. It is the status quo. It is the 
background music to daily life.
  Yet only 0.4 percent of the population of the United States serves in 
the military. That is down from 1.8 percent in 1968 and 8.7 percent in 
1945, so it is increasingly unlikely that many of us even know those 
who are deployed and fighting in this ever-expanding global conflict.
  Sadly, last week, for tragic reasons, these issues were brought to 
the forefront with the death of four brave American servicemembers in 
Niger: Army SGT La David Johnson, SGT Bryan Black, SGT Jeremiah 
Johnson, and SGT Dustin Wright.
  Two of those killed--the two Sergeants Johnson--were part of a 12-man 
patrol whose mission is not clear. We know that their trained military 
occupational specialties--vehicle mechanic and chemical-biological 
specialist--were outside traditional combat roles.
  In a June war powers letter, the Department of Defense described the 
mission of over 645 military personnel in Niger as ``advise and 
assist,'' but none of the varying accounts of what took place in early 
October seem to support that seemingly benign summary of what occurred.
  Frustration over this lack of understanding of that mission and the 
events that transpired were shared by everyone from Secretary Mattis to 
all the Members here. I can't imagine what the servicemembers on duty 
and their families must be feeling. We see the strain that an ever-
expanding operational commitment is having on our

[[Page S6895]]

military, from our servicemembers relying upon foreign countries or 
contractors to provide critical air support where servicemen are 
stranded on the battlefield for over a day, to our warships, for which 
schedules have been so strained that their crews are unable to safely 
navigate international waters.
  Being a Senator from Virginia, a State with one of the largest 
military presences that is home to tens of thousands of servicemembers 
and their families, I have a personal responsibility to ensure that 
these strains don't lead to any more tragic mistakes.
  The attack in Niger has also laid bare other issues: how little 
information is provided to Congress about U.S. troops deployed abroad 
equipped for combat; how little Congress exercises the authority and 
oversight of these issues and demands information to debate before the 
public; and the possible ``mission creep'' and growth of military 
forces in Africa--an increase by a factor of 17 over the past decade--
in which hundreds of missions are being run daily in over 20 countries 
where there is no specific authorization for use of military force 
provided by Congress. The Niger operation really identified a gray area 
between advising and assisting in combat operations, which keeps some 
deployments just beyond the tripwire of requiring congressional 
notification.
  SASC held a briefing last week with the Department of Defense to try 
to understand the scope of the Niger mission, the reason for the 
escalation of our footprint, and why this surprising attack left our 
troops without support for so long.
  But beyond the immediate tactical answers, we need a strategic and 
fundamental understanding of how and where this country engages in 
military operations and if the war on terror has become the ``forever 
war'' with ever-changing objectives and no end in sight, absolving the 
need for Congress to weigh in and speak.
  Yesterday, in Foreign Relations, we held a much overdue hearing on 
legal authorization for military force. We heard solid testimony and 
straightforward answers by Secretaries of State Tillerson and Mattis. I 
am encouraged that we had the hearing, and I am encouraged that our 
chair, at the end of the hearing, expressed the desire to move forward 
to finally, after 16-plus years, engage in a debate and a congressional 
vote on war authorization.
  I was disappointed that the two Secretaries, who were being candid, 
took the position that the Trump administration needs no more legal 
authority to do what they are doing. But I have to acknowledge the 
position they take is actually the position that the Obama 
administration took, and it is exactly the position that the Bush 
administration took, so I was not completely surprised. In fact, we 
shouldn't be surprised when the administration says: We don't need any 
more authority. But of course, we are not playing ``Mother May I'' on 
this question. It is Congress's role, pursuant to article I, to declare 
war.
  I disagree with the legal analyses offered by all three 
administrations. I was tough on President Obama about this, as well, 
that the 60-word authorization from 2001 covers military action all 
over the globe. But there is some legal dispute about the question, 
still.
  Beyond the legal question, there are also questions of moral 
authority, political authority, and the abdication of responsibility in 
this body. Seventy-five percent of the Members of Congress today were 
not even here when the 2001 authorization was passed and, thus, have 
never had to cast a vote on it, even as our men and women risk their 
lives and, in some instances, are killed in action.
  Simply put, the 2001 AUMF has become a golden ticket that justifies 
U.S. military action against terrorist groups all over the globe 
without the need for additional congressional approval. I am not 
surprised the Executive wants to keep it that way. Who wouldn't prefer 
such flexibility? But we have a job to do.
  Here is what we need to do. This is what I think needs to happen. We 
need to end the legal gymnastics with the 2001 AUMF--a 60-word 
authorization against the perpetrators of 9/11. Applying that now to 
the fight against ISIL, Boko Haram, and others is a stretch. The AUMF 
outlines the focus of military action as follows: ``Nations, 
organizations, or persons [the President] determines planned, 
authorized, committed, or aided the terrorist attacks that occurred on 
September 11, 2001, or harbored such organizations or persons.''
  There were 19 hijackers for the 9/11 attacks, and we have now used 
the 2001 AUMF in 37 instances to send forces prepared for combat and 
engaged in combat to 14 nations, including Libya, Turkey, Georgia, 
Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan, Yemen, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Djibouti, Somalia, 
Kenya, the Philippines, and Cuba.
  Were all of these instances and nations and places really associated 
with planning or support of the attacks of 9/11? These legal 
interpretations are in addition to now countless ``train and advise'' 
missions around the world, to include those that took the lives of the 
four servicemembers in Niger.
  This was not an unforeseen combat environment. I found this 
interesting. In April of 2014, the U.S. Government--the Department of 
the Navy--solicited contractual bids for ``Personnel Recovery, Casualty 
Evacuation, and Search and Rescue,'' aviation support in ``at risk'' 
environments in the following 14 countries: Algeria, Burkina Faso, 
Chad, Libya, Mali, Morocco, Niger, Nigeria, Cameroon, Cote D'Ivoire, 
Ghana, Benin, Togo, Tunisia and as directed by operational 
requirements. Only 5 of those 14 countries have ever been notified to 
Congress, pursuant to war powers letters, but we are planning to engage 
in casualty evacuation in connection with high-risk activities in all 
of these countries in Africa.
  I would like to have a process that informs Congress--and informs the 
public--that is equal in transparency to what we put in contracting 
documents to inform military contractors. So Senator Flake and I have 
introduced an authorization for military force intended to keep the 
Congress and the American people not only informed of our military 
operations but also engaged in carrying out our constitutional duty. 
The intent is to recognize the fluid environment in which our military 
must operate to implement the counterterrorism campaign.
  Terrorist organizations don't necessarily operate in just one 
country. They don't follow Geneva Conventions. It is a different kind 
of military action, but the requirement for congressional approval is 
no less important. We need to make our legal authorities, which are now 
dated, current and appropriately scoped.
  I applaud my Foreign Relations chair, Senator Corker, who, after the 
hearing yesterday, said that we would move to a markup and clearly, I 
suspect, an amendment of the proposal Senator Flake and I have put on 
the table. We have done a lot of work on it. A war authorization should 
be bipartisan. If anything in this body should be bipartisan, I think a 
war authorization should be. We don't pretend that we have thought of 
everything; we don't pretend that the bill cannot be improved.
  In conclusion, I want to make a few comments. This week, the New York 
Times reported that President Trump has approved--without providing 
Members of Congress any information on why these changes are 
necessary--changes giving the Department of Defense and the CIA more 
latitude in pursuing ``counterterrorism drone strikes and commando 
raids'' against Islamic terrorist groups scattered across the world, 
all while using the 2001 AUMF as its legal justification. This 
expansion of war will only continue to magnify and mutate and will do 
so without public scrutiny, unless and until Congress steps up to 
provide the oversight and legal authority we are required to do.
  I have come to the floor of the Senate since I came here in 2013 to 
speak about war powers, to speak about a need to revise the War Powers 
Resolution of 1974, to critique and challenge President Obama around 
the Libya mission, which had no vote from Congress, and to critique 
President Obama--who is a personal friend--over the offensive campaign 
against ISIL without requiring a congressional vote. Since I was clear 
and repetitive in my critiques of President Obama for using war powers 
without Congress being involved, I am going to do the same with respect 
to President Trump.

[[Page S6896]]

  At the end of the day, my critique is more about this body. An 
Executive will overreach. An Executive will act, but that does not 
excuse inaction in this body.
  I do worry about a progressive loosening of the rules from the Bush 
administration to the Obama administration to the Trump administration, 
which eventually has turned the 2001 AUMF into a golden ticket that 
allows for action against nonstate terrorist groups anywhere in the 
world on a Presidential say-so.
  We shouldn't take our institutions and, frankly, the fairly radical 
rebalancing of powers in the Constitution for granted. When Madison and 
the other drafters put the declaration of war authority in the hands of 
Congress, they knew they were doing something pretty radical. They knew 
the world of the day--1787, 230 years ago last month--was a world of 
Kings, Emperors, Monarchs, Sultans, and Popes. War was primarily for 
the Executive, but they decided they wanted to do something different. 
Ten years after the Constitution was done, Thomas Jefferson, as 
President, was grappling with a nonstate terrorist group in Northern 
Africa--the Barbary Coast pirates--and what could be done about them? 
He wrote a letter to James Madison and asked what was behind the war-
making powers in the Constitution's article I. Madison described it 
very well. He said: Our constitution supposes what the history of all 
governments demonstrates, that it is the Executive most interested in 
war and, thus, most prone to war. For this reason, we, with studied 
care, granted the question of war in the legislature.
  They were trying to change human history. They were trying to say 
that we shouldn't be at war unless there was a legislative, collective 
judgment--not 116 years ago by 25 percent of the people who were there 
then, but a legislative, collective judgment expressed in an 
authorization that we should be in war. We are lacking that now.
  It is not hard to imagine a future President, whether it is President 
Trump in the remainder of his term or Presidents in the future, using 
the expanding war authorities to increasingly justify initiating war 
without the permission of Congress.
  We asked President Trump for the legal authority justifying the 
Syrian missile strike on Syria that he made in March, and they have not 
yet provided an answer about their legal authority. What Congress has 
done is basically told Presidents: You can do whatever you want. That 
has a way of creeping and growing, and I think it already has. I think 
the American people deserve better, but, especially, our troops deserve 
better.
  I have said it before; I will say it again. I can't think of anything 
more publicly immoral--public, civic immorality--than ordering troops 
to risk their lives and be killed, as the four were in Niger, while 
Congress is unwilling to cast a vote because this would be a 
politically difficult vote: I would rather not vote; I would rather 
make the President do it and blame the President if it works out badly. 
A political calculation has caused Congress to abdicate a 
responsibility while others are shouldering the burdens of 
responsibility--and even losing their lives in the process.
  Finally, Senator Jacob Javits wrote a book in 1973 entitled ``Who 
Makes War'' after Congress passed the War Powers Resolution during the 
Vietnam war. He offered a very prescient commentary. I will close here:

       Many advocates of presidential prerogative in the field of 
     war and foreign policy seem to be arguing that the 
     President's powers as Commander in Chief are what the 
     President alone defines them to be. The implication that the 
     Presidency is beyond the range of congressional authority to 
     check in the exercise of the war powers raises a serious 
     constitutional danger. If we accept such a view we accept a 
     situation in which the American people are dependent solely 
     on the benign intent and good judgment of the incumbent 
     President. We may not always be fortunate enough to see a 
     person with such qualities in the White House.

  With that, I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Cruz). The clerk will call the roll.
  The bill clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mr. THUNE. I ask unanimous consent that I be able to speak until such 
time as my remarks are concluded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                               Tax Reform

  Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, the House and the Senate are moving forward 
on a final draft of our tax reform bill, and I am excited about the 
progress we are making. We have one goal in mind with tax reform. It is 
to provide real relief to ordinary Americans--to the parents who are 
questioning whether they can afford the car they need to fit their 
growing family, to the single mom who is wondering how she is going to 
pay the bills this month, and to the middle-age couple worrying about a 
secure retirement. Everything in our tax reform framework is centered 
on providing relief to these Americans.
  To start with, we are going to provide them with a substantial amount 
of direct relief by lowering their tax rates and doubling the standard 
deduction so that they are keeping more of their paycheck every month.
  We are also going to significantly expand the child tax credit.
  And we are going to simplify and streamline the Tax Code so that it 
is easier for Americans to figure out what benefits they qualify for 
and so they don't have to spend a lot of time and money filing their 
taxes.
  All of these reforms mean more money in Americans' pockets. But we 
are not stopping there. We are also going to focus on reforming the 
business side of the Tax Code so that we can give Americans access to 
the kind of jobs, wages, and opportunities that will set them up for a 
secure future.
  In order for individual Americans to thrive economically, we need 
American businesses to thrive. Thriving businesses create jobs. They 
provide opportunities. They increase wages and invest in their workers, 
and they invest in new equipment, facilities, and product lines to 
innovate and expand their businesses.
  Right now, though, our Tax Code is not helping businesses thrive. 
Instead, it is strangling both large and small businesses with high tax 
rates.
  Our Nation has the highest corporate tax rate in the industrialized 
world--at least 10 percentage points higher than the majority of our 
international competitors. That is a problem for American workers 
because high tax rates leave businesses with less money to invest in 
their workers, to increase wages, or to create new jobs. This situation 
is compounded when you are an American business with international 
competitors that are paying a lot less in taxes than you are.
  It is no surprise that U.S. businesses struggling to stay competitive 
in the global economy don't have a lot of resources to devote to 
creating new jobs and increasing wages. A study from the White House 
Council of Economic Advisers estimates that reducing the corporate tax 
rate from 35 percent down to 20 percent would increase average 
household income by $4,000 annually.
  A second study shows a similar pay increase. Boston University 
professor and public finance expert Larry Kotlikoff found that lowering 
the corporate tax rate to 20 percent would increase household income by 
$3,500 per year on average. That is a significant pay raise for hard-
working Americans.
  In addition to lowering the corporate tax rate, there is another 
important thing we can do to increase the availability of jobs here at 
home; that is, reforming our outdated, worldwide tax system. Under our 
worldwide tax system, American companies pay U.S. taxes on the profit 
they make here at home, as well as on part of the profit they make 
abroad, once they bring that money home to the United States.
  The problem with this is that most other major world economies have 
shifted from a worldwide tax system to what is called a territorial tax 
system. In a territorial tax system, you pay taxes on the money you 
earn where you make it and only there. You aren't taxed again when you 
bring money back to your home country.
  Most American companies' foreign competitors have been operating 
under a territorial tax system for years. So they are paying a lot less 
in taxes on the money they make abroad than American companies are, and 
that

[[Page S6897]]

leaves American companies at a disadvantage.
  These foreign companies can underbid American companies for new 
business simply because they don't have to add as much in taxes into 
the price of their products or services. When foreign companies beat 
out American companies for new business, it is not just American 
companies that suffer. It is American workers. It is the American 
workers employed by these companies who live and work in literally 
every State in the Union, and it is the American workers who work for 
the small and medium-sized companies that form the supply chain here in 
the United States.
  For every American company that operates in countries around the 
world, there are countless companies here at home that supply the raw 
material for the products that are sold abroad--businesses that handle 
the packaging and shipping of those product and enterprises that supply 
support services like accounting, legal, and payroll services.
  America's global companies rely on a web of supporting businesses 
that spans the country, and when these global companies struggle, so do 
these supporting businesses and their workers.
  By transitioning from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax 
system, we will not be just boosting wages, jobs, and opportunities for 
American workers employed by these global companies, but we will also 
be increasing wages, jobs, and opportunities for workers at the 
countless small and medium-sized businesses throughout our country that 
make up the supply chain for America's global companies.
  Finally, our tax plan will tackle the other key part of improving the 
playing field for American workers; that is, lowering the tax rates on 
small businesses.
  Small businesses are incredibly important for new job creation, but 
like big companies, right now small businesses are being strangled by 
high tax rates. That can make it difficult for small businesses to even 
survive, much less thrive and expand their operations. Lowering small 
business tax rates and making it easier for small businesses to recover 
their invested capital more quickly will free up the money that small 
business owners need to expand their businesses to add workers or to 
give employees a raise.
  Together, these aspects of tax reform are essential to reversing the 
lackluster economy of the last 8 years. Americans deserve better, and 
tax reform can be the key to putting this country back on the path to 
solid, sustainable economic growth.
  Mr. President, before I close today, I wish to switch gears for a 
minute and talk about judicial nominations. We have had the chance to 
confirm some excellent nominees so far this year, many of whom 
Democrats have ultimately supported. But despite this fact, Democrats 
have insisted on delaying the process of almost every single nomination 
to a district or circuit court. That is pretty much the definition of 
partisanship--when you obstruct nominees based not on any disagreement 
you have with them but simply because you don't like the person who is 
doing the nominating.
  Democrats' delays are ultimately pretty pointless. We are not going 
to stop confirming nominees just because Democrats are dragging out the 
process, but these delays are a disservice to the American people. 
There are a lot of important issues that the Senate needs to be 
debating, from spending bills to tax reform, and the time that we waste 
on pointless partisan exercises is time taken from those important 
issues.
  While Democrats' partisanship is frustrating, there is a much more 
serious issue that has come up during these judicial confirmations; 
that is, the anti-religious sentiment displayed by some of my 
colleagues on the other side of the aisle during the hearing on 
judicial nominee Amy Barrett's nomination, which we will be voting on 
this week.
  Ms. Barrett's qualifications are well known. The American Bar 
Association, which rates judicial nominees, has given her its highest 
rating of ``well qualified.''
  As my colleague the minority leader has said, the American Bar 
Association's evaluation is the ``gold standard by which judicial 
candidates are judged.''
  Despite her judicial qualifications, it became clear in the hearing 
on her nomination that some of my colleagues think she should be 
disqualified because she is a practicing Catholic. That is right. 
Apparently, practicing your religion is now grounds for declaring you 
unfit to be a judge.
  Here is what the Constitution has to say about that. This is from 
article VI: ``No religious Test shall ever be required as a 
Qualification to any Office or public Trust under the United States.''
  Let me repeat that: ``No religious Test shall ever be required as a 
Qualification to any Office or public Trust under the United States.''
  In other words, in the United States, you can't be disqualified from 
serving as a judge because you are a believing Catholic or a believing 
member of any faith. The only qualification the Constitution imposes is 
a commitment to uphold the Constitution.
  Yet the second-ranking Democrat in the Senate apparently thought it 
was appropriate to ask Ms. Barrett if she was a practicing member of 
her religion, with the implication that if she was, it might jeopardize 
her fitness for being a judge.
  Democrats' questioning is not going to stop Ms. Barrett's nomination, 
but it is simply disturbing, nonetheless. It is a scary thing when 
leaders of a major political party imply that there is no role for 
religious people in public life.
  I don't need to tell anybody that that is contrary to everything our 
Founders stood for. The right to be able to practice religion freely--
yes, in public, too--was so fundamental to the Founders' understanding 
of liberty that they made it the very first freedom mentioned in the 
Bill of Rights.
  People of faith have made incalculable contributions to our country, 
and faith has driven some of the greatest movements in American 
history, from the abolitionist movement to the civil rights movement.
  I hope the Democratic Party doesn't move further down the path of 
excluding religious people from public life. If they ever succeed in 
excluding people of faith from government, they will have destroyed one 
of the freedoms on which our country rests.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Alaska.
  Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent for an 
appropriate amount of time to finish my remarks.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                      Tribute to Chris Apassingok

  Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, one of the privileges of being in the 
Senate is actually being able to preside, as the Presiding Officer is 
doing right now--to sit at the Chair and listen and watch my colleagues 
talk about issues that matter to them, and a lot of times issues that 
matter to their States. In this amazing country of ours we have so many 
great States, great stories, and great traditions. When I am presiding, 
some relate to Texas, where the current Presiding Officer is from, 
celebrating our unique traditions, while still appreciating that at our 
best we share values as Americans together--opportunity, liberty, 
justice, and fairness. It really is one of the things that makes the 
Senate a great body and what makes us strong as a nation.
  One of the things I like to do is to come to the Senate floor and 
talk about some of the traditions in my State--some of the things that 
I think make Alaska the greatest State in the Nation. I know some of my 
colleagues will not fully agree with that, but we all get to brag about 
our State. When I do that, I like to talk about an individual whom we 
recognize as the Alaskan of the Week. Often, it is somebody who is 
doing something in a remote part of Alaska whom not a lot of people 
know about. It is very important to share that with my colleagues in 
the Senate and other colleagues watching on TV.
  Today, I would like to recognize a young Alaskan from Gambell, AK, 
named Chris Apassingok, a young whaler who is helping to keep the 
tradition that we have in Alaska--Native whaling--alive and well. He is 
our Alaskan of the Week.
  This year, Chris was a keynote speaker at the Elders and Youth 
Conference, which is a precursor to the

[[Page S6898]]

Alaska Federation of Natives conference held each year in one of our 
cities. It is the largest annual gathering in the United States of any 
Native peoples, and there is nothing like it in all the country. AFN, 
as we call it in Alaska, is certainly a highlight of my year. My wife 
and I and our kids always try to get there.
  Let me spend a few minutes talking about why Chris's speech about 
whaling was so important and what happened after he landed a huge 
bowhead whale in Alaska and why that was so inspiring for so many in my 
great State and, really, around the country.
  Gamble, AK, is where Chris comes from, a Yupik village of about 700 
people on St. Lawrence Island, on the northwest edge of Alaska. It is 1 
of 11 Alaska communities that participate in two whaling seasons, 
recognized and authorized by the International Whaling Commission. 
These are subsistence communities. What does that mean? They are 
subsistence communities because whale meat is actually a necessity in 
feeding these communities.
  I should point out that we have no road systems at all in Northern 
Alaska. Most of Alaska has no roads connected from community to 
community, and certainly not in Gambell. The Presiding Officer and I 
have had the opportunity to travel around Alaska. He has seen our great 
State. He knows that many communities are only accessible by air or 
seasonal barge. Some areas can only be reached at certain times of the 
year because of the weather. These communities need food. They need 
whales.
  The annual bowhead whale migration provides the largest subsistence 
resource available in these remote areas of our great State. Even so, 
when a whale is taken, the sharing does not stop with the residents of 
the community. Each whale produces between 6 and 25 tons of food, on 
average. This meat is shared with other subsistence communities in our 
State and with family members and elders throughout the State. That is 
a hugely important part of Alaskan Native culture. This is another 
example of the resourcefulness of the Alaskan Native peoples, which has 
enabled them to survive in the Arctic--with some of the toughest 
weather and conditions anywhere in the world for millennia--and which 
has shaped the culture of Alaska and the character of our State today.
  Back to Chris, he is an extraordinary hunter, even by the standards 
of Gambell, a community of extraordinary hunters. He could aim and 
shoot a rifle at the age of 5. By 11, he had trained himself to strike 
whales, as one writer put it, ``standing steady in the front of the 
skiff with the gun, riding Bering Sea swells like a snowboarder.''
  This past April, Chris and his father set out on a boat in the Bering 
Sea to do what their ancestors have been doing for thousands of years.
  After they got a bearded seal, they spotted a spouting bowhead. Chris 
took the first shot, it was accurate, and it was a huge whale, 57 feet 
11 inches. It took 2 hours to tow it to shore and 4 days for the 
community to carve it up. As always, when a whale is landed, it is time 
for celebration in the community, and this time was no different, but 
shortly after this, things unfortunately went sour for Chris and the 
community.
  A radical special interest activist, with a large online following, 
read the story about Chris and the whale and he began to attack Chris 
and so did many of his followers, from all across the globe--hundreds 
of people, most of them adults, cyber bullying and attacking a 16-year-
old boy from Gambell, AK, who had, at that point, only left his village 
once in his life.
  They were shameful, no respect, no civility, and I mean vicious 
attacks. I will not repeat them here. It is enough to say they were 
greatly upset. In the community, Chris, his family, and his mother 
cried all night. Chris was angry that he and his family were being 
attacked for partaking in this necessary tradition that his community 
and his ancestors have been doing for thousands of years--thousands of 
years.
  However, this young man, despite the hateful messages from adults, 
from adults who live a world away, despite the names they were calling 
him, Chris, now 17, cut through the noise, stood strong, and gave a 
great speech at AFN, that he will continue to hunt and feed his family 
and his community the way his ancestors have done for millennia.
  At his speech last week at AFN, he asked: ``Will you stand with me as 
I continue my hunting [traditions of my family]?'' The crowd applauded, 
all of whom rose when he asked this: ``Will you stand with me'' as we 
continue our subsistence activities that we have undertaken for 
thousands of years?
  I hope everyone across the country stands with this extraordinary 
young man--truly brave and courageous--as he continues his tradition 
and his right to hunt and feed his community.
  This afternoon, I will be holding a hearing in the Commerce Committee 
about whaling in Alaska and how necessary it is for subsistence and the 
survival of these important cultures. I hope all Americans also stand 
with so many other proud Alaska whalers, protecting their rights to 
hunt the way their ancestors have hunted.
  Thank you, Chris--a young man in Alaska, 17 years old--for standing 
tall for your people, for all of Alaska. I also want to thank his 
parents Susan and Daniel for raising such a fine hunter.
  Congratulations, Chris, for being our Alaskan of the Week.


                            Economic Growth

  Mr. President, I want to follow on with regard to what my colleague 
and good friend from South Dakota talked about in terms of tax reform. 
We are debating tax reform now. We are marking up a bill. The Finance 
Committee has not marked up the bill yet. It is working on the bill, 
but as Senator Thune just mentioned, we have to have one common goal in 
this body, which tax reform should be driving, and that is the issue of 
economic growth--the issue of economic growth.
  We would think this should not be a partisan issue, but one of the 
things I am struck by, in my little under 3 years in the Senate, is how 
little we have talked about economic growth.
  I have tried to come down to the Senate floor and speak about this 
issue a lot. In my view, with the exception of national defense, this 
is the most important issue Congress can be focused on right here, this 
issue of growth. How is the U.S. economy doing? Is it strong? Is it 
weak? Are we healthy or are we sick? By any measure over the last 10 
years, we are sick.
  I bring this chart to the floor a lot to talk about what has gone on 
in the last several decades in terms of economic growth. This has the 
growth rates of every administration dating back to President 
Eisenhower. If you look at the numbers, this red line is the important 
line. This is 3 percent GDP growth. It is not great. It is not bad. 
Since the founding of the Republic, the average since World War II is 
closer to 4 percent, but 3 percent is OK. It is certainly what we 
should be focused on in terms of hitting.
  If we look at this chart, in certain years, Eisenhower, Kennedy--by 
the way very bipartisan--we have had very strong growth. When people 
talk about what makes America great, this is what makes America great: 
strong economic growth. This is what has driven our country for 
decades.
  We see some of the numbers, Kennedy, Johnson, 5, 6, 7 percent; 
Reagan, Clinton, 5, 6, 7 percent. Then we look at the last decade--
boom, a giant dropoff. We haven't hit 3 percent GDP growth in well over 
10 years--well over 10 years. As a matter of fact, President Obama was 
the first President ever to not hit it.
  What happened? Did anyone talk about it? Did the last administration 
talk about it? They never talked about it. As a matter of fact, what 
they did is they started telling Americans: Don't worry. We are going 
to dumb down expectations. We are going to tell you--despite this 
chart, despite what this really means--this represents the American 
dream. Despite the fact that all previous administrations were focused 
on 3 percent, we are not going to talk about that. We will dumb it down 
and call this anemic growth back here--1 percent, 1\1/2\--the new 
normal.
  What does that mean? That means we are going to surrender. We are 
going to say, well, this is really America hitting on all cylinders. 
This is what you as Americans should expect in the future.
  I think this idea of the new normal, which a lot of people in DC talk 
about, is probably one of the most dangerous concepts in Washington, 
DC, right now. The new normal means that despite

[[Page S6899]]

this history of 3 percent or higher for decades, we are going to 
surrender because our policies have smothered growth, have smothered 
the American dream.
  Here is the good news. I think we finally have a White House that is 
starting to focus on this issue. Certainly, the Congress is starting to 
focus on this issue, and the Senate is starting to focus on this issue 
with policies like tax reform, with policies like regulatory 
streamlining, with policies like infrastructure, with policies like 
energy. As the Presiding Officer knows, our two great States are part 
of the energy renaissance that can drive economic growth well above 3 
percent.
  As we focus on tax reform, as this body focuses on tax reform, I am 
hopeful my colleagues, on both sides of the aisle, can all agree that 
one of the key elements of what we are doing with regard to tax reform, 
and every other policy in this body, is to get us back to traditional 
levels of U.S. economic growth, to get us back to where people say: 
Wow. I have great opportunities. Look at this economy--not the doldrums 
and the anemic growth and the sub-3 percent new normal that we have 
been told by other Federal officials to accept as our fate.
  That shouldn't be our fate. We should have policies, particularly tax 
reform, that are focused on getting back above that red line, and I am 
certainly hopeful that all my colleagues--all 100 U.S. Senators--can 
agree on that goal, strong economic growth for American families and 
reigniting the American dream with strong GDP growth that is much 
higher than what we have seen in the last 10 years.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Florida.
  Mr. NELSON. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that I be allowed 
to speak despite the order for recess.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                     Hurricane Irma Recovery Effort

  Mr. NELSON. Mr. President, it has been 2 months since Hurricane Irma 
hit Florida and basically covered up the State, and our people are 
still hurting because they don't have sufficient housing.
  If you lived in a mobile home, if you lived in a low-lying area, your 
home was destroyed. It is uninhabitable. The ceiling is collapsing. The 
mold and the mildew, because of all the water which has now 
accumulated, makes it an uninhabitable home.
  FEMA, through individual assistance, is supposed to provide temporary 
housing. This is the law. That is what the people of Florida are 
entitled to--just like the people of Texas are entitled to in the 
Presiding Officer's State--but it is not happening in Florida. Why? 
Because they get on the telephone, and they have to wait up to--
documented--4 hours to get somebody on the phone from FEMA or, for home 
inspections, it takes 45 days before they can get an inspector to come 
out and see the home so they can be declared eligible for individual 
assistance. That is just unacceptable.
  If they don't have the means--especially if they don't have a job as 
a result of the jobs being destroyed in the hurricane--where are they 
going to be able to get temporary assistance for housing? It is a fact 
that this is happening in the State of Florida, and it has to be 
changed.
  Thus, you see the bipartisan effort of my colleague from Florida 
Marco Rubio and me writing to the head of FEMA today to say: Look, what 
happened? Years ago, during the debacle of Hurricane Katrina in New 
Orleans, they experienced an average wait time of 10 minutes before 
they could get FEMA on the line to help them. Now we have people 
waiting as much as 4 hours. I wanted to bring this to the attention of 
the Senate.
  After a hurricane, 2 months later, we cannot have an aftermath where 
our people are hurting, they are suffering. They can't live in a 
healthy condition in the homes that have been destroyed in the 
hurricane.
  I yield the floor.

                          ____________________



