

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 157 (Monday, October 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 157 (Monday, October 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6258]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

           60TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE CONNECTICUT STATE AFL-CIO

 Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize the 
Connecticut State Labor Council AFL-CIO as they celebrate 60 years of 
extraordinary and exemplary advocacy on behalf of Connecticut workers 
and their families.
  Since its formation in 1957 with the merging of the Connecticut 
Federation of Labor and the Connecticut State Industrial Union Council, 
the Connecticut State AFL-CIO has demonstrated an impressive dedication 
to the wellbeing of workers across the State. The organization seeks 
fair and equal treatment for workers through collective bargaining on 
their behalf and promoting legislation to create good jobs and provide 
people with the skills needed for them.
  Simply, they strengthen the middle class, allowing tens of thousands 
of people to own a home, raise their families, and retire with 
financial security.
  Uniting workers and their families toward these common goals, the 
Connecticut AFL-CIO has fought continuously and ceaselessly for better 
wages, benefits, and conditions for the working families of the State. 
Throughout its six decades, the Connecticut AFL-CIO has facilitated 
union member access to insurance plans, credit cards, and beneficial 
mortgage programs.
  Always looking for ways to raise the standard of living for our 
middle-class workers, the Connecticut AFL-CIO was one of the early 
leaders in the fight to achieve affordable and accessible quality 
healthcare, pay equity, and parental and medical leave for all 
employees. The Connecticut AFL-CIO also helps those who have lost their 
jobs, supporting fair unemployment compensation laws and education and 
job training programs.
  Since its formation, the Connecticut AFL-CIO continuously puts the 
needs of workers and their families first. I applaud their numerous 
achievements and hope my colleagues will join me in congratulating the 
Connecticut State AFL-CIO on 60 years of service and commitment to 
Connecticut employees.

                          ____________________



