

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 195 (Thursday, November 30, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 195 (Thursday, November 30, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9563]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              GOP TAX SCAM

  (Mr. CICILLINE asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute.)
  Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Speaker, millions of Americans will lie awake in 
bed this evening worried about their ability to take care of their 
families because they simply don't make enough money and are struggling 
with the daily needs of life.
  What is the Republican Party working to do to make it even worse?
  Passing a tax cut for the richest people in this country, the most 
powerful corporations, that will result in raising taxes on 82 million 
families, providing $1.5 trillion debt for the next generation, making 
deep cuts to Medicare, Medicaid, Pell grants, and infrastructure--all 
things that are necessary to grow and strengthen the middle class of 
this country--which will be a huge boon to the richest people in 
America.
  The Senate version will also remove 13 million people from having 
access to affordable healthcare. The Republicans in the Senate are 
doing this right now.
  The American people need to be certain that their voices are being 
heard to stop this proposal. It is a scam that will impose tremendous 
costs on working people in this country. It will provide tremendous 
benefits to the very powerful and very wealthy. It incentivizes 
American companies to ship American jobs overseas by making those 
incentives more generous.
  The American people deserve a better deal. They deserve better wages, 
better jobs, and a better future. They deserve a much better deal than 
this raw deal these Republicans are giving in this tax scam.

                          ____________________



