

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 200 (Thursday, December 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 200 (Thursday, December 7, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7926]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                       TRIBUTE TO JUNE RYCHALSKI

 Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this week, I have the distinct 
honor of recognizing June Rychalski for her service with the Montana 
Department of Military Affairs. She has served Montana with grace, 
diligence, a positive attitude, and genuine care for the people of the 
Treasure State.
  During her 35 years of service, June has been secretary to the senior 
Army adviser, administrative assistant to the adjutant general and next 
month will complete her career with the Montana Veterans Affairs 
Division. June demonstrated compassion and professionalism on a daily 
basis. Her ability to help a grieving family member navigate the 
challenges of veteran burial honors or steer a distressed veteran in 
the right direction to attain benefits is highly commendable. Her 
presence in the in the Montana Department of Military Affairs will be 
missed, but the mentorship she provided agency personnel over the years 
will ensure that her legacy endures. To her coworkers, June was 
regarded as their greatest advocate.
  When June retires, she plans to do what she has always done, continue 
to take good care of others. At age 83, June's example is inspiring. 
Her work ethic, compassion, and commitment to excellence represent the 
best of Montana values. Thank you, June, for your service. I wish you 
the best in retirement and appreciate all you have done for our 
State.

                          ____________________



