

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 144 (Thursday, September 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 144 (Thursday, September 7, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H7104]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




     TRIBUTE TO LIEUTENANT AARON ALLAN AND DEPUTY CHIEF JIM WATERS

  (Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana asked and was given permission to address the 
House for 1 minute.)
  Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor our 
Nation's police officers, who sacrifice for their fellow citizens and 
selflessly put their lives on the line to keep our communities safe.
  Sadly, in late July, right before our August recess, our community of 
central Indiana suffered terrible losses.
  While off duty, Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Deputy Chief Jim 
Waters was involved in an accident involving a semitrailer. He passed 
away a few days later on July 27.
  Deputy Chief Waters held almost every title in law enforcement in his 
lifetime, but he was proudest of the titles of son, brother, father, 
and husband. No matter the job he took on, Deputy Chief Waters was 
known for working so hard, yet having fun while doing so.
  Also in late July, a second Indiana police officer was killed. When 
responding to an overturned vehicle on Marion County's south side, 
Southport Police Department's Lieutenant Aaron Allan was fatally shot 
by the driver he was trying to assist in that overturned vehicle. He, 
too, passed away on July 27. He was the first Southport police officer 
to be killed in the line of duty.
  As a child, Allan always knew what he wanted to be when he grew up: a 
police officer. He had a compassionate heart and consistently went out 
of his way to help those in need, even if his job didn't require it or 
he was off duty.
  I offer my deepest condolences to their families, the Southport and 
Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Departments, and all who mourn their 
loss and cherish their memory.

                          ____________________



