

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 154 (Tuesday, September 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 154 (Tuesday, September 26, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6134-S6136]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 198

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Cotton) was added as a cosponsor of S. 198, a bill to require 
continued and enhanced annual reporting to Congress in the Annual 
Report on International Religious Freedom on anti-Semitic incidents in 
Europe, the safety and security of European Jewish communities, and the 
efforts of the United States to partner with European governments, the 
European Union, and civil society groups, to combat anti-Semitism, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 253

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Ms. Murkowski) was added as a cosponsor of S. 253, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to repeal the Medicare 
outpatient rehabilitation therapy caps.


                                 S. 281

  At the request of Mr. Lee, the name of the Senator from Missouri (Mr. 
Blunt) was added as a cosponsor of S. 281, a bill to amend the 
Immigration and Nationality Act to eliminate the per-country numerical 
limitation for employment-based immigrants, to increase the per-country 
numerical limitation for family-sponsored immigrants, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 294

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Toomey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 294, a bill to 
amend the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to clarify the Food and 
Drug Administration's jurisdiction over certain tobacco products, and 
to protect jobs and small businesses involved in the sale, 
manufacturing and distribution of traditional and premium cigars.


                                 S. 298

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from California 
(Ms. Harris) was added as a cosponsor of S. 298, a bill to require 
Senate candidates to file designations, statements, and reports in 
electronic form.


                                 S. 349

  At the request of Ms. Harris, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 349, a bill to clarify the 
rights of all persons who are held or detained at a port of entry or at 
any detention facility overseen by U.S. Customs and Border Protection 
or U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.


                                 S. 407

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Daines) was added as a cosponsor of S. 407, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently extend the railroad track 
maintenance credit.


                                 S. 479

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. 479, a bill to 
amend title

[[Page S6135]]

XVIII of the Social Security Act to waive coinsurance under Medicare 
for colorectal cancer screening tests, regardless of whether 
therapeutic intervention is required during the screening.


                                 S. 568

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 568, a bill to amend title XVIII 
of the Social Security Act to count a period of receipt of outpatient 
observation services in a hospital toward satisfying the 3-day 
inpatient hospital requirement for coverage of skilled nursing facility 
services under Medicare.


                                 S. 718

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Kaine) was added as a cosponsor of S. 718, a bill to amend the 
Higher Education Act of 1965 to make college affordable and accessible.


                                 S. 816

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 816, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow rollovers from 529 programs to 
ABLE accounts.


                                 S. 856

  At the request of Mrs. McCaskill, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 856, a bill to 
amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 and the Jeanne Clery Disclosure 
of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act to combat 
campus sexual assault, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 872

  At the request of Mr. Schumer, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 872, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to make permanent the 
extension of the Medicare-dependent hospital (MDH) program and the 
increased payments under the Medicare low-volume hospital program.


 =========================== NOTE =========================== 

  
  On page S6135, September 26, 2017, in the first column, the 
following appears: S. 896 At the request of Mr. Burr, the name of 
the Senator from Georgia . . .
  
  The online Record has been corrected to read: S. 872 At the 
request of Mr. Schumer, the name of the Senator from New Hampshire 
(Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 872, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to make permanent the 
extension of the Medicare-dependent hospital (MDH) program and the 
increased payments under the Medicare low-volume hospital program. 
S. 896 At the request of Mr. Burr, the name of the Senator from 
Georgia . . .


 ========================= END NOTE ========================= 



                                 S. 896

  At the request of Mr. Burr, the name of the Senator from Georgia (Mr. 
Isakson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 896, a bill to permanently 
reauthorize the Land and Water Conservation Fund.


                                 S. 911

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Menendez) was added as a cosponsor of S. 911, a bill to direct the 
Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration to issue an order 
with respect to secondary cockpit barriers, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 946

  At the request of Mr. Flake, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 946, a bill 
to require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to hire additional 
Veterans Justice Outreach Specialists to provide treatment court 
services to justice-involved veterans, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1022

  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Cotton) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1022, a bill to amend the 
Public Health Service Act to facilitate assignment of military trauma 
care providers to civilian trauma centers in order to maintain military 
trauma readiness and to support such centers, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1028

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1028, a bill to 
provide for the establishment and maintenance of a Family Caregiving 
Strategy, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1050

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1050, a bill to award a 
Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the Chinese-American 
Veterans of World War II, in recognition of their dedicated service 
during World War II.


                                S. 1064

  At the request of Mr. Udall, the names of the Senator from Washington 
(Mrs. Murray) and the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1064, a bill to amend the Richard B. Russell 
National School Lunch Act to prohibit the stigmatization of children 
who are unable to pay for meals.


                                S. 1568

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1568, a bill to require 
the Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in commemoration of 
President John F. Kennedy.


                                S. 1595

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the names of the Senator from Iowa (Mrs. 
Ernst), the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Menendez) and the Senator from 
North Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) were added as cosponsors of S. 1595, a bill 
to amend the Hizballah International Financing Prevention Act of 2015 
to impose additional sanctions with respect to Hizballah, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1706

  At the request of Mr. Schumer, his name was added as a cosponsor of 
S. 1706, a bill to prevent human health threats posed by the 
consumption of equines raised in the United States.
  At the request of Mr. Cardin, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1706, supra.


                                S. 1718

  At the request of Mr. Kennedy, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Cotton) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1718, a bill to authorize 
the minting of a coin in honor of the 75th anniversary of the end of 
World War II, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1719

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1719, a bill to eliminate 
duties on imports of recreational performance outerwear, to establish 
the Sustainable Textile and Apparel Research Fund, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1721

  At the request of Mr. Udall, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1721, a bill to 
amend titles 10 and 37, United States Code, to provide compensation and 
credit for retired pay purposes for maternity leave taken by members of 
the reserve components, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1730

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the names of the Senator from Alaska 
(Mr. Sullivan), the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren), the 
Senator from West Virginia (Mrs. Capito) and the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) were added as cosponsors of S. 1730, a bill to implement 
policies to end preventable maternal, newborn, and child deaths 
globally.


                                S. 1742

  At the request of Ms. Stabenow, the names of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Ms. Hirono) and the Senator from Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1742, a bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
Security Act to provide for an option for any citizen or permanent 
resident of the United States age 55 to 64 to buy into Medicare.


                                S. 1774

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Cotton) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1774, a bill to provide 
protections for workers with respect to their right to select or 
refrain from selecting representation by a labor organization.


                                S. 1783

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1783, a bill 
to amend the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 to require each 
State to implement a process under which individuals who are 16 years 
of age may apply to register to vote in elections for Federal office in 
the State, to direct the Election Assistance Commission to make grants 
to States to increase the involvement of minors in public election 
activities, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1808

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the names of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) and the Senator from New York (Mr. Schumer) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1808, a bill to extend temporarily the 
Federal Perkins Loan program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1827

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Nevada (Mr. 
Heller) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1827, a bill to extend funding 
for the Children's Health Insurance Program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1854

  At the request of Mr. Graham, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1854, a bill to 
amend chapter 44 of title 18, United States Code, to enhance penalties 
for theft of a firearm from a Federal firearms licensee.

[[Page S6136]]

  



                              S. RES. 263

  At the request of Mr. Leahy, the name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 263, a resolution 
expressing the sense of the Senate that President Juan Manuel Santos 
has restructured and significantly strengthened the environmental 
sector and management capacity of the Colombian Government and has led 
the country to become a global environmental leader.


                              S. RES. 266

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 266, a resolution 
reaffirming the United States-Liberia partnership, calling for free, 
fair, and peaceful elections in Liberia in October 2017.


                              S. RES. 267

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Daines) and the Senator from North Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) were added 
as cosponsors of S. Res. 267, a resolution designating September 2017 
as ``National Workforce Development Month''.
  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from 
Michigan (Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 267, supra.

                          ____________________



