

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 185 (Monday, November 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 185 (Monday, November 13, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7170]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              NOMINATIONS

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, the Senate will continue its progress 
in confirming the President's nominees. Last week we confirmed multiple 
nominees to a number of Federal agencies. Soon they will get on the job 
for our country.
  This week we will start by considering two nominees for the 
Department of Transportation. Later today, the Senate will vote to 
confirm Derek Kan to serve as the Under Secretary of Transportation for 
Policy. Mr. Kan has experience in a wide range of transportation 
matters, from Amtrak to ride-sharing platforms. His career in both the 
private and public sectors will serve him well as he works to develop 
important policies related to our Nation's infrastructure. I will be 
supporting Mr. Kan's nomination, and I would urge all Senators to join 
me.
  Next, we will consider the nomination of Steven Bradbury to be 
general counsel of the Department of Transportation. During Mr. 
Bradbury's service at the Justice Department in the Bush 
administration, he advised the executive branch on various legal and 
constitutional questions. I am grateful that he has chosen to serve our 
Nation once again.
  Next up will be David Zatezalo to serve as the Assistant Secretary of 
Labor for Mine Safety and Health and, then, Joseph Otting to be the 
Comptroller of the Currency. Finally, we have two more talented and 
qualified nominees to serve as Federal district court judges, Donald 
Coggins and Dabney Friedrich.
  Thoughtful consideration of President Trump's nominees is an 
important responsibility of the Senate, and we will continue to move 
swiftly so they can get to work for the American people. I look forward 
to considering each of them this week, and I would urge all of our 
colleagues to join me.

                          ____________________



