

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 172 (Wednesday, October 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 172 (Wednesday, October 25, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H8156]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         TRIBUTE TO GAIL KEMLER

  (Mr. BISHOP of Michigan asked and was given permission to address the 
House for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. BISHOP of Michigan. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to 
an inspiring woman in my district, Mrs. Gail Kemler. Gail is 
celebrating her 100th birthday this month on October 28.
  Gail has lived in Rochester, Michigan, since 1931, and has been an 
integral part of the city--through her steadfast volunteerism with the 
Rochester Board of Education; Daughters of the American Revolution, 
Stoney Creek Chapter; Rochester-Avon Historical Society; Rochester 
Lions Club; and Questers Organization.
  Gail's longest tenure as a volunteer was with the Rochester Area 
Neighborhood House, an organization that she has helped from its 
inception. She remained a dedicated volunteer with the organization for 
over 50 years.
  An active supporter of the Rochester Community Schools, Gail also 
served as a room mother and scout leader, and was one of the original 
PTA founders. She has been a member of the First Congregational Church 
in Rochester for over 85 years, and has served on the building 
committee, pastoral search committee, and board of trustees.
  Gail and her late husband, Donald Kemler, have four children, nine 
grandchildren, four great-grandchildren, and four great-great-
grandchildren.
  Mr. Speaker, I am honored to have such a selfless, giving, and 
inspirational woman in my district. Thank you, Mrs. Gail Kemler, for 
your service to the entire Rochester community, and happy 100th 
birthday.

                          ____________________



