

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 200 (Thursday, December 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 200 (Thursday, December 7, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7919]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         TRIBUTE TO MAX MENDEZ

  Ms. HASSAN. Mr. President, it is my honor to announce our latest 
Granite Stater of the Month, an inspiring, resilient, and generous 
young man from Merrimack, NH.
  Max Mendez, an 8-year-old boy--also known as Mighty Max and Professor 
Max--has battled leukemia for over a year, and he has proven to be a 
shining example of the values that make the Granite State and all of 
our communities strong.
  As Max began treatment last year--procedures, blood draws, and 
tests--at Boston Children's Hospital, he was often recognized for his 
courage and grit. The hospital had a supply of toys, and after these 
procedures, he would often be rewarded with one of them.
  Max received so many toys that he started to donate some of them to 
other kids and realized that giving toys felt even better than 
receiving them.
  In the face of his own severe health challenges, Max started Mighty 
Max's Mega Toy Drive to help supply Jimmy Fund Clinic, the Dana Farber 
Cancer Institute, and Boston Children's Hospital's hematology and 
oncology unit with presents for brave young patients like himself.
  In true Granite State fashion, Max and his family received invaluable 
support from their community, including friends, local businesses, 
schools, sports teams, and the local police department.
  Max's community donated toys, offered spaces, collection sites, and 
delivered donations to Max and the Mendez family. With extra help from 
his sister, Mckayla, and the Lyna family, who helped advertise the toy 
drive and store donations, Mighty Max's Mega Toy Drive received roughly 
3,000 toys ahead of the holiday season this year.
  Mighty Max, the Mendez family, and all of the Granite Staters who 
supported the toy drive demonstrate the spirit that makes New Hampshire 
such a strong, resilient State.
  While battling leukemia and enduring painful treatments, Max found it 
in himself to bring joy to others who face similar challenges. His 
entire community, including people Max will never meet, is stronger 
because of his generous spirit and hard work.
  Max is an inspiration for all of us during this holiday season and 
beyond, and I am proud to call him our Granite Stater of the Month.
  Thank you.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The bill clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

                          ____________________



