

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 157 (Monday, October 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 157 (Monday, October 2, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H7654]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




            GIVE BLOOD TO HONOR THOSE AFFECTED IN LAS VEGAS

  (Mr. LaMALFA asked and was given permission to address the House for 
1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. LaMALFA. Mr. Speaker, I don't need to add any more adjectives or 
an official statement about what happened in Las Vegas last night. It 
has been said: horrific.
  What I would like to add is that we see examples of people pulling 
together to help each other that isn't reported very much. In this 
horrific thing, giving thanks to the SWAT team who was able to put down 
that shooter without making it even worse, the emergency personnel, 
people helping each other get out of the way, hop over a fence, 
whatever it took, and the people who are so highly impacted in the 
hospitals around Las Vegas right now making heroic efforts, trying to 
keep up with the flow there, these are things we should dwell on.
  Pray for those who are gone, who are injured, who are on life support 
right now. Console those who are around them. And an action item we can 
all do wherever you are: give blood. I do, six-gallon club--not to 
brag, but it is important.
  I ask all of you, if you have never thought of it before, because 
only a couple percent of Americans do, think about it now, and go do 
it. It doesn't hurt: just a little pinprick here to test your blood, 
and just a little needle right here to take that all-important pint.
  Just the other day, our friend Steve Scalise, it is a miracle he was 
here on this floor. It was a miracle he got off that ballfield, because 
he had 18 pints, units of blood waiting for him there, a miracle he was 
able to even walk out of that emergency room.
  Give blood. It makes a big difference.

                          ____________________



