

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 147 (Tuesday, September 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 147 (Tuesday, September 12, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S5213]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       TRIBUTE TO SARKIS TATIGIAN

 Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I come to the floor today to ask my 
colleagues to join me in recognizing Mr. Sarkis Tatigian, who will 
achieve the extraordinary milestone of 75 years of combined military 
and civilian service to the United States on September 26, 2017. 
Eligible for retirement since 1973, Mr. Tatigian has continued to honor 
America through his faithful service. Currently the associate director 
of the Small Business Programs Office at Naval Sea Systems Command, 
NAVSEA, Mr. Tatigian is a champion for our Navy, our small business 
community, and our country.
  Mr. Tatigian began his civilian career with the Navy in July 1942 as 
a junior radio inspector at the naval aircraft factory in the 
Philadelphia Navy Yard and the Navy Office of Inspector of Naval 
Aircraft in Linden, NJ. He left his position as an inspector in March 
1943 and entered the uniformed Navy as an Active-Duty sailor in April 
1943. In June 1944, as an aviation electronics technician's mate, he 
aided in the development of the Navy's first guided antiship munition, 
the ASM-N-2 ``BAT'' glide bomb, which later became an operational 
weapon in January 1945.
  In 1943, Mr. Tatigian began his Federal civil service with NAVSEA, 
where he still works today. Throughout his long career, he has received 
numerous awards, including the Navy's Superior Civilian Service Award 
in 2007. In recognition of his exceptional accomplishments in service, 
the Navy has even named an award after him, the Sarkis Tatigian Small 
Business Award, which recognizes outstanding performance through 
organizational culture and command climate.
  At 95 years young, Mr. Tatigian's dedication and resolve are 
inspirational. We can all learn a great deal about service to country 
and the American spirit from his great example. On behalf of a grateful 
nation, thank you, Mr. Sarkis Tatigian, for all you have done for our 
people, our government, and our Navy.

                          ____________________



