

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 185 (Monday, November 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 185 (Monday, November 13, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H9156-H9157]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




  WELCOMING THE HONORABLE JOHN CURTIS TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

  The SPEAKER. Without objection, the gentleman from Utah (Mr. Bishop) 
is recognized for 1 minute.
  There was no objection.
  Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I hope you realize you just swore in 
another vote for sage grouse.
  Utah, for too long, has been at 75 percent. We are now united at a 
full 100 percent, which means, Mr. Amodei, be

[[Page H9157]]

careful: we are going to reannex eastern Nevada.
  Mr. Curtis comes here with a background of being mayor of Provo City, 
so he understands local government. He is going to be a fine addition 
to our body. I look forward to it.
  As he has taken the place of Jason Chaffetz, he is going to be in Mr. 
Chaffetz's office.
  I just want you to know, as you are getting settled in and before you 
find your proper bed, I think I can get you a good deal on a used cot.
  I am pleased to yield to the gentleman from Utah (Mr. Curtis), our 
new Representative.
  Mr. CURTIS. Mr. Speaker, as a Member of Congress, I would like the 
very first part of my service to be to introduce my wife of 35 years, 
Sue Curtis.
  Sue has some political blood in her. You may be interested to know 
that her great-grandmother was the first woman legislator in the State 
of Utah. It gets better. She won that office by defeating her husband.
  Sue and I are pleased to have six beautiful children, who are all 
here with us this evening. We are grateful for our six children and 
their spouses. Three of our 5\1/2\ grandchildren are here. My siblings 
and many good friends are here. I thank them for being here tonight 
with me.
  The second thing I would like to do is pause and thank the residents 
of Utah's Third Congressional District for trusting me and sending me 
here to be with you. I am honored and humbled.
  Like your constituents, these good people love America. They have 
very high expectations of me and of us. I want to repledge my 
willingness and desire to serve them with all of my heart.
  I am excited to get to know each and every one of you, and I am 
looking forward to working with you. My brief introductions to some of 
you have been so positive. Everyone has been so extremely helpful.
  Thank you, and I look forward to working with each and every one of 
you.

                          ____________________



