

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 180 (Monday, November 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 180 (Monday, November 6, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7014]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         PRESIDENTIAL MESSAGES

                                 ______
                                 

REPORT RELATIVE TO THE CONTINUATION OF THE NATIONAL EMERGENCY THAT WAS 
ORIGINALLY DECLARED IN EXECUTIVE ORDER 13712 OF NOVEMBER 22, 2015, WITH 
                       RESPECT TO BURUNDI--PM 19

  The PRESIDING OFFICER laid before the Senate the following message 
from the President of the United States, together with an accompanying 
report which was referred to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
Urban Affairs.

To the Congress of the United States:
  Section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) 
provides for the automatic termination of a national emergency unless, 
within 90 days before the anniversary date of its declaration, the 
President publishes in the Federal Register and transmits to the 
Congress a notice stating that the emergency is to continue in effect 
beyond the anniversary date. In accordance with this provision, I have 
sent to the Federal Register for publication the enclosed notice 
stating that the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13712 
of November 22, 2015, with respect to the situation in Burundi, is to 
continue in effect beyond November 22, 2017.
  The situation in Burundi, which has been marked by killing and other 
violence against civilians, unrest, the incitement of violence, and 
significant political repression, and which threatens the peace, 
security, and stability of Burundi and the region, continues to pose an 
unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign 
policy of the United States. For this reason, I have determined that it 
is necessary to continue the national emergency declared in Executive 
Order 13712 with respect to the situation in Burundi.
                                                     Donald J. Trump.  
The White House, November 6, 2017.

                          ____________________



