

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 160 (Thursday, October 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 160 (Thursday, October 5, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6357-S6358]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   TRIBUTE TO ANNE MAXWELL LIVINGSTON

 Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, today I wish to honor the 
service of my friend Anne Maxwell Livingston. Mrs. Livingston has 
served since 2011 as chairwoman of the Rhode Island Coastal Resources 
Management Council, CRMC, which protects Rhode Island's coastal 
resources through research, regulation, and restoration.
  During her 6-year tenure, CRMC has been a nationally recognized 
leader in ocean and coastal management. One of the shining jewels of 
CRMC's work has been its innovative Special Area Management Plans, or 
SAMPs. These plans are ecosystem-based management strategies developed 
in collaboration with government agencies, municipalities, and other 
stakeholders to best manage coastal systems. During Mrs. Livingston's 
tenure, the council saw its

[[Page S6358]]

groundbreaking ocean SAMP, the first formally adopted ocean spatial 
plan in the country, pay real-life dividends. In developing this plan, 
CRMC engaged a diverse group of stakeholders and laid the groundwork 
for cooperation among a multitude of regulatory agencies. This effort 
and CRMC's continued engagement in the process paved the way for the 
successful development of the Nation's first offshore wind farm off the 
coast of Rhode Island.
  The CRMC has also helped Rhode Island towns and residents understand 
the increasing effects of sea level rise and storm surge. Using the 
latest climate change predictions and state-of-the-art modeling, CRMC, 
in cooperation with the University of Rhode Island and others, 
developed an online tool, STORMTOOLS, that gives anyone with an 
internet connection free access to information that can be used to help 
decide everything from what neighborhood to buy a home in to where to 
site a new stormwater treatment plant. CRMC is now developing a coastal 
environmental risk index that can show Rhode Island homeowners 
individualized flood risks in 3-D.
  In addition to her service on the CRMC, Mrs. Livingston has served 
Rhode Islanders as a board member of the Jamestown Tax Assessment Board 
of Review and on the board of the Girl Scouts of Rhode Island and the 
Jamestown Education Foundation. She also continues to serve as 
treasurer for the Opera House Theater & Performing Arts Center in 
Newport and on the advisory boards of the Dorcas International 
Institute of Rhode Island and the Providence Children's Museum. Mrs. 
Livingston is a passionate and committed leader, and I am grateful for 
her many years of service to our State's CRMC.

                          ____________________



