

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 203 (Wednesday, December 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 203 (Wednesday, December 13, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9849]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





                              {time}  1015
                 HONORING SHERIFF'S DEPUTY DAVID SOLIS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
California (Mr. Ruiz) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. RUIZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor the outstanding service and 
heroism of one of California's finest, Riverside County Sheriff's 
Deputy David Solis, who serves in Coachella, California.
  On May 25, 2017, Deputy Solis engaged in a chase with a suspect in a 
vehicle, which led to a foot pursuit. The suspect unexpectedly drew a 
firearm and shot Deputy Solis six times at close range. Though he was 
critically injured, Deputy Solis continued to feed his team 
information, ensuring other officers could secure the area, which led 
to the eventual capture of the suspect.
  Incredibly, Deputy Solis was back to work after just 4 months of 
recovery. His bravery, strength, and professionalism exemplify the very 
best in law enforcement, which is why his department selected him to 
receive the Public Safety Officer Medal of Valor for exhibiting 
``extraordinary valor above and beyond the call of duty.'' It is the 
highest decoration for public safety officers.
  Deputy Solis, you truly embody these values. Your courage has made 
our entire valley a safer place. You and all law enforcement officers 
put yourselves in harm's way each day to keep us safe.
  On behalf of my wife, Monica, and the entire 36th Congressional 
District, I thank you, Martha, and your children--Caleb, Jonah, Grace, 
Jeremy, and Penny--for your service and sacrifice.


                              GOP Tax Plan

  Mr. RUIZ. Mr. Speaker, the tax plan being considered in conference 
right now will be devastating for the people I represent, in 
particular, seniors, homeowners, students, and taxpaying middle class 
Californians.
  According to every nonpartisan estimate out there, this tax plan will 
blow a giant hole in our deficit, a $1 trillion hole, in fact.
  So my first question is: Who is going to pay for it?
  Well, next year it will be our seniors, to the tune of $25 billion in 
cuts to Medicare.
  And 10 years from now?
  We will be looking at cuts to programs that invest in our children 
and our future, like Pell grants for our students.
  My next question is: Who will actually benefit?
  Well, it won't be California homeowners, who, on average, will see 
their taxes go up by $800 a year. It won't be hardworking families in 
southern California, who will be double-taxed on their income.
  It will be corporations that will get free rein to ship jobs 
overseas, because any income ``earned'' abroad will be completely tax 
free.
  It will be the wealthiest 1 percent who get more than 50 percent of 
the tax cuts in this plan, while sticking our children with the bill.
  I want to simplify and modernize our Tax Code to give middle class 
families the purchasing power they need to improve their lives and 
spark the economy. This plan, unfortunately, will further burden the 
middle class for the benefit of millionaires.
  So, let's start over. Let's come back to the table to make real, 
bipartisan tax reform a reality and to give real tax cuts to all the 
people we serve.

                          ____________________



