

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 182 (Wednesday, November 8, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 182 (Wednesday, November 8, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H8645-H8646]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1730
                         THANKING OUR VETERANS

  (Mr. LaMALFA asked and was given permission to address the House for 
1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. LaMALFA. Mr. Speaker, I rise tonight to recognize and thank our 
veterans. We will all be doing that this coming Saturday on Veterans 
Day. They sacrificed so much and we are so glad to have them here to be 
able to celebrate and thank them.
  I recommend that everybody please take part in the events that you 
have in your community. Go to the parades, go to the barbecues, and 
take a minute to thank a veteran.
  Things we can do around here as legislators are like we did this week 
with several pieces of legislation, helping veterans with VA so that 
they would have more access for telemedicine, which makes technology 
more available and provides better doctors for diagnosing veterans and 
giving them what they need.

[[Page H8646]]

  The VICTOR Act considers the travel veterans have to take to go for 
transplants. Wouldn't it be better for them to be closer to home 
instead of traveling long distances so they and their families can get 
the care they need and have the access they need locally?
  Lastly, I will mention the Veterans Crisis Line Study Act. When a 
veteran is in crisis, when a veteran is contemplating suicide, as 
happens so much these days--20, 22 veterans per day giving up--we need 
to have the Veterans Crisis Line Study Act in place to better modify 
the crisis line to be effective for them; so that there is someone 
there so they can have immediate help to get through that time.
  These are some of the things we can do for veterans as we wish them a 
happy Veterans Day and thank them for their service. God bless them.

                          ____________________



