

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 159 (Wednesday, October 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 159 (Wednesday, October 4, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6293-S6294]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              NOMINATIONS

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, earlier this week, I filed cloture 
motions on four qualified nominees for various agencies throughout the 
Federal Government. I shouldn't have had to. In different times, we may 
have even considered them on voice votes. But this is where we are, and 
now it is time to advance and confirm them as soon as possible.
  Later this morning, the Senate will consider Eric Hargan to be Deputy 
Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services. As the people 
of Texas, Florida, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands continue to 
recover from a series of devastating hurricanes, Mr. Hargan's expertise 
in disaster response and public health will help the Department respond 
to these crises. I look forward to confirming Mr. Hargan soon so he can 
help coordinate multiple agencies under his supervision to respond to 
the hurricanes, deliver relief, and help save lives.

[[Page S6294]]

  After that, this afternoon we will take up the nomination of Randal 
Quarles, the President's nominee to help oversee the Federal Reserve 
System. Mr. Quarles brings with him both domestic and international 
financial experience from multiple administrations, and he will be a 
strong guide for our Nation's monetary policy. We also intend to 
confirm Mr. Quarles to the position of Vice Chair for Supervision. This 
is an essential role created by Dodd-Frank, and it is critical that Mr. 
Quarles begin this work over at the Fed.
  Tomorrow, the Senate will confirm Lee Francis Cissna to be Director 
of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. Mr. Cissna has a wealth 
of experience in immigration policy, serving in senior policy positions 
in both the Bush and Obama administrations and then working for the 
chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee. He was voted out of 
committee with bipartisan support. I look forward to his confirmation 
to this important role.
  Then we will consider Callista Gingrich, whom the President has 
nominated to be our Nation's Ambassador to the Holy See. Ms. Gingrich's 
work will continue the strong relationship between our Nation and the 
Vatican, building upon shared values, goals, and global 
responsibilities.
  I thank each of these nominees for their willingness to serve our 
Nation. They are each well qualified and suited for their role. I look 
forward to the Senate confirming them very soon.

                          ____________________



