

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 172 (Wednesday, October 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 172 (Wednesday, October 25, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6812-S6813]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       TRIBUTE TO RICHARD LINCOLN

  Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, throughout our Nation's history, young 
Americans have left the comfort and security of home in order to 
preserve our freedom and to extend the blessings of freedom to others. 
We set aside Veterans Day to express our gratitude.
  One such veteran is Mr. Richard Lincoln of Wayne, ME. Although the 
story of his service in Italy during World War II is extraordinary, the 
virtues of courage, sacrifice, and devotion to duty it demonstrates 
describe the character of American patriots in all places and at all 
times.
  Now 91 years of age, Mr. Lincoln entered the U.S. Army in 1943 when 
he was just 17. He served with the legendary 88th Infantry Division, 
the first all-draftee division to serve in combat during the war. The 
88th, known as the Fighting Blue Devils, proved that with rigorous 
training, able leadership, and unflagging determination, peace-loving 
Americans could stand up to a battle-hardened, militaristic enemy.
  The 88th played a key role at the Battle of Anzio, the long, costly, 
and critically important amphibious landing on the Italian coast in 
January of 1944 that eventually led to the liberation of Rome. Mr. 
Lincoln served as a first scout, an extremely dangerous assignment in a 
forward position under constant fire, to locate enemy artillery 
positions. When the Allies liberated Rome on June 4, 1944, the all-
draftee

[[Page S6813]]

88th was the first division to enter the city. It was Mr. Lincoln's 
18th birthday. He later was awarded the Bronze Star for his heroism 
during that grueling campaign.
  Victory came at a steep price. Between the Battle of Anzio and the 
German surrender in May of 1945, the Fighting Blue Devils spent 344 
days in combat, with nearly 3,000 killed and more than 9,200 wounded.
  After returning home, Mr. Lincoln raised a family, served his 
community, and never forgot his comrades. Until he suffered a stroke 
that hampered his mobility, he marched in 58 consecutive Memorial Day 
parades in his hometown. He never rode in a ceremonial car; he always 
marched.
  In a speech to the Association of the U.S. Army on October 9, Defense 
Secretary James Mattis discussed the serious current threats to peace 
and security facing our Nation and the world. He told the story of 
Richard Lincoln to underscore his point that Americans are always 
willing and able to meet any challenge.
  On October 14, family and friends gathered around Mr. Lincoln at the 
Maine Veterans' Home in Augusta, where he was presented with a personal 
letter from Secretary Mattis and a book on the Battle of Anzio, 
inscribed by both Secretary Mattis and former Defense Secretary William 
Cohen, Maine's former Senator.
  Secretary Mattis's handwritten note to Mr. Lincoln includes these 
words: ``You have the respect and affection of today's military. You 
and your brothers-in-arms are the pride of our country.'' I am honored 
to join Secretary Mattis and all grateful Americans in thanking Mr. 
Richard Lincoln and all of the men and women who serve our country.

                          ____________________



