

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 195 (Thursday, November 30, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 195 (Thursday, November 30, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H9560-H9561]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               LAW ENFORCEMENT MENTAL HEALTH AND WELLNESS

  (Mr. SMUCKER asked and was given permission to address the House for 
1 minute.)
  Mr. SMUCKER. Mr. Speaker, every day, our law enforcement officers and 
first responders place their lives at risk to protect our neighborhoods 
and our families. They deserve our respect, our admiration, and 
support.
  That support can come in many different forms, but an important 
component to supporting our law enforcement officers is to provide them 
the resources they need for mental wellness.

[[Page H9561]]

  Law enforcement officers have stressful jobs. They are exposed to 
higher levels of violence and death than the average American.
  One in five officers has PTSD. One in four officers have thought 
about suicide at one point during their career, and the suicide rate 
for police officers is four times higher than the rate for 
firefighters.
  We can do more, Mr. Speaker. That is why I am glad the House passed 
the Law Enforcement Mental Health and Wellness Act earlier this week.
  This legislation will provide law enforcement's agencies with the 
resources they need to address mental health issues faced by officers. 
It will make grants available to departments across the country and it 
will study the effectiveness of regular mental health checks and crisis 
hotlines.
  I have had numerous conversations with law enforcement leaders and 
police officers in my district, and this is a priority for them. It is 
supported by the Fraternal Order of Police, the National Law 
Enforcement Officers Association, and the National Association of 
Police Officers.
  Mr. Speaker, I am glad that the House is working to improve the 
mental health of those who are charged with protecting us. I thank the 
men and women who put on the blue uniform each day to keep us safe.

                          ____________________



