

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 203 (Wednesday, December 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 203 (Wednesday, December 13, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S8003]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will report the nomination.
  The assistant bill clerk read the nomination of James C. Ho, of 
Texas, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Fifth Circuit.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The majority leader.


            UNANIMOUS CONSENT AGREEMENT--EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that at a time 
to be determined by the majority leader, in consultation with the 
Democratic leader, the Senate proceed to executive session for 
consideration of Calendar No. 193, the nomination of Owen West to be an 
Assistant Secretary of Defense. I further ask that there be 30 minutes 
of debate on the nomination, equally divided in the usual form; that 
following the use or yielding back of time, the Senate vote on 
confirmation with no intervening action or debate; and that, if 
confirmed, the motion to reconsider be considered made and laid upon 
the table and the President be immediately notified of the Senate's 
action.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


            Unanimous Consent Agreement--Executive Calendar

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that at a time 
to be determined by the majority leader, in consultation with the 
Democratic leader, the Senate proceed to executive session for 
consideration of Calendar No. 241, the nomination of J. Paul Compton to 
be General Counsel of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. 
I further ask that there be 120 minutes of debate on the nomination, 
equally divided in the usual form; that following the use or yielding 
back of time, the Senate vote on confirmation with no intervening 
action or debate; and that, if confirmed, the motion to reconsider be 
considered made and laid upon the table and the President be 
immediately notified of the Senate's action.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

                          ____________________



