

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 154 (Tuesday, September 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 154 (Tuesday, September 26, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6141-S6142]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. FLAKE. Mr. President, I have 8 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


                      committee on armed services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, September 26, 2017, at 10 a.m., in 
open session to consider the nomination of:


            committee on banking, housing, and urban affairs

  The Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, September 26, 2017, 
at 10 a.m. to conduct a hearing entitled, ``Oversight of the U.S. 
Securities and Exchange Commission.''


               committee on energy and natural resources

  The Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate in order to hold a hearing on 
Tuesday, September 26, 2017, at 10 a.m. in Room 366 of the Dirksen 
Senate Office Building in Washington, DC.


                     committee on foreign relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, September 26, 2017 at 10:30 a.m., to 
hold a business meeting.


                     committee on foreign relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, September 26, 2017 at 10:45 a.m., to 
hold a hearing entitled, ``Managing Security Assistance to Support 
Foreign Policy.''


                       committee on the judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate, on September 26, 2017 at 10 a.m., in room SD-226 
of the Dirksen Senate Office Building, to conduct a hearing entitled, 
``Special Counsels and the Separation of Powers.''


                       committee on intelligence

  The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet 
during

[[Page S6142]]

the session of the 115th Congress of the U.S. Senate on Tuesday, 
September 26, 2017 from 2 p.m., in room SH-219 of the Senate Hart 
Office Building to hold a Closed Member Roundtable.


 committee on consumer protection, product safety, insurance, and data 
                                security

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to hold a meeting during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, 
September 26, 2017, at 2:30 p.m. in room 253 of the Russell Senate 
Office Building.
  The Committee will hold Subcommittee Hearing on ``FTC Stakeholder 
Perspectives: Reform Proposals to Improve Fairness, Innovation and 
Consumer Welfare.''

                          ____________________



