

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 188 (Thursday, November 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 188 (Thursday, November 16, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7308]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. CRAPO. Mr. President, I have 6 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


           Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry

  The Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, November 16, 
2017, at 12 p.m., in SR-216 to conduct a hearing.


                      Committee on Armed Services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, November 16, 2017, at 10 a.m. to 
conduct a hearing on the following nominations: John C. Rood, of 
Arizona, to be Under Secretary for Policy, and Randall G. Schriver, of 
Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary, both of the Department of 
Defense.


                          Committee on Finance

  The Committee on Finance is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Thursday, November 16, 2017, at 10 a.m., in SH-216 to 
conduct a hearing on the bill entitled ``Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.''


                       Committee on the Judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, November 16, 2017, at 10 a.m., in 
SD-226 to conduct a hearing on S. 2070 and the following nominations: 
Leonard Steven Grasz, of Nebraska, to be United States Circuit Judge 
for the Eighth Circuit, Terry A. Doughty, to be United States District 
Judge for the Western District of Louisiana, Terry Fitzgerald Moorer, 
to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of 
Alabama, Mark Saalfield Norris, Sr., to be United States District Judge 
for the Western District of Tennessee, and Scott W. Brady, to be United 
States Attorney for the Western District of Pennsylvania, and Andrew E. 
Lelling, to be United States Attorney for the District of Massachusetts 
for the term of four years, both of the Department of Justice.


                    Select Committee on Intelligence

  The Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, November 16, 2017, at 2 p.m., in SH-
219 to conduct a closed hearing.


     Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and Coast Guard

  The Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and Coast Guard of 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, November 16, 2017, 
at 10 a.m., in SR-253 to conduct closed hearing entitled ``Coast Guard 
Readiness: How Far Can We Stretch Our Nation's Only Multi-Mission, 
Military.''

                          ____________________



