

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 194 (Wednesday, November 29, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 194 (Wednesday, November 29, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9477]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     CONGRATULATING PHIL BERTOLINI

  (Mr. BISHOP of Michigan asked and was given permission to address the 
House for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. BISHOP of Michigan. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor an 
impressive and dedicated public servant in Oakland County, Michigan, 
Phil Bertolini, who is being honored here in Washington, D.C., this 
week.
  Phil is the chief information officer of Oakland County and has been 
recognized as the 2017 Public Official of the Year by Governing 
magazine.
  Phil has spent most of his career handling technology issues for the 
county and has, most notably, spearheaded a program to help smaller 
communities gain access to better technology. In 2011, Phil created a 
process online allowing smaller governments to take advantage of 
Oakland County's state-of-the-art computing services through G2G Cloud 
Solutions.
  Due to Phil's hard work and dedication, Oakland County's G2G Cloud 
Solutions now provides services to 82 agencies in Michigan and 721 
users throughout the United States. Phil's experience and innovative 
mindset has earned Oakland County national recognition as a tech 
leader, being named as the second-most digitally advanced county in the 
country.
  Mr. Speaker, I am honored to congratulate Phil Bertolini on being 
recognized as the 2017 Public Official of the Year. I would like to 
personally recognize and thank him for his tireless efforts and 
unwavering dedication to the community.

                          ____________________



