

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 164 (Thursday, October 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 164 (Thursday, October 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H7988-H7989]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1215
  HONORING STAFF SERGEANT RYAN McCARTHY AND STAFF SERGEANT CHAD HICKEY

  (Mrs. HARTZLER asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute.)
  Mrs. HARTZLER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor two valued members 
of Missouri's defense community, Staff Sergeant Ryan McCarthy and Staff 
Sergeant Chad Hickey. They are both stationed out of Fort Leonard Wood 
in Missouri's Fourth District, and these soldiers are exceptional 
representatives of their base, their State, and their service branch--
the United States Army.
  Both men recently received top honors at the Association of the 
United States Army's Annual Meeting and Exposition, where they were 
recognized for their leadership, excellence, and achievements.
  Staff Sergeant McCarthy, who is right here, was named the 
Noncommissioned Officer of the Year by AUSA. A combat engineer with 
more than 9 years of service, McCarthy has served multiple deployments 
in Iraq and Afghanistan. His dedication and leadership represent the 
best ideals of our Army and America's fighting forces.
  Another Fort Leonard Wood soldier, Staff Sergeant Chad Hickey, 
pictured here, was named Drill Sergeant of the Year. Hickey received 
the honor after winning a grueling fitness, endurance, and combat-
readiness competition

[[Page H7989]]

against the Nation's top drill sergeants.
  The fact that Staff Sergeant McCarthy and Staff Sergeant Hickey are 
both from Fort Leonard Wood is no surprise. The men and women stationed 
there serve with strength, seriousness, and purpose, setting an example 
of military leadership for the entire Army.
  To Staff Sergeants McCarthy and Hickey, and to all of the soldiers 
stationed at Fort Leonard Wood, I wish to extend to each and every one 
of you and your families our gratitude and congratulations.

                          ____________________



