

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 132 (Thursday, August 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 132 (Thursday, August 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S4825]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




 100TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE MINNESOTA-DAKOTAS KIWANIS DISTRICT CONVENTION

  Mr. ROUNDS. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize the 
100th anniversary of the Minnesota-Dakotas Kiwanis District Convention.
  Founded in 1915, Kiwanis International is a global organization of 
volunteers dedicated to serving the children of the world. With a motto 
of ``One Child and one Community at a time,'' Kiwanis members dedicate 
more than 18 million volunteer hours and invest more than $107 million 
in projects that strengthen communities and serve children. These 
projects include helping shelter the homeless, feeding the hungry, 
mentoring the disadvantaged, caring for the sick, developing the youth 
as leaders, building playgrounds, raising funds for pediatric research, 
and much more.
  Today the Minnesota-Dakotas District of Kiwanis has over 4,000 
members. With a club slogan of ``Serving the children of the World,'' 
the chapter supports a range of programs, including Kiwanis Kids--
elementary students--Builder's Club--middle school students--Key Club--
high school students--and Circle K--college students. In addition, the 
chapter supports Aktion clubs for adults with disabilities. These 
programs allow our youth and adults to build character, leadership 
skills and learn more about themselves and their communities.
  I congratulate the Kiwanis International Minnesota-Dakotas District 
of Kiwanis International on their 100th convention and thank them for 
their leadership and dedication to children and to their communities. 
May they continue to thrive for the 100 years to come.

                          ____________________



