

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 195 (Thursday, November 30, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 195 (Thursday, November 30, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7559]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         REMEMBERING ROGER ROTH

 Mr. ROUNDS. Mr. President, today I wish to honor the life and 
legacy of Roger Roth, who passed away on November 21, 2017, at the age 
of 70. Roger grew up on a farm near Chelsea, SD, and graduated from 
Cresbard High School in 1965.
  In 1969, Roger began 39 years of public service as a postal carrier 
and then the postmaster at Warner, SD. His dedication to the people he 
served was recognized in 2001 when the National Association of 
Postmasters of the United States named him the Postmaster of the Year.
  We are also grateful for Roger's 38 years of service in the U.S. Army 
Reserve in both Aberdeen, SD, and Alexandria, VA.
  For many years, Roger was also a coach and umpire for many youth 
sports teams from midget league to college. He coached and helped coach 
the Warner American Legion baseball team for more than 25 years and was 
a South Dakota American Legion athletic commissioner for 5 years. He 
was a positive force in the lives of thousands of young people and was 
admired by all who met him.
  He also played baseball and softball for many years and was inducted 
into the Aberdeen Area Softball Hall of Fame and the South Dakota 
Baseball Hall of Fame.
  He was the official scorekeeper for Warner High School boys' and 
girls' basketball teams and for the Northern State University men's and 
women's basketball teams. He even drove the bus for the Presentation 
College baseball and volleyball teams.
  Roger was a member of the Warner Volunteer Fire Department, the 
Warner Sanitary Sewer District Board, the Warner-Stratford Lions Club, 
the Moose Lodge, the League Postmasters, and the Local National Active 
and Retired Federal Employees organization.
  In the small town of Warner, whenever help was needed, he was there 
to help meet that need.
  Above all else, Roger was a loving, caring husband to his wife, Judy, 
and to his children, Jim and Becky. He is gone now, but memories of him 
will live forever in the hearts of thousands of South Dakotans.

                          ____________________



