

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 149 (Thursday, September 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 149 (Thursday, September 14, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S5709]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION BILL

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, today the Senators will keep working to 
pass the National Defense Authorization Act, the legislation that 
authorizes the resources, capabilities, pay, and benefits that our 
servicemembers rely on to be successful.
  The operational missions and tasks ahead for our men and women in 
uniform are as profuse as they are challenging. That is why it is 
essential that we meet our commitment to them by providing the 
equipment and the training they need to accomplish their missions. We 
should always remember that we have an all-volunteer force, and, in 
turn, we must support our warriors with the pay and benefits they and 
their families count on at home. This National Defense Authorization 
Act touches on every one of these issues.
  We have already made an initial downpayment toward rebuilding the 
military and restoring combat readiness with the spring funding bill. 
Let's take this opportunity to add to that progress now.
  As Chairman McCain pointed out yesterday, this bill is the product of 
hard work from both sides. In committee, Republicans and Democrats 
offered scores of amendments that were ultimately adopted to the bill 
that is before us, and all 27 of the Armed Services Committee members 
voted favorably to report this bill out. So there is no reason it 
shouldn't earn the same kind of bipartisan backing from the full Senate 
now.
  I look forward to taking a vote in support of the men and women in 
uniform who courageously put their lives on the line to protect and 
defend each of us. As I do so, I will be thinking of the servicemembers 
and their families back in my home State of Kentucky, and I know so 
many other colleagues will be thinking of the servicemembers in their 
home States and those deployed abroad as well.
  Let's keep working to bring this Defense authorization bill over the 
finish line.

                          ____________________



