

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 154 (Tuesday, September 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 154 (Tuesday, September 26, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6129]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      REMEMBERING ALAN HUTCHINSON

  Mr. KING. Mr. President, today we remember the life of Alan 
Hutchinson, who passed away earlier this year at the age of 70. As a 
beloved family man, veteran, author, and tireless environmental 
advocate, Alan dedicated his life to preserving Maine's most precious 
land, water, and wildlife. Future generations of Americans will enjoy 
all that the Maine outdoors has to offer thanks in part to Alan's 
dedication to conservation.
  Originally from Rhode Island, Alan first came to Maine as a student 
at the University of Maine at Orono, where he earned his bachelor and 
master's degrees in wildlife management. During the Vietnam war, he 
served his country as a biological research aid at Walter Reed Medical 
Hospital in Washington, DC. Upon returning to Maine, he began an 
illustrious career in environmental conservation, as a civil servant 
and leader of one of the largest land trusts of the United States, the 
Forest Society of Maine.
  In his career as a civil servant, he led the acquisition and 
conservation of 250 coastal islands and headed Maine's newly formed 
Endangered Species Group. With leadership, patience, and perseverance, 
he worked with diverse partners to protect our coast and wildlife. In 
1997, Alan became the first executive director of the Forest Society of 
Maine, FSM. During his tenure, the FSM grew from a one-person operation 
into a national leader in forestland conservation, helping to conserve 
over 1 million acres of forestland. Just as he did leading the 
Endangered Species Group, Alan achieved this success by bringing 
together diverse groups under a common purpose of protecting our 
forests. His notable conservation achievements include the 20,000-acre 
Nicatous Lake easement, protecting 6 miles of the beautiful Moosehead 
Lake shore, the 329,000-acre West Branch Project, and the unprecedented 
360,000-acre Moosehead Region conservation easement.
  In addition to his conservation work, Alan also authored two books, 
``Just Loons: A Wildlife Watcher's Guide,'' 1998, and ``Just Eagles: A 
Wildlife Watchers Guide,'' 2000. These books reflect his passion for 
Maine's outdoors that embodied his life's work. Alan will be remembered 
for his thoughtful leadership, dedication, and passion. Above all that, 
nothing exceeded his deep love for his family and his devotion to his 
friends. Alan will be sorely missed by all, and we owe him an enormous 
debt of gratitude.

                          ____________________



