

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 151 (Tuesday, September 19, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 151 (Tuesday, September 19, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S5867]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. BURR. Mr. President, I have 10 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to Rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


           Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry

  The Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, September 19, 2017 
at 9:30 a.m., in 216 Hart Senate Office Building, in order to conduct a 
hearing to consider the nominations of Ted McKinney and Stephen Censky 
to the U.S. Department of Agriculture.


                      Committee on Armed Services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, September 19, 2017, at 10 a.m., in 
open session, to receive testimony on recent United States Navy 
incidents at sea.


           Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, September 19, 2017 
at 10:30 a.m. in room 253 of the Russell Senate Office Building.


               Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

  The Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate in order to hold a Business 
Meeting on Tuesday, September 19, 2017, beginning at 9:30 a.m. in Room 
366 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building in Washington, DC.


               Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

  The Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate in order to hold a hearing on 
Tuesday, September 19, 2017 at 10 a.m. in Room 366 of the Dirksen 
Senate Office Building in Washington, DC.


                          Committee on Finance

  The Committee on Finance is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Tuesday, September 19, 2017 at 10 a.m., in 215 Dirksen 
Senate Office Building, to conduct a hearing entitled ``Business Tax 
Reform.''


                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, September 19, 2017 at 10 a.m., to 
hold a business meeting.''


                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, September 19, 2017 at 10:15 a.m., to 
hold a hearing entitled ``Nominations.''


          Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate, in order to conduct a hearing 
entitled ``Nominations'' on Tuesday, September 19, 2017, at 10 a.m., in 
room 430 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building.


                    Select Committee on Intelligence

  The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet 
during the session of the 115th Congress of the U.S. Senate on Tuesday, 
September 19, 2017 at 2:30 p.m. in room SH-219 of the Hart Senate 
Office Building to hold a closed briefing.

                          ____________________



