

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 159 (Wednesday, October 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 159 (Wednesday, October 4, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6294]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      TRIBUTE TO DR. TOM APPLETON

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I would like to take a moment to 
congratulate Dr. Tom Appleton of Lexington, KY, on his retirement from 
the History Department at Eastern Kentucky University. One of 
Kentucky's premier historians, Tom has spent his career writing about 
the Commonwealth's rich heritage. He joined EKU's faculty in the fall 
of 2000, and over the years, he has left a positive imprint on his 
students, his field, and his State.
  He has also proved to be an invaluable resource for me. A number of 
years ago, I began a series of talks focused on former U.S. Senators 
from Kentucky. In each speech, I have tried to convey a bit of 
political history through the lives of these distinguished individuals. 
Tom's counsel has been invaluable in my work to prepare these speeches 
and pay tribute to some of Kentucky's prominent political leaders.
  Before joining EKU's faculty nearly 20 years ago, Tom spent more than 
two decades at the Kentucky Historical Society. It certainly shows. 
Even the TV show ``Jeopardy'' has used him as a historical resource. 
Tom has been the coeditor of six books on the history of the American 
South, including a groundbreaking look into the lives of Kentucky 
women, and he is currently working on a biography of Kentucky's own 
A.B. ``Happy'' Chandler, who served as Governor, Senator, and 
baseball's second commissioner. Tom's passion for Kentucky's rich 
history is obvious.
  He has been a wonderful friend and resource for me, a real champion 
and advocate for our Commonwealth, and has made a lasting impact on the 
next generation through his teaching. As one former student recalled, 
``Dr. Appleton's mission in teaching Kentucky history was less about 
imparting facts and dates and more about ensuring that students 
departed the class with an enhanced understanding of the rich cultural 
tapestry of Kentucky. He admonished students to be worthy of the proud 
legacy of our Commonwealth's great statesmen, military leaders, 
writers, and sports legends.'' That is a legacy to be proud of.
  After his final semester of teaching, Tom could be forgiven for 
wanting to retire from his work as a historian altogether, but that is 
not Tom. He plans to continue his research and writing about the lives 
and events that shaped our home State, and I plan to continue reading 
his fascinating take on our shared Kentucky heritage.
  I wish Tom well, and I urge all of my colleagues to join me in 
congratulating Dr. Tom Appleton on a truly remarkable career.

                          ____________________



