

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 170 (Monday, October 23, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 170 (Monday, October 23, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6713]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                   TRIBUTE TO COMMANDER CHRISTIAN LEE

 Mr. BOOZMAN. Madam President, today I wish to recognize CDR 
Christian A. Lee for his induction into the Coast Guard Academy 
Athletic Hall of Fame on October 19, 2017.
  The Hall of Fame Award recognizes outstanding Coast Guard Academy 
athletes who distinguish themselves in military or civilian life and 
seeks to honor those who have substantially contributed to the 
excellence of Academy athletic programs.
  As a three-sport athlete at the Coast Guard Academy, Christian 
excelled in football, baseball, and track. On the football field, he 
was a starting wide receiver for 4 years and set a single-season record 
with 938 receiving yards. He ended his 4-year career with 149 
receptions, 23 touchdowns, and continues to hold the Coast Guard 
Academy record for alltime receiving yards. As captain, he led the team 
to its first ever NCAA playoff appearance in 1996 and was selected as a 
first team All-Conference wide receiver and kick returner. He was also 
named an Eastern Collegiate Athletic Conference and New England 
Football Writers first-team wide receiver.
  In addition to his successful football career, Christian 
substantially contributed to the academy's baseball and track programs 
and was named the most outstanding senior athlete in 1997. That same 
year, he led the baseball team with 15 stolen bases, 24 runs scored, 
and had a batting average of .321, earning him second-team All-
Conference honors. As a sprinter on the track team, he was part of a 
4x100 record-setting relay team and went on to compete at the New 
England Championship and the Penn Relays.
  Christian was a gifted athlete, and his induction into the Coast 
Guard Academy Athletic Hall of Fame is well-deserved. I congratulate 
him on this honor, and I am grateful for his dedication and service to 
our Nation.

                          ____________________



