

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 168 (Wednesday, October 18, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 168 (Wednesday, October 18, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6590]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, I have 5 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, October 18, 2017, at 2:30 p.m.. to 
conduct a hearing on nominations.


          Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, October 18, 
2017, at 9:30 a.m., in room SD-430 to conduct a hearing on the 
following nominations: Patrick Pizzella, of Virginia, to be Deputy 
Secretary, Cheryl Marie Stanton, of South Carolina, to be Administrator 
of the Wage and Hour Division, and David G. Zatezalo, of West Virginia, 
to be Assistant Secretary for Mine Safety and Health, all of the 
Department of Labor, Janet Dhillon, of Pennsylvania, and Daniel M. 
Gade, of North Dakota, both to be a Member of the Equal Employment 
Opportunity Commission, Carlos G. Muniz, of Florida, to be General 
Counsel, Department of Education, Peter B. Robb, of Vermont, to be 
General Counsel of the National Labor Relations Board, and Gerald W. 
Fauth, of Virginia, Kyle Fortson, of the District of Columbia, and 
Linda A. Puchala, of Maryland, each to be a Member of the National 
Mediation Board.


        Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs

  The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, 
October 18, 2017, at 10 a.m. to conduct a hearing on the following 
nominations: Jeff Tien Han Pon, of Virginia, to be Director, and 
Michael Rigas, of Massachusetts, to be Deputy Director, both of the 
Office of Personnel Management, and Emily Webster Murphy, of Missouri, 
to be Administrator of General Services.


                       Committee on the Judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, October 18, 2017, at 10 a.m., in 
room SH-216 to conduct a hearing entitled ``Oversight of the U.S. 
Department of Justice.''


  Subcommittee on Federal Spending Oversight and Emergency Management

  The Subcommittee on Federal Oversight and Emergency Management of the 
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, October 18, 
2017, at 2:30 p.m. to hold a hearing entitled ``Broken Beakers: Federal 
Support for Research.''

                          ____________________



