

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 132 (Thursday, August 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 132 (Thursday, August 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S4798]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
proceed to the en bloc consideration of the following nominations: 
Executive Calendar Nos. 158, 252, 253, 256, 258, 257, and 279.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will report the nominations.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read the nominations of Robert 
L. Sumwalt III, of South Carolina, to be a Member of the National 
Transportation Safety Board for a term expiring December 31, 2021; 
Karen Dunn Kelley, of Pennsylvania, to be Under Secretary of Commerce 
for Economic Affairs; Elizabeth Erin Walsh, of the District of 
Columbia, to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce and Director General of 
the United States and Foreign Commercial Service; Mark H. Buzby, of 
Virginia, to be Administrator of the Maritime Administration; Robert L. 
Sumwalt III, of South Carolina, to be Chairman of the National 
Transportation Safety Board for a term of two years; Peter B. Davidson, 
of Virginia, to be General Counsel of the Department of Commerce; and 
Michael Platt, Jr., of Arkansas, to be an Assistant Secretary of 
Commerce.
  There being no objection, the Senate proceeded to consider the 
nominations en bloc.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
vote on the nominations en bloc with no intervening action or debate; 
that if confirmed, the motions to reconsider be considered made and 
laid upon the table en bloc; that the President be immediately notified 
of the Senate's action; that no further motions be in order; and that 
any statements relating to the nominations be printed in the Record.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The question is, Will the Senate advise and consent to the Sumwalt, 
Kelley, Walsh, Buzby, Sumwalt, Davidson, and Platt nominations en bloc?
  The nominations were confirmed en bloc.

                          ____________________



