

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 181 (Tuesday, November 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 181 (Tuesday, November 7, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7058]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   TRIBUTE TO COLONEL ROGER PETERMAN

  Mr. DONNELLY. Mr. President, today, I wish to recognize and honor the 
extraordinary service of retired U.S. Army COL Roger Peterman, a 
Greenwood, IN, resident and dedicated veteran and public servant who 
served his country with honor.
  In 1967, Roger Peterman enlisted in the Army National Guard. He 
served in the field artillery in both enlisted and officer positions. 
He eventually moved through the ranks and rose to command two artillery 
batteries, an artillery battalion, the 38th Division Artillery, and 
held numerous staff assignments before retiring in March 2000.
  Colonel Peterman's Army service was one of distinction, as evidenced 
by his numerous awards and decorations, including the Legion of Merit; 
Meritorious Service Medal with two oakleaf clusters; Army Commendation; 
Army Achievement Medal; and the Army Reserve Component Achievement 
Medal with a silver oakleaf cluster and two bronze oakleaf clusters. In 
2012, he was presented the Office of the Secretary of Defense Medal, 
and in 2014, the National Guard Association of the United States 
awarded him the Distinguished Service Medal. In addition, Colonel 
Peterman was recognized with the Ancient Order of Saint Barbara Medal 
by the U.S. Field Artillery Association.
  Colonel Peterman has distinguished himself beyond his military 
service. The transition from the military to civilian life can be a 
difficult one for our veterans. We are grateful for Roger's post-
military service mission to help veterans and military families through 
that transition with his work as a transition assistance adviser with 
the Indiana National Guard. Roger is also chairman of the Board for 
Operation: Job Ready Veterans, which aims to prepare our veterans for 
success in civilian employment; the Indianapolis Veterans Court 
Advisory Board; the Indiana National Guard Relief Fund; the American 
Legion; and AMVETS. Roger also serves on the board of directors for the 
Indiana chapter of the Association of the United States Army and is on 
the executive board of Indiana Blue Star. As Roger enters his 
``second'' retirement, we thank him for his dedication and service to 
helping Indiana's veterans.
  Colonel Peterman's life has set an example not just for his two 
children and six grandchildren but for all Hoosiers. His commitment to 
defending our country and supporting our veterans is commendable. His 
integrity and tireless efforts have helped to make Indiana and this 
country a better place to live, work, and raise a family. We thank 
Roger's wife Carolyn, children, and grandchildren for sharing him with 
our country. We wish Roger well in retirement.

                          ____________________



