

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 176 (Tuesday, October 31, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 176 (Tuesday, October 31, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6920-S6921]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          PRESIDENTIAL MESSAGE

                                 ______
                                 

REPORT RELATIVE TO THE CONTINUATION OF THE NATIONAL EMERGENCY RELATIVE 
 TO THE ACTIONS AND POLICIES OF THE GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN AS DECLARED IN 
            EXECUTIVE ORDER 13067 OF NOVEMBER 3, 1997--PM 18

  The PRESIDING OFFICER laid before the Senate the following message 
from the President of the United States, together with an accompanying

[[Page S6921]]

report; which was referred to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
Urban Affairs:

To the Congress of the United States:
  Section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act, 50 U.S.C. 1622(d), 
provides for the automatic termination of a national emergency unless, 
within 90 days before the anniversary date of its declaration, the 
President publishes in the Federal Register and transmits to the 
Congress a notice stating that the emergency is to continue in effect 
beyond the anniversary date. In accordance with this provision, I have 
sent to the Federal Register for publication the enclosed notice 
stating that the national emergency with respect to Sudan declared in 
Executive Order 13067 of November 3, 1997, is to continue in effect 
beyond November 3, 2017.
  Despite recent positive developments, the crisis constituted by the 
actions and policies of the Government of Sudan that led to the 
declaration of a national emergency in Executive Order 13067; the 
expansion of that emergency in Executive Order 13400 of April 26, 2006; 
and with respect to which additional steps were taken in Executive 
Order 13412 of October 13, 2006, Executive Order 13761 of January 13, 
2017, and Executive Order 13804 of July 11, 2017, has not been 
resolved. These actions and policies continue to pose an unusual and 
extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the 
United States. I have, therefore, determined that it is necessary to 
continue the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13067, as 
expanded by Executive Order 13400, with respect to Sudan.
                                                     Donald J. Trump.  
The White House, October 31, 2017.

                          ____________________



