

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 202 (Tuesday, December 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 202 (Tuesday, December 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9799]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        REMEMBERING MAYOR ED LEE

  (Ms. LEE asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.)
  Ms. LEE. Mr. Speaker, today I rise with a very heavy heart upon 
learning of the passing of a great human being: San Francisco's Mayor 
Ed Lee.
  My thoughts and prayers are with his family--his wife, Anita, and two 
daughters--and the entire city and county of San Francisco and the bay 
area.
  My condolences are also with Leader Pelosi and Congresswoman Jackie 
Speier, two San Francisco leaders who loved Ed and will miss him 
tremendously.
  Ed was an unshakable champion for social justice, a tireless public 
servant, and, personally, a friend. He always put a smile on my face 
when he considered me as and called me his sister, being two Lees.
  He was such a kind and thoughtful person and a truly great leader. 
Even before he was mayor, Ed was a champion for the people of San 
Francisco as a community organizer and a civil rights attorney. As the 
first Asian-American mayor of San Francisco, he broke new ground for 
the city. As mayor, he fought to expand affordable housing, address the 
homelessness crisis, and ensure that residents could earn a living 
wage.
  Ed will be missed tremendously. He helped so many people in his life 
and he touched so many lives. Mayor Lee set the higher standards for 
mayors and all elected officials as a true public servant. As we 
grieve, we take comfort in knowing that he has left an inspiring and 
lasting legacy of uplifting and empowering families. We will always 
remember his beautiful smile and his passion for making life better for 
others. May his soul rest in peace.

                          ____________________



