

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 175 (Monday, October 30, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 175 (Monday, October 30, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6874]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       REMEMBERING CHESTER RENFRO

 Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, Chester Renfro of Pinellas County, 
FL, passed away this October 22. Chet, as he was known to family and 
friends, was a friend of mine, and I want to say a few words about him 
in his passing. Married to his wife, Betty, Chet was a graduate of the 
University of Southern California and an engineer by trade. He designed 
and installed industrial water pumps for commercial industries and 
water treatment facilities. He started his career in California, later 
moving to St. Louis and then Louisville, KY, where he started his own 
business. He moved to Pinellas County nearly 20 years ago.
  Betty was the love of Chet's life, and he adored her. When they 
married, they each brought their sons with them into the family--Betty 
and her three sons, Gene, Brad, and Paul Garcia; Chet and his two sons, 
Rick and Greg Renfro. Their daughter, now Melanie Nethery, came later 
to bless that family full of boys. Chet loved all of his children but 
was exceptionally proud of his grandchildren. He would be glad to tell 
you all about them and their accomplishments.
  Chet lived a full, meaningful life, and in everything--
professionally, personally, and politically--he worked hard. He loved 
his Wednesday golf game, his travels with Betty, and his pecan pies. He 
gave his time and energy to many State and local organizations, 
including the Southwest Florida Water Management District and the 
Pinellas County Canvasing Board. I looked to his guidance as a member 
of my academy board in the Tampa Bay region, interviewing many of the 
young men and women from that area who want to attend a service academy 
and serve our country.
  Chet Renfro leaves behind a legacy of service to others and of love 
for his family, friends, and country. He was someone I was proud to 
call my friend, and he and his family are in my prayers.

                          ____________________



