

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 185 (Monday, November 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 185 (Monday, November 13, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7177-S7178]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 236

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Nevada (Mr. 
Heller) was added as a cosponsor of S. 236, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to reform taxation of alcoholic 
beverages.


                                 S. 298

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 298, a bill to require 
Senate candidates to file designations, statements, and reports in 
electronic form.


                                 S. 317

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from 
Louisiana (Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 317, a bill to 
provide taxpayers with an annual report disclosing the cost and 
performance of Government programs and areas of duplication among them, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 794

  At the request of Mr. Carper, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 794, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act in order to improve the process 
whereby Medicare administrative contractors issue local coverage 
determinations under the Medicare program, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 821

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Leahy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 821, a bill to promote 
access for United States officials, journalists, and other citizens to 
Tibetan areas of the People's Republic of China, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 835

  At the request of Mr. Murphy, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Leahy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 835, a bill to require the 
Supreme Court of the United States to promulgate a code of ethics.


                                 S. 944

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 944, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to reform and extend the incentives for 
biodiesel.


                                S. 1002

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the names of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Cotton) and the Senator from Virginia (Mr. Kaine) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1002, a bill to enhance the ability of community 
financial institutions to foster economic growth and serve their 
communities, boost small businesses, increase individual savings, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 1109

  At the request of Mr. Merkley, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1109, a bill to amend title 
VIII of the Public Health Service Act to extend advanced education 
nursing grants to support clinical nurse specialist programs, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1338

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Ms. Murkowski) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1338, a bill to award a 
Congressional Gold Medal to the United States Army Dust Off crews of 
the Vietnam War, collectively, in recognition of their extraordinary 
heroism and life-saving actions in Vietnam.


                                S. 1361

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) and the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Coons) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 1361, a bill to amend title XVIII of the 
Social Security Act to allow physician assistants, nurse practitioners, 
and clinical nurse specialists to supervise cardiac, intensive cardiac, 
and pulmonary rehabilitation programs.


                                S. 1520

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Young) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1520, a bill to expand 
recreational fishing opportunities through enhanced marine fishery 
conservation and management, and for other purposes.

[[Page S7178]]

  



                                S. 1539

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1539, a bill 
to protect victims of stalking from gun violence.


                                S. 1559

  At the request of Mr. Risch, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1559, a bill to ensure a 
complete analysis of the potential impacts of rules on small entities.


                                S. 1679

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Ms. Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1679, a bill to amend the 
Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938 to increase enforcement of 
certain violations and strengthen certain transparency requirements.


                                S. 1803

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Kaine) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1803, a bill to improve 
medical research on marijuana.


                                S. 2005

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the names of the Senator from Iowa (Mrs. 
Ernst) and the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Carper) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 2005, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 to extend the publicly traded partnership ownership structure to 
energy power generation projects and transportation fuels, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 2009

  At the request of Mr. Murphy, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2009, a bill to require a 
background check for every firearm sale.


                              S. RES. 279

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 279, a 
resolution reaffirming the commitment of the United States to promote 
democracy, human rights, and the rule of law in Cambodia.

                          ____________________



