

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 181 (Tuesday, November 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 181 (Tuesday, November 7, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H8530-H8531]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              VETERANS DAY

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair now recognizes the gentlewoman 
from Alabama (Mrs. Roby) for 5 minutes.
  Mrs. ROBY. Mr. Speaker, in the year 1918, on the 11th hour of the 
11th day of the 11th month of the year, the armistice ending World War 
I was signed.
  Originally known as Armistice Day, Congress passed and President 
Dwight Eisenhower signed a resolution officially designating November 
11 as Veterans Day. Now, every year, Americans pause on this special 
day to recognize all those, young and old, who have served our country 
in uniform.
  While we should honor the service and sacrifice of our veterans every 
day, this day provides a unique opportunity for us to come together as 
a nation and pay tribute to the men and women who put their lives on 
the line for our freedom.
  This year I will be participating in my hometown of Montgomery's 
Veterans Day event, and I highly encourage you and your families to 
attend the festivities in your area. I can promise you that you won't 
regret it. For me, it is not only an opportunity to express my 
gratitude to those who have served, but it is also a chance for my 
children to meet veterans and to better understand the sacrifices that 
they have made for us.
  If you can't attend an event in person, I hope you will take time to 
reach out to friends and relatives who have served and let them know 
how much you appreciate them.

[[Page H8531]]

  Mr. Speaker, this Veterans Day comes as services for veterans are 
improving both on a national level and locally in Alabama's Second 
Congressional District. I have been impressed by the leadership of the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs, Dr. David Shulkin. He has been making 
the long-troubled department work better for those it serves.
  Closer to home for me, the Central Alabama Veterans Health Care 
System has improved its service rating and now ranks three out of five 
stars. This is encouraging news, especially considering that just a few 
short years ago the Central Alabama VA was one of the Nation's worst. 
Our VA now has the steady leadership of Dr. Linda Boyle, and there is 
no question that her guidance has made a difference in making this 
sustained progress.

                              {time}  1045

  I am eager to see it continue. We still have significant issues to 
address at our Central Alabama VA, which is why I will remain actively 
engaged in working to turn around the system.
  Mr. Speaker, it is my distinct honor to represent a district that is 
home to one of the Nation's highest concentrations of veterans and 
retired military personnel. One of the most rewarding parts of this job 
is being able to advocate for those who have served this Nation in 
uniform.
  I take my responsibility to look after veterans very seriously, 
whether pushing for better policies or fighting to improve access to 
the VA medical services or going to bat on behalf of someone the 
bureaucracy has left behind.
  So, Mr. Speaker, I would like to close by extending my sincere 
gratitude to everyone who has served this country and their families. 
Our country is great because of the men and women who were willing to 
sacrifice on our behalf.

                          ____________________



