

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 173 (Thursday, October 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 173 (Thursday, October 26, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6847]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        TRIBUTE TO NORM STEADMAN

 Mr. CRAPO. Madam President, today I wish to honor Norm 
Steadman for his longtime, dedicated service as mayor of Weippe, ID.
  Weippe was incorporated in 1964, but its roots go much further back. 
The Weippe Prairie is known to have been inhabited by the Nez Perce 
Indians. The city notes that it was not far from the present townsite 
in 1805 that Lewis and Clark had their first encounter with the Nez 
Perce Indians. This beautiful and strong community is nestled among 
many recreation opportunities, including historic trails, fishing, 
hunting, skiing, snowmobiling, and all-terrain vehicle resources.
  Over the years, the community has seen its share of booms and busts. 
It has been touched by the fur trade, gold rush, the Homestead Act, and 
the logging industry. The town's current population of approximately 
400 faces many of the challenges experienced by rural western towns 
with an enduring commitment to their community.
  Serving as mayor for a remarkable nearly 50 years following his 
initial appointment to the position in 1968, Mayor Steadman has led 
through considerable growing pains with a steady hand and commitment to 
his community that befit his name. A deep desire to help others and a 
sense of responsibility to lead his community are clear characteristics 
of Mayor Steadman's. His decades of leadership and working to overcome 
challenges with limited resources are commendable. Thank you, Mayor 
Steadman, for your nearly 50 years of dedicated service. You are truly 
leading by example by continuously stepping up to assist.

                          ____________________



