

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 198 (Tuesday, December 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 198 (Tuesday, December 5, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7842-S7843]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         TRIBUTE TO BONNIE KIND

  Mr. COCHRAN. Mr. President, I am pleased to commend Bonnie Kind, who 
has dedicated her professional career to serving the American people 
since starting her career with the Social Security Administration, SSA, 
as a student trainee more than 40 years ago. Bonnie currently serves as 
the Associate Commissioner for Budget and principal adviser to the SSA 
Chief Financial Officer. In her current role, she has provided 
vigilance and stewardship of the agency's approximately $1 trillion 
program budget and nearly $12 billion administrative budget.
  Bonnie has earned the respect and gratitude of many on Capitol Hill 
for her diligence and assistance in making sure Members and staff have 
reliable information on which to make budget and appropriations 
decisions. She has excelled at developing relationships over the 
decades as she educated congressional staff about the Social Security 
budget. Those dealings, combined with her understanding of the Federal 
budget process and political knowledge, have helped Congress understand 
the SSA budget and the service the agency provides.
  As importantly, Bonnie provides executive leadership and direction to 
SSA in administering a comprehensive program of budget policy, 
formulation, presentation, and execution. She secures and manages the 
financial resources needed by the agency and its employees to serve the 
public and to ensure stewardship of Social Security programs and 
resources.
  Prior to her tenure as Associate Commissioner for Budget, Bonnie 
served as the comptroller and chief financial officer for the National 
Security Agency where she oversaw financial management, accounting, and 
budgeting activities. Before that, she served as the deputy associate 
commissioner of the SAA Office of Financial

[[Page S7843]]

Policy and Operations. Bonnie earned a bachelor's degree in accounting 
from the University of Maryland and a masters of business 
administration from Loyola University of Maryland. She also holds a 
number of professional certifications, including certified public 
accountant, certified government financial manager, certified defense 
financial manager, and certified acquisition professional.
  Congress depends on the extensive expertise of dedicated public 
servants like Bonnie Kind. I extend my appreciation and congratulations 
to her for 40 years of dedicated service to the American people. I wish 
her the best in her retirement.

                          ____________________



