

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 160 (Thursday, October 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 160 (Thursday, October 5, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6355-S6356]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




REMEMBERING LIEUTENANT COLONEL FREDERICK HOLLISTER CAMPBELL AND AMY S. 
                                CAMPBELL

 Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, I wish to honor the lives of Lt. 
Col. Frederick Hollister Campbell and Amy S. Campbell.
  Lt. Col Frederick Hollister Campbell served in the U.S. Marine Corps 
for more than 25 years, serving in World War II, Korea, and Vietnam. He 
earned

[[Page S6356]]

a Navy Commendation Medal for saving the lives of 250 fellow marines at 
the Battle of Iwo Jima. After his military career, Fred opened his own 
private law practice and taught college-level classes at Colorado 
College and the University of Colorado.
  During a time when women rarely attended college, Amy received her 
B.A. in elementary education from National University and went on to 
receive her M.A. in reading education from Northwestern University. 
Prior to her marriage to Fred, Amy taught first and second grade. A 
two-time military widow, Amy lost her first husband, Bob Noran, as a 
result of injuries sustained during the Battle of the Bulge in WWII.
  Amy and Fred were married on April 14, 1951. A proud supporter of her 
husband's career, Amy put aside her teaching career to be a full-time 
officer's wife and mother to their daughter.
  Amy and Fred went on to live an incredible life together, traveling, 
raising their daughter, Susan, and volunteering with many 
organizations. Fred passed away on December 27, 2011, and Amy went on 
to live near Susan in Missoula, MT, before passing away on November 29, 
2016. I send my condolences to the friends and family of Fred and Amy, 
as they are both greatly missed. They will be laid to rest together in 
Arlington National Cemetery.

                          ____________________



