

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 162 (Tuesday, October 10, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 162 (Tuesday, October 10, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H7894-H7895]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         BEAU BIDEN FOUNDATION

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Mitchell). The Chair recognizes the 
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Fitzpatrick) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the formation 
of a partnership between the Beau Biden Foundation and Doylestown 
Health, which will clear the way for efforts to prevent, recognize, and 
react appropriately to child sexual abuse in our community.
  This critical program will be funded through the generous support of 
the Cowhey Family ShopRite in Warminster and will train local medical 
staff in the Darkness to Light's Stewards of Children course utilizing 
online education tools.
  There is no doubt that because of the compassionate efforts of these 
organizations, the Beau Biden Foundation, Doylestown Health, and the 
Cowhey Family ShopRite in Warminster, Bucks County, children will be 
safer and our community stronger.
  Mr. Speaker, I stand in strong support of this vital new partnership 
and all efforts to protect our society's most vulnerable.


               Honoring the Life of Christopher Ward, Sr.

  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor a lifelong 
Levittown resident, Christopher Ward, Sr., who passed away suddenly 
last month.
  Born in Bristol, Pennsylvania, Chris became an accomplished 
businessman and a true pillar of our community. With all his success, 
he strongly supported local small businesses and always rooted for the 
underdog.
  People in Levittown will remember Chris as the co-owner of Bailey's 
Bar &

[[Page H7895]]

Grille and Bailey's Plaza. But to his friends, employees, family, and 
all those who had the pleasure of truly knowing him, Chris was a 
humble, kind, selfless man with a loving, caring heart. He loved to 
make everyone laugh with his unique sense of humor, but what made him 
the happiest was being ``Chocolate Pop-Pop'' and spending time with his 
family.
  Mr. Speaker, Chris strove to be the very best father, son, 
grandfather, uncle, and brother. He will be sorely missed by our entire 
community.

                              {time}  1215


                      dysautonomia awareness month

  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize October as 
Dysautonomia Awareness Month. ``Dysautonomia'' is a general term used 
to address any disease that aggravates the autonomic nervous system, 
adversely affecting the body's involuntary functions. There are many 
types of dysautonomia, which can lead to other devastating illnesses, 
including Parkinson's disease and lupus.
  Dysautonomia afflicts nearly 70 million people of all ages worldwide, 
including constituents in my district like Liz Kennerley. While there 
is no cure, there are many treatments to improve quality of life, 
including medications and lifestyle changes.
  This month, we work to spread awareness of dysautonomia through 
education, community events, and lobbying, and we inspire family, 
friends, and neighbors to get involved and to take action.
  It is necessary that communities hold events for spreading the word 
about dysautonomia and for funding research to find a cure. It is on us 
to educate the public about this illness and to race towards a cure.

                          ____________________



