

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 207 (Tuesday, December 19, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 207 (Tuesday, December 19, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H10232]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                THE PASSAGE OF H.R. 1 IS THE FIRST STEP

  (Ms. TENNEY asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend her remarks.)
  Ms. TENNEY. Mr. Speaker, the passage of today's bill is the first 
step to providing desperately needed once-in-a-generation relief from 
the failed status quo, especially in New York State.
  Under this bill, the typical American family making $73,000 a year 
will see a tax cut of $2,059, and low- and middle-income New Yorkers 
can finally see an immediate raise in their January and February 
paychecks.
  As a single working mom and a person who cared for my elderly and 
aging parents, I and my New York colleagues fought an uphill battle to 
include provisions facing elimination that are vital to seniors, single 
parents, struggling families, and overburdened job creators, many of 
whom have left New York State in vast numbers.
  Despite the fact that these provisions faced the very real threat of 
elimination, our efforts were successful in securing the historic tax 
credit for a State like New York, with many of our Nation's most 
historic and most important national landmarks, expanding the SALT 
deduction--the State and local tax deduction--childcare and dependent 
care credits, and continuing the deductibility of medical expenses, to 
assist our most vulnerable seniors in defraying high medical costs.
  In New York's 22nd District, 99 percent of itemizers deduct less than 
$10,000 in property tax, the cap which represents the new deduction.
  Due to Albany's mismanagement, all the counties I represent are in 
the top 36 highest property tax rates compared with home value 
nationwide. This bill will provide relief on the Federal level, while, 
finally, finally, incentivizing Albany to respect taxpayers.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Johnson of Louisiana). The gentlewoman 
is no longer recognized.
  Members are reminded to heed the gavel.

                          ____________________



