

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 157 (Monday, October 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 157 (Monday, October 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6237]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        LAS VEGAS MASS SHOOTING

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, the news we awoke to this morning was 
heartbreaking. What happened in Las Vegas is shocking, it is tragic, 
and for those affected and their families, it is devastating. It is 
hard to even imagine their pain. I hope they will know that we are 
praying for them now. I hope they will find strength in the love and 
kindness of those around them in these hours of such darkness and pain. 
I hope they will see that our country is standing by their side today.
  Many Americans are still in shock. Others have begun to wonder why 
someone would do something this terrible. Investigators will continue 
their dedicated work in search of answers, but what is clear now is 
that this is a moment for national mourning and for prayer.
  Just a moment ago, President Trump led the country in observing a 
moment of silence. As he noted this morning, we are all grateful for 
the courageous efforts of the first responders. They always put their 
lives on the line to save others. They do so with a selflessness that 
reminds us of the inherent courage and mercy that remains possible 
within each of us--light amidst the dark, hope in times of terrible 
grief.
  The same is true of the national spirit of compassion that shines 
through our country in the moments when it is needed most. Whether it 
is lining up to donate blood or signing up to volunteer their time, our 
fellow Americans are always there to offer what they can when others 
are in need.
  We thank these Americans and law enforcement and the first responders 
for everything they have done. We thank them for their efforts that 
continue now.
  We again send our condolences to everyone affected by this terrible 
tragedy.

                          ____________________



