

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 186 (Tuesday, November 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 186 (Tuesday, November 14, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H9187-H9188]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       IMPEACHMENT PROCESS UPDATE

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. Al Green) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. AL GREEN of Texas. Madam Speaker, it is always an honor to speak 
here in the well of the House of the Congress of the United States of 
America. I do want to compliment you, Madam Speaker. I heard your 
statements earlier, and I would like to associate myself with the 
portion of your statement that dealt with transgender persons.
  Madam Speaker, I stand before the world today with an impeachment 
update. I have previously indicated that

[[Page H9188]]

there will be a vote on an impeachment resolution before Christmas. I 
stand by this. To this end, I will be meeting with appropriate members 
of House leadership this week to discuss the notification process. I 
want people to understand how this process works.
  I will have the opportunity to read the Articles of Impeachment from 
the well of the House. After this is done, there will be a time set for 
me to present them again before the House. It must be done twice. When 
that time is set, I will have to be notified of the time. I don't set 
the time. I have to respond at the appropriate time. For me to respond 
at the appropriate time, appropriate notice has to be given to me.
  This is why I will be meeting with House leadership so that we can 
discuss the means by which appropriate notice will be given to me. We 
want to make sure there is no confusion about this process and no 
confusion as to how the notice is to be accorded to me.
  I will meet with leadership to ascertain how the appropriate notice 
will be accorded to me so that I may present the Articles of 
Impeachment a second time so that, thereafter, there will be a vote on 
these Articles of Impeachment.
  Because the system is such that it can be difficult to understand how 
people have actually voted, I want you to know that those who vote with 
me and those who are supportive of advancing the cause of impeachment, 
I will be proud to announce who they are, and I will give Members 
further updates as to how this will take place.
  But I want to assure every American that this vote on Articles of 
Impeachment will take place before Christmas, and that this vote will 
be about the incitement of hate, about how the country is being pushed 
back, and how America is better than the direction that someone seeks 
to push us forward into.
  This is a great country, and we cannot tolerate hate. This may be one 
of the few times in the history of the country that persons will be 
given the opportunity to take a stand against hate by casting the 
appropriate vote in the Congress of the United States of America.
  I will give future updates on impeachment from this podium. I am 
always honored to stand in the well of the United States House of 
Representatives.

                          ____________________



