

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 192 (Monday, November 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 192 (Monday, November 27, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7332]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




           RECOGNIZING JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY ELEMENTARY SCHOOL

  Mr. DONNELLY. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize James Whitcomb 
Riley Elementary School of New Castle, IN, for being named a 2017 
National Blue Ribbon School by the U.S. Department of Education.
  Established in 1982, the National Blue Ribbon Schools Program 
recognizes schools that have demonstrated a vision of educational 
excellence for all students, regardless of their social or economic 
background. Since its inception, this program has offered the 
opportunity for schools in every State to gain recognition for 
educational accomplishments in closing the achievement gaps among 
students.
  Recognized as an ``A'' school 11 of the past 12 years, James Whitcomb 
Riley Elementary has shown its outstanding commitment to high-quality 
education. Through its core curriculum and extracurricular activities, 
faculty at Riley work to ensure that each child is receiving the best 
possible educational experience. As part of that effort, the school's 
staff communicates regularly with families and partners with community 
organizations to ensure that students are receiving the resources that 
they need. In addition, extracurricular opportunities are offered 
throughout the year and include Spell Bowl and Math Bowl competitions, 
a science fair, student council, and the National Geographic Bee. Riley 
students also regularly go out in the community for field trips to 
learn outside the classroom. Sixth-grade students take an annual trip 
to Washington, DC, to learn about the Federal Government in our 
Nation's Capital.
  Riley Elementary also puts an emphasis on service and giving back 
through fundraisers and food drives, instilling in students the 
importance of a community-focused mindset. Riley students participate 
in the annual Westminster Food Drive each winter to donate gifts to 
children at local shelters and abroad. The school also partners with 
Riley Children's Hospital through ``Spirit Week'' to connect students 
with young patients being treated at the hospital.
  Riley's students, facility, and staff work together to ensure every 
child succeeds, and the faculty partners with parents to encourage 
family engagement and parent involvement in school-sponsored 
activities, including a strong parent teacher organization.
  I am proud to recognize James Whitcomb Riley Elementary School's 
principal Nicholas John Middleton, the entire staff, the student body, 
and their families. The effort, dedication, and value you put into 
education has led not only to this prestigious recognition, but will 
benefit you and the New Castle community well into the future.
  On behalf of the citizens of Indiana, I congratulate James Whitcomb 
Riley Elementary School, and I wish the students and staff continued 
success in the future.

                          ____________________



