

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 199 (Wednesday, December 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 199 (Wednesday, December 6, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7890-S7891]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




   RECOGNIZING THE NATIONAL INTERSCHOLASTIC ATHLETIC ADMINISTRATORS 
                              ASSOCIATION

 Mr. YOUNG. Mr. President, today I wish to formally recognize 
the 40th anniversary of the National Interscholastic Athletic 
Administrators Association, NIAAA, which is headquartered in 
Indianapolis, IN. Since its founding in 1977, the NIAAA has established 
itself as a leading professional organization for educational-based 
athletic programs for academic institutions nationwide. This 
association plays a critical role in the development of our young 
people as athletic administrators work tirelessly to provide access to 
extracurricular activities, teach strong work habits, and promote civil 
engagement.
  December of 2017 will mark the 40th year since launching the NIAAA 
mission. The organization has since grown to over 11,000 members 
nationwide. Currently, its core curriculum consists of 45 courses with 
a budget over $1.8 million. Despite the known fact that physical 
activity improves the overall personal development of young adults, 
evidence argues that the quality of coaching impacts the developmental 
effects of extramural sports. To ensure that positive, professional 
development is preserved, the NIAAA offers resources for secondary 
school athletic administrators to manage safe, high-quality athletic 
programs for all students. Along with professional educational 
opportunities, the NIAAA has participated in 10 years of scholarship 
donations totaling to $120,000 and recognizing 600 students as 
scholarship essay winners.

[[Page S7891]]

  The NIAAA's commitment to its mission and its efforts to provide 
developed leaders is inspiring. In acknowledgement of its success, the 
NIAAA became the first national association to be accredited by the 
North Central Association Commission on Accreditation and School 
Improvement in the postsecondary division. The NIAAA has also developed 
the only all-inclusive Professional Education Program and Certification 
Program for secondary school athletic administrators.
  I ask my colleagues to join me in recognizing the NIAAA for their 
renowned administrators and for their dedication to America's youth. As 
one of Indiana's Senators, I am honored to represent the NIAAA and 
commend their commitment to responsible athletic 
administration.

                          ____________________



