

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 207 (Tuesday, December 19, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 207 (Tuesday, December 19, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H10247]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                            PETITIONS, ETC.

  Under clause 3 of rule XII, petitions and papers were laid on the 
clerk's desk and referred as follows:

       72. The SPEAKER presented a petition of Mr. Gregory Watson, 
     a citizen of Austin, TX, relative to urging Congress to 
     propose, pursuant to Article V, an amendment to the United 
     States Constitution that would, in addition to congressional 
     proposal, likewise allow an identically-worded suggested 
     federal constitutional amendment, approved by the 
     legislatures of at least two-thirds of the several states, as 
     an alternate means of proposing future amendments and that 
     would further provide for a same-day nationwide referendum as 
     the exclusive method of ratifying any future amendments; thus 
     repealing all references to a national proposing convention, 
     and repealing all references to ratifying conventions 
     conducted within the individual states, and repealing all 
     references to state legislative ratification; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.


 =========================== NOTE =========================== 

  
  December 19, 2017, on page H10247, the following appeared: 72. 
The SPEAKER presented a petition of Mr. Gregory Watson, a citizen 
of Austin, TX, relative to urging Congress to propose, pursuant to 
Article V, an amendment to the United States Constitution that 
would, in addition to congressional proposal, likewise allow an 
identically-worded suggested federal constitutional amendment, 
approved by the legislatures of at least two-thirds of the several 
states, as an alternate means of proposing future amendments and 
that would further provide for a same-day nationwide referendum as 
the exclusive method of ratifying any future amendments; thus 
repealing all references to a national proposing convention, 
repealing all references to ratifying conventions conducted within 
the individual states,; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
  
  The online version has been corrected to read: 72. The SPEAKER 
presented a petition of Mr. Gregory Watson, a citizen of Austin, 
TX, relative to urging Congress to propose, pursuant to Article V, 
an amendment to the United States Constitution that would, in 
addition to congressional proposal, likewise allow an identically-
worded suggested federal constitutional amendment, approved by the 
legislatures of at least two-thirds of the several states, as an 
alternate means of proposing future amendments and that would 
further provide for a same-day nationwide referendum as the 
exclusive method of ratifying any future amendments; thus 
repealing all references to a national proposing convention, and 
repealing all references to ratifying conventions conducted within 
the individual states, and repealing all references to state 
legislative ratification; to the Committee on the Judiciary.


 ========================= END NOTE ========================= 

       73. Also, a petition of the Yates County, New York, 
     Legislature, relative to Resolution No. 317-17, urging the 
     United States Congress to enact, and President Trump to sign 
     into law, H.R. 3576, the Second Amendment Guarantee Act; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.


