

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 188 (Thursday, November 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 188 (Thursday, November 16, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7278-S7291]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE SESSION

                                 ______
                                 

                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I move to proceed to executive session 
to consider Calendar No. 481, Gregory Katsas.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The question is on agreeing to the motion.
  The motion was agreed to.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will report the nomination.
  The bill clerk read the nomination of Gregory G. Katsas, of Virginia, 
to be United States Circuit Judge for the District of Columbia Circuit.


                             Cloture Motion

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I send a cloture motion to the desk.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The cloture motion having been presented under 
rule XXII, the Chair directs the clerk to read the motion.
  The bill clerk read as follows:

                             Cloture Motion

       We, the undersigned Senators, in accordance with the 
     provisions of rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the Senate, 
     do hereby

[[Page S7279]]

     move to bring to a close debate on the nomination of Gregory 
     G. Katsas, of Virginia, to be United States Circuit Judge for 
     the District of Columbia Circuit.
         Mitch McConnell, Mike Rounds, Chuck Grassley, Richard 
           Burr, Thom Tillis, John Hoeven, Ben Sasse, Roy Blunt, 
           Johnny Isakson, Tom Cotton, Ron Johnson, Mike Lee, 
           James Lankford, Jerry Moran, Lindsey Graham, Roger F. 
           Wicker, Bob Corker.

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the 
mandatory quorum call be waived.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                  National Defense Authorization Bill

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, just a moment ago, the Senate acted to 
send the President one of the most important policy bills we consider 
each year--the National Defense Authorization Act.
  Not only will this legislation authorize the resources, capabilities, 
pay, and benefits our men and women in uniform need to perform their 
missions, but this year's bill also goes further. It takes a notable 
step toward authorizing the resources needed to start rebuilding our 
military and restoring combat readiness.
  It will help improve our missile defense capabilities and better 
prepare us to deal with cyber threats. It will authorize a well-
deserved pay raise for our men and women in uniform while providing for 
continued reform of the benefits they and their families rely upon, and 
it will support the thousands of military servicemembers and families 
serving at military installations in Kentucky and in the Kentucky 
National Guard.
  Further, this bill strives to bring reform to the Pentagon. As 
Senator McCain said of the NDAA a few months ago, it will ``[build] 
upon the sweeping reforms that Congress has passed in recent years.'' 
He is right, and none of this would have been possible without him, 
without his leadership.
  I think I can speak for everyone in this Chamber when I say that our 
friend Senator McCain has served with distinction as chairman of the 
Armed Services Committee. I know the ranking member on his committee, 
Senator Reed, thinks so as well. I know a lot of Members on both sides 
of the aisle do too.
  Senator McCain's commitment to our men and women in uniform is 
obvious, and it is unwavering. He respects these brave Americans 
immensely; he cares about them deeply; and he understands better than 
just about anyone how important a bill like this is to them, not only 
on a policy level but on a personal level as well.
  The NDAA he worked so hard to pass has now cleared both Chambers. It 
is headed to the President's desk. Soon, it will become law. When it 
does, it will stand as yet another testament to the hard work, 
dedication, and unflappable determination of our colleague and friend 
Senator John McCain--truly, an American hero.


                        Tribute to Brian Forest

  Mr. President, on an entirely different matter, I would like to say a 
few words today about Brian Forest, a key member of my legislative 
office team, who is leaving the Senate after several years of 
outstanding work in the Senate.
  Throughout his time in my office, Brian has been an invaluable asset, 
taking on the daily challenges and countless responsibilities which 
come with the territory for my staff, but Brian did not just handle it 
all--he excelled. Regardless of the pressures, the deadlines, or the 
obstacles--and, believe me, there were many--Brian always came through.
  Now, regretfully, he has decided to take on a whole new set of 
challenges. I am confident he will continue to show the same skill, 
friendship, and good humor that endeared him to many in the Senate 
because that is who Brian is.
  I know I speak for all of those on my staff when I say I am really 
sorry to see him go. I wish Brian well in his new adventures, and I 
thank him for his service to our Nation, to the Senate, and to me.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Oklahoma.
  Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that I be 
recognized as in morning business for such time as I shall consume.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                          Museum of the Bible

  Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, this week, after 3 years of planning and 
construction, we now will be dedicating tomorrow and officially opening 
the Museum of the Bible.
  This is led by Steve Green of Hobby Lobby. We all remember Hobby 
Lobby of Oklahoma. Steve has been a friend of mine and his parents have 
been friends of mine for a long period of time. He is the chairman of 
the board of directors for this long-awaited museum that will allow 
visitors from not just this country but from all over the world--they 
will be coming here to see what it is all about and how this plays a 
pivotal role in our country's history. There is no better place than 
Washington, DC, in our Nation's Capitol, to remind us of the scope of 
the Bible's impact on our history and our narrative. It has been long-
awaited.
  Indeed, one of our Founding Fathers, Patrick Henry, was renowned for 
his readings of the Bible. He said at the end of his life: ``This book 
is worth all the books that ever were printed, and it has been my 
misfortune that I never found time to read it with the proper attention 
and feeling till lately.''
  He is the one--and not many people are aware that historians are 
relooking at the history of this country, and they are saying we could 
not have won that war. I mean you have to sometimes close your eyes and 
envision the greatest army on the face of this Earth coming down with 
thundering marches, going through Boston, and going up to Lexington and 
Concord. There is no way in this world that a handful of trappers and 
hunters could have won that thing. Yet we know why, and he knew why, 
when you talk about Patrick Henry. They said: We are not strong enough. 
It can't be done.
  There is one thing they overlooked, and that is the strength that 
comes from God that we had, and they didn't have. He said:

       We are not weak if we make a proper use of those means 
     which the God of nature hath placed in our power. . . . armed 
     in the holy cause of liberty, and in such a country as that 
     which we possess, are invincible by any force which our enemy 
     can send against us. Besides, sir, we shall not fight our 
     battles alone. There is a just God who [reigns] over the 
     destinies of nations; and who will raise up friends to fight 
     our battles for us.

  And he did, and they fired that shot heard around the world.
  I think that is really important today to think about because people 
come to this country and they want to know what makes America work.
  I have been privileged to sponsor the African dinner every February, 
and people come in from all over Africa. They are always surprised when 
they come and they find out walking through the Capitol what real 
significance God and the Bible has to the history of this country. We 
are the largest Christian community in the world. We cannot and should 
not deny the role our Judeo-Christian values played in the formation of 
this country.
  Our first President, George Washington, was steadfast in his belief 
of God, His law, and that liberty is God's gift. Washington's 
leadership was based on the conviction that Americans are entrusted by 
God to preserve basic freedoms established in the Constitution.
  In a letter, Washington wrote, ``We should be very cautious of 
violating the rights of conscience in others, ever considering that God 
alone is the judge of the hearts of men and to Him only in this case 
they are answerable.''
  It is clear our Founding Fathers recognized and enshrined the 
importance of religious liberty, one of our most precious and 
foundational religious freedoms that allowed them to live their lives 
according to the teaching of the Bible.
  The Bible's role in the founding of America is just one remarkable 
example of how the Bible has profoundly shaped world history. It has 
influenced cultures in every corner of the globe, and the Museum of the 
Bible, which is going to be opening tomorrow, pays tribute to its 
impact and intersectionality with the world religions.
  Whether considering the Bible through a secular or faith-based lens, 
it is impossible to deny its impact on individuals, countries, and, 
indeed, all world history. The Museum of the

[[Page S7280]]

Bible is the first educational experience I have encountered that truly 
appreciates the full magnitude of the Bible's role throughout history.
  The six exhibits, curated by a panel of faith leaders that span 
religious and geographic divides, truly bring the Word of God to life 
in a way that positively educates, informs, and encourages people of 
all faiths and beliefs to learn more about the Bible
  General Washington reminded us in his Farewell Address: ``Let us with 
caution indulge the supposition that morality can be maintained without 
religion.''
  Steve Green's father David founded Hobby Lobby. I remember this so 
well because I was in the State legislature at the time this happened. 
They started in their garage making frames for pictures. It turned out 
to be this giant, worldwide corporation, the largest arts and crafts 
retailer in the history of America, currently or in the past.
  Remember Hobby Lobby, when ObamaCare required that all employers 
provide free access to the pills that terminate pregnancies, David 
clearly recognized this as a violation of his faith. That is what 
America is all about. If you believe in it, you do it, you take a risk. 
He was risking millions of dollars, but the morality was so significant 
from the teachings of the Bible that he went ahead and did it. He took 
the challenge all the way to the U.S. Supreme Court and won in a split 
decision. He successfully argued the importance to maintain the 
fundamental freedom of religion to apply his faith convictions to how 
he operates his private business.
  David won his case, but his family understood we needed to do more. 
So he started the Museum of the Bible. I actually was there last June, 
when it was under construction at the time, as we walked through and 
visualized what it was going to look like later on. It is magnificent.
  They have a stage, and you live on the stage. He is going to have 
performances there. I am so anxious to be there tonight, the night 
before the official opening, to see now what it looks like.
  I am so grateful David's son Steve and his entire family are leading 
this effort to make the Bible and its impact more accessible to the 
whole world. I am especially honored that the museum will open on my 
birthday tomorrow. I am not sure they really knew that when they made 
the decision, but somebody knew it.


                          Energy Independence

  Mr. President, let me turn to another topic that I think is very 
important right now; that is, our energy independence. It is a huge 
issue. People are not aware, while we may have talked about the 
importance of the budget reconciliation process to set up and to pass 
the historic and much needed tax cuts for our individuals and small 
businesses, the process also allowed the Senate to use reconciliation 
for something equally as valuable--to allow energy exploration in 
Alaska.
  Yesterday the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee met to 
consider legislation to open up a very small part of the Arctic 
National Wildlife Refuge for responsible energy development. This bill 
was successfully passed by the committee, and I look forward to helping 
it continue to move through Congress.
  I have long been an advocate for this to happen. It is interesting, 
the people in Alaska all want it. The polling is something like 96 
percent of the people really want this to happen. They know the 
benefits that will come to Alaska, the money that will be there. People 
talk about the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge as if it is this great 
big thing. It is the size of South Carolina. It is a very small thing. 
Right now, we are going to be able to go up there to create jobs and 
opportunities and authorize the leases in Alaska. We will also increase 
revenue to the United States.
  It is estimated that the energy production in Alaska could lead to 
over $1 trillion in revenue. Responsible management will have a 
positive impact on reducing our national debt and most significantly 
opening ANWR is allowing Alaska to do what they want to do.
  We are so good in this body thinking that we know more about what is 
good for Alaska and what is good for Oklahoma and what is good for 
Georgia than they do in their own States. One of few things we do right 
around this place is how we do our highway bill. In the highway bill, 
we get the priorities from the States when they come in, and they 
decide what it is they want to do in their States.
  Remember the issue about the ``bridge to nowhere.'' Everybody was 
concerned about this. All the talk shows jumped on it without 
realizing, until it was too late, it had already gotten committed.
  Here was something that happened right for a change. I was chairman 
of the committee at that time. The ``bridge to nowhere'' in Alaska 
didn't go ``nowhere,'' it went somewhere. The problem was, there 
weren't any people there once you got there, and the reason is you 
couldn't get there. On their list of 100 priorities, No. 4 was to build 
that bridge, but we, in our infinite wisdom here, said: No, you can't 
do that. Somehow the public didn't know what they were talking about. 
Well, that is kind of the same situation we have right now. We have 
something in Alaska that was their No. 1 priority to develop, and for 
years and years we have stopped them from being able to do with their 
land what they wanted to do with their land. The Federal Government has 
been keeping Alaskans from acting in their own best interest.
  Finally, increasing energy production in Alaska is a key part of 
making the United States not only energy independent but energy 
dominant. We are on the verge of doing just that. Earlier this week, 
the Executive Director of the International Energy Agency, Fatih Birol, 
said the United States ``will become the undisputed global oil and gas 
leader for decades to come'' and that ``the growth in production is 
unprecedented, exceeding all historical levels.'' ANWR could be and 
should be a part of that story.
  Energy independence is vital to our national security. How many of 
these countries over there that have been part of the old Soviet Union 
want their allegiance to us, and yet they are forced to buy their oil 
and gas from Russia and from Iran and they don't want to do it. Now we 
are taking them off the hook.
  I had a great experience not long ago. I was invited by the President 
of Lithuania to come and open up their first terminal. Now we are 
changing all that.
  We have a guy named Harold Hamm, an Oklahoman who is the chairman and 
CEO of Continental Resources in Oklahoma. He announced they would begin 
exporting oil to China. Exporting to China is kind of a big deal. He 
talks about how we are going to become undeniably a leader in exporting 
energy that will have an impact on the rest of the world.
  President Trump has been clear that he intends to make the United 
States a net energy exporter, something we haven't been since 1953. 
Opening up the National Wildlife Refuge, which just took place this 
last week, will be a big step toward this initiative, and I applaud the 
Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee for helping the 
administration make this happen.


                  National Defense Authorization Bill

  Mr. President, the leader of the Senate, a few minutes ago, talked 
about the NDAA and John McCain's role in that. John McCain, of course, 
has been and is an American hero. Everybody knows his past and knows 
what he did and the suffering he went through.
  He was very instrumental--sure, we had some disagreements on some of 
the finer parts of the bill--but this is one that had to be done. All 
of a sudden we are changing what happened, unfortunately, in the past.
  I can remember about 3 years ago we got all the way to December 
before we voted this out. We have now voted. This is the 55th year in a 
row that we have passed a Defense authorization bill. If we didn't by 
the end of December, then our kids wouldn't be getting hazard pay or 
pilots wouldn't be getting flight pay, and it would be an absolute 
disaster. Of course, it didn't happen because we are now doing it.
  I have to say this. One thing that hasn't been said enough is what 
Senator McCain and a lot of his supporters were able to do; that is, 
reprioritize what defending America is about.
  Read the Constitution. Look at the history of this country. I always 
say people should sometime get out that old document that nobody reads 
anymore, the Constitution, and see what we are supposed to be doing 
around here.

[[Page S7281]]

  Do you know that what we are supposed to be doing in this body 
primarily is defending America, No. 1, and they called them post roads, 
back then, building roads and transportation. That is what we are 
supposed to be doing, but what has happened in our military is 
something people don't know about. I applaud our military in uniform 
now because they are saying it for the first time in my memory that we 
are in the most threatened position this country has ever been in. We 
have adversaries out there. Some are somewhat mentally deranged. They 
are rapidly getting or already have the capability of hitting an 
American city with a weapon. As tragic as it was when we went through 
9/11, what a lot of people don't realize is, if that were to happen, a 
whole city could be wiped out.

  The problem is that we have gotten away from prioritizing the fact 
that the No. 1 concern should be and the mission should be for us to 
defend America. To give an example, up through the 1960s, we spent over 
50 percent of all the revenue that came into the Federal Government on 
defending America. Do you know what it is today, Mr. President? It is 
15 percent. So we have gone from 50 percent down to 15 percent. What 
does that tell you? It tells you that the priorities aren't right.
  So we have looked at this, and this is a first step. This McCain-led 
NDAA is the first step in reprioritizing where we are. If anyone 
questions this, if you look at the Obama administration, when we were 
trying to recover on sequestration, he had a policy. He said: For every 
dollar we put in, we are going to have to put an equal amount into 
social programs. That shows you the lack of priority. All that is being 
changed.
  About 10 minutes ago when I started, I quoted Patrick Henry. You stop 
and think about the courage it took at one time to get to the point 
that we are going to be progressing to, starting with this bill, when 
he said: There is a just God who reigns over the destinies of nations 
and who will raise up friends to fight our battles with us. The battle 
is not to the strong alone but to the vigilant, the active, the brave. 
Gentlemen may cry ``peace,'' but there is no peace. Why stand we idle? 
What is it that gentlemen wish? What would they have? Is life so dear, 
is peace so sweet, it must be bought at the price of chains and 
slavery?
  That is what it used to be. That was the priority. And this bill 
reestablishes that priority as the No. 1 priority, as our history 
reflects we should be doing, as our Constitution has charged us with 
doing, and we are doing it with the passage of the national defense 
authorization bill. We are on the road to recovery, and I am very 
excited about it.
  I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. Without objection, it is so 
ordered.


                          Republican Tax Plan

  Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, I rise today to make a simple request of 
my colleagues on the other side of the aisle. When it comes to the tax 
legislation that Republican colleagues are rushing through Congress, 
please stop, slow down, and let's start over together.
  We need real tax reform with clear policy goals that will make our 
Nation more competitive, not a partisan attempt to pass something--
anything--that can get 51 Republican votes in the Senate. Our shared 
policy goals should be making the Tax Code fairer, simpler, and 
fiscally responsible. If we can achieve these goals, that would be real 
tax reform.
  If we worked together, we could take long overdue steps and build a 
tax code that lets working families in Michigan and across the country 
keep more of their hard-earned money, levels the playing field for our 
small businesses, and keeps good jobs here at home in the United 
States. Fairer, simpler, responsible--those are three key points making 
a tax code that works. If we don't start over, I am afraid the current 
tax legislation will fail on all three accounts.
  First, this tax legislation is not fair. It dramatically moves toward 
benefiting the wealthiest people in this Nation, with only a little 
sliver of the benefits going to working-class families.
  The Republican tax bill was clearly written to cut rates for CEOs and 
large corporations and treats the middle class like an afterthought. I 
would argue that working Americans who are struggling with stagnant 
wages--while the cost of prescription drugs, college, and housing 
continue to rise--need tax cuts that are built around them.
  Instead, we are looking at a Republican tax plan that repeals the 
alternative minimum tax--a fail-safe designed specifically to make sure 
that wealthy Americans cannot deduct their way to paying nothing in 
taxes. From what little we have seen of President Trump's tax returns, 
we know that the AMT--the alternative minimum tax--is the only reason 
he paid income taxes at all. The Republican bill will eliminate the 
AMT, and President Trump and folks like him will receive a huge 
windfall and may not have to pay any taxes at all--zero.
  Wall Street loves this bill, too, because hedge funds will continue 
to be taxed at lower rates than small businesses in our local 
communities. This means many hedge fund managers making millions of 
dollars will have a lower tax rate than an office assistant working at 
their firm. Simply put, this proposal fails on the test of making the 
Tax Code fairer.
  I also believe this effort fails on the test of making the code 
simpler. For small business owners back in Michigan, they want to spend 
their time doing what they know best, which is running their business, 
not spending days or weeks trying to figure out the taxes they owe. 
But, as many of my colleagues in the Finance Committee have pointed out 
throughout this week, the provisions for a small business passthrough 
serve only to make a complicated tax code even more complicated--yes, 
even more complicated.
  Expert analysis says that the passthrough provisions will require 
years of rulemakings and thousands of pages of additional rules and 
regulations. As a small business owner, unless your hobby is studying 
the Internal Revenue Code, this bill is going to make your life a whole 
lot more difficult.
  Finally, on the last test, the test of whether or not this bill is 
responsible, this proposal fails miserably. Writing responsible tax 
legislation means making hard choices--closing loopholes and balancing 
out the pros and cons of any action.
  Congress has the responsibility to take seriously the threat of a 
growing national debt, and we have to think about this when changing 
our Tax Code. But instead of working to reduce our debt, which we are 
passing on to our children and grandchildren, this proposal actually 
adds more than $1 trillion to our deficit. And it would be even more 
expensive, but in a haphazard attempt to limit the cost, the majority 
has put forward a bill where hundreds of millions of dollars of 
provisions that middle-class families could use to reduce their taxes 
expire at random times over the next few years.
  When you add it all up and factor in the additional interest costs to 
carry this new debt, you have a proposal that adds over $2 trillion to 
the Federal debt, according to the nonpartisan Committee for a 
Responsible Federal Budget. It is wildly irresponsible to pile on this 
debt to finance a tax break for the wealthiest people in this country, 
but it doesn't have to be that way.
  Tax reform can be bipartisan. The goal of tax reform must be fairer, 
simpler, and responsible. This isn't just idealism or wishful thinking. 
We have seen it happen before. When Ronald Reagan worked with Congress 
to pass tax reform in 1986, the bill received 97 votes in the U.S. 
Senate--yes, 97 votes. That is the sort of bipartisan approach we need, 
and we need to start working on that now.
  Michiganders--and all Americans--deserve a tax code that is fairer, 
simpler, and more responsible, not more multinational corporate 
giveaways and more debt.
  I will not stop fighting for hard-working American families and small 
businesses who deserve to see more take-home pay, and I hope my 
colleagues on the other side of the aisle will join me.

[[Page S7282]]

  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. COONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. Without objection, it is so 
ordered.
  Mr. COONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that upon the 
conclusion of my remarks, the Senator from Rhode Island be recognized.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. Without objection, it is so 
ordered.
  Mr. COONS. Mr. President, I rise today to express my deep concern 
with the tax reform bill that the Senate Finance Committee is likely to 
approve later this week. The latest version of this massive tax bill, 
which will impact every single American, was only released to the 
public late Tuesday night. Less than 48 hours later, the Finance 
Committee is ramming through this bill on a party-line vote without any 
hearings and without a thorough review of the bill.
  I strongly disagree with the closed-door process of developing the 
substance of a bill which skews the benefits to the wealthy at the 
expense of middle-class families and with this bill's irresponsible 
cost of $1.7 trillion over 10 years. I also want to tell my colleagues 
and the President that there is still an opportunity for us to do the 
right thing and to work together on tax reform.
  We should follow the example of the last time there was successful 
tax reform enacted by Congress. This was led by Republican President 
Ronald Reagan, Democratic Speaker of the House Tip O'Neill, and Members 
of Congress from both parties, who worked together back in 1986 to pass 
major tax reform legislation. Sure, they had strong disagreements, but 
they held lengthy public debates, compromised on both sides of the 
aisle, and eventually passed a major tax reform bill that was 
bipartisan, was fair, and did not add to our deficits and national 
debt.
  For some reason, my Republican colleagues seem to have forgotten the 
example of the last time the Congress actually passed tax reform. It 
happened because both parties worked together. It happened because both 
parties compromised. And while I believe there is still time for us to 
undertake this approach, what we are seeing right now is the exact 
opposite. I think that is a big mistake.
  When I am on the train back to Wilmington or when I am at home in my 
State of Delaware hearing from my constituents, my message about this 
bill is simple: I am worried what this bill will do to our fiscal 
health as a country and the middle class, and you should be too.
  Let me start by quoting a story from the Washington Post today whose 
headline reads ``Senate tax bill cuts taxes of wealthy and hikes taxes 
on families earning under $75,000 over a decade.'' Let me repeat that. 
The Senate tax bill cuts the taxes of the wealthy and hikes taxes on 
families earning under $75,000. The story is based on a report from the 
nonpartisan Joint Commission on Taxation which shows that the claims 
from President Trump and my Republican colleagues that this bill is all 
about tax relief for the middle class are simply wrong.
  I will quote from this story:

       By the year 2027, Americans earning $30,000 to $75,000 a 
     year--

  Solidly middle-class folks--

     would also be forced to pay more in taxes even though people 
     earning over $100,000 would continue to get substantial tax 
     cuts.

  Unfortunately, though, that is not the end of my concerns with this 
legislation. I am also alarmed by how much this bill would add to our 
Nation's budget deficits and by the long-term impacts it would have on 
our debt.
  According to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, this tax 
bill--this Republican-only tax bill--will cost over $1.7 trillion over 
10 years. That is $1.7 trillion with a ``t.'' What happened to my 
colleagues who spent years talking about the danger posed by a growing 
national debt? Now these very same Senators and Representatives are 
willing to put almost $2 trillion on our Nation's credit card. It is an 
astounding figure--more than twice as large as the emergency stimulus 
package Congress passed in 2009 to prevent the next Great Depression. 
It is more than twice as much as the much maligned so-called bailout 
that Congress authorized to prevent the collapse of the financial 
system.
  What does $1.7 trillion buy us? What is the great return on 
investment that would justify borrowing $1.7 trillion--mostly from 
China--in a time of near record-low unemployment? The Speaker of the 
House, Paul Ryan, publicly bragged that their tax plan would produce 1 
million jobs. That sounds good but not when you consider the cost. My 
math may not be great, but if you spend $1.7 trillion to get 1 million 
jobs, that is $1.5 million per job. That is not a great return on 
investment.

  To add insult to injury, the majority believes they can use this bill 
to also cut access to healthcare for millions of Americans because they 
have decided at the last moment to include a repeal of the Affordable 
Care Act's individual mandate--a critical part of that bill--law, which 
helps ensure a healthy risk pool, which, in turn, lowers premiums.
  Those who actually work in healthcare know this is a bad idea. That 
is why the American Medical Association, the American Academy of Family 
Physicians, the American Hospital Association, and America's Health 
Insurance Plans have all come out against the inclusion of the 
individual mandate repeal in this bill, saying that ``eliminating the 
individual mandate by itself likely will result in a significant 
increase in premiums, which would substantially increase the number of 
uninsured Americans.''
  The nonpartisan CBO agrees. They found that repealing the mandate 
will cause 13 million people to lose their healthcare by 2027, and 
average premiums would increase about 10 percent each year.
  The inclusion of the mandate repeal to pay for corporate tax cuts 
will hurt middle-class families across our country. It is politics at 
its worst, throwing aside the needs of our constituents to ensure that 
a small group of the wealthy get wealthy. That is because the core of 
this bill is based on a promise proven false time and again--that tax 
cuts for the richest Americans and most profitable corporations will 
somehow trickle down to help the majority of working Americans. We know 
that is not how our economy has actually worked. Even President 
Reagan's own budget director, David Stockman, said yesterday that this 
bill isn't going to increase wages for the middle class.
  The Senate bill proposes we cut the top corporate rate nearly in 
half; exempt more wealthy individuals from the estate tax, which 
impacts only the top 0.2 percent of Americans; repeal the alternative 
minimum tax, which affects those making hundreds of thousands annually; 
and cut tax rates for those earning over $1 million.
  Altogether, the core elements of this plan amount to $1.7 trillion in 
tax cuts, and my Republican colleagues are simply asking us to trust 
them that the benefits will somehow reach the middle class.
  If that isn't enough to prove that this bill being rushed through in 
today's markup is bad policy, my colleagues in the majority went one 
step further in this latest version by eliminating all tax breaks for 
middle-class families in 8 years while making the tax cuts for 
corporations permanent. This means that millions of middle-class 
families will see a tax hike in the future in order to fund permanency 
for corporate tax breaks. That is just not right.
  So here is what I think we should do. Let's slow down. Let's work 
together, Republicans and Democrats, to pass a bill that is actually 
good for all Americans. I believe we can get that done. I think it is 
our job and our duty. We don't have to start from scratch. There are 
bipartisan ideas. There are introduced, bipartisan tax bills that could 
make our code simpler and fairer and more effective.
  I will mention two examples of bills I have introduced--one with 
Republican Senator Shelley Moore Capito and another with Republican 
Senator Pat Roberts--that encourage manufacturers to use made-in-
America parts and incentivize companies that invent something here to 
make it here. I have introduced another bill with Republican Senator 
Jerry Moran--it has eight bipartisan cosponsors--and with Republican 
Congressman Ted Poe that would alter the Tax Code to boost

[[Page S7283]]

every aspect of the American energy industry, from oil and gas to the 
latest renewable and clean energy technologies. These are just a few 
ideas, but they represent a simple truth: that we can and should work 
together on tax reform instead of making this one more pointless, 
partisan battle.
  The same thing is true for our healthcare system. The American people 
have overwhelmingly said they want a bipartisan and open process to fix 
healthcare, not a one-party scheme by either party that throws our 
system into chaos with no plan to replace it.
  I encourage President Trump and Republican leaders to stop trying to 
pass tax reform with only Republicans and to reach across the aisle to 
work with Democrats and pass something we can all get behind.


                        Tribute to Megan O'Neill

  Mr. President, while I appreciate the opportunity to talk today about 
the very real need for bipartisan tax reform that helps working 
families, grows the economy, and doesn't increase our debt, I wish to 
turn to another important topic--the impending departure from my office 
of Megan O'Neill, my director of scheduling.
  Megan has been a part of our office for more than 5 years. She leaves 
later this month for an exciting new opportunity in New York City.
  Megan is quite simply one of the most capable, resourceful, 
intelligent, effective, and kind people I have ever had the honor of 
knowing or working with. One of the most well-worn sayings here in 
Washington is that ``everyone is replaceable.'' While that may be true 
for me, and it may be true for the Acting President pro tempore, and it 
may be true for many others here, it is simply not true of Megan. She 
is truly irreplaceable. I owe Megan a huge debt of gratitude for her 
years of service to my office, to Delaware, and to our country.
  Many of us who have worked with her will gather to thank her and wish 
her well, but I also wanted to take a few minutes to talk about--and 
probably embarrass--this remarkable woman.
  Megan is from nearby Chevy Chase, MD, but more important, at least in 
my opinion, is that she graduated from the University of Delaware as a 
``Fighting Blue Hen'' with a degree in economics and international 
relations. She interned in my Wilmington office during her senior year 
at UD and quickly became a staff favorite.
  Upon graduating, Megan moved to Washington, and I hired her as a 
staff assistant, working at the front desk in my DC office. It is a 
particularly demanding job--juggling visiting constituents, constant 
phone calls, and supervising interns. She proved herself to be mature 
and capable. I promoted her several times in quick succession until she 
took over as my director of scheduling in August of 2015.
  Over the course of her time in my office, I have come to deeply 
respect her as a professional, but more importantly, I have come to 
admire her as a person. In addition to being incredibly competent, 
strategic, and quick on her feet, it is Megan's boundless patience and 
optimism I will most miss. Regardless of how stressful, jam-packed, and 
uncertain a day may be, Megan is always able to ensure that everything 
gets done; that every constituent is heard, every important issue is 
raised, and that this Senator doesn't lose his mind.
  Megan is also famous for her seemingly permanent smile and sunny 
disposition. Some of her colleagues in my office chimed in with a few 
anecdotes. Oftentimes, I was told, throughout the day, Megan will 
announce she is off to get a ``fun drink,'' which might sound like a 
Margarita but is, in fact, always a raspberry lemonade-flavored Dasani 
sparkling water. When something comes up--whether it is a favorite TV 
show, album, or new restaurant, she exclaims: ``That's my jam!'' She 
also loves to travel, but one thing that makes her different is that 
when she has an upcoming trip, she is just as excited to plan it out 
minute by minute as she is to actually go.
  I can't talk about Megan without mentioning her family. She speaks 
frequently and lovingly about her parents Michael and Donna O'Neill and 
her younger brother Matt. As anyone who knows Megan is well aware, each 
summer, she is a key part of O'Neill week when she joins her parents, 
brother, cousins, and extended family in beautiful Bethany Beach, DE, 
to play Olympic-style beach games, eat, drink, and enjoy each other's 
company.
  Anyone who understands the Senate knows how essential schedulers are 
to everything that goes on here. No staffer has a more challenging, 
demanding, or complex role. We Senators have big vocabularies for our 
long-winded speeches, but the most important word a scheduler says is 
``no,'' and Megan mastered the art of saying no in a firm, 
professional, appropriate way, even when this Senator seems to always 
want to say yes.
  Schedulers wear too many hats to count. They are field generals, 
firefighters, political advisers, logisticians, psychologists, 
diplomats, managers, and air traffic controllers. They work as hard or 
harder than anyone else here but so often go unseen or unheard. Maybe 
that is why Senate schedulers are a very tight-knit group. Megan often 
speaks with great fondness and respect for her counterparts in other 
Senate offices, and it does not surprise me that they think highly of 
her.
  One of Megan's counterparts said she is ``always quick to share 
advice and ideas, and has been a great source of support when any [of] 
her colleagues need some kind words. She is efficient and effective 
while also being so nice and compassionate.''
  Megan's compassion is, at the end of the day, what makes her such an 
incredible person and an irreplaceable part of our team. Regardless of 
who someone may be, when they work with Megan, they are treated with 
dignity and respect. Time and again, I have heard from people who are 
so grateful for her generosity, patience, and kindness. I have seen her 
help and stick up for her colleagues, even when that was difficult to 
do.
  Let me close by simply saying to my friend and colleague Megan 
O'Neill: Thank you. Thank you for everything you have done for me, for 
your colleagues, for your friends in the Senate, for the State of 
Delaware, and our country. The Senate is a place full of amazing, 
talented people, but even among them, you have stood out in your time 
here, and we will all miss you dearly. Thank you.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The Senator from Rhode Island is 
recognized.


                          Republican Tax Plan

  Mr. REED. Mr. President, it is our responsibility to ensure that 
future generations will have greater opportunity and greater security 
than we inherited from our parents and our forebears. To accomplish 
this, we must put aside political expedience and take a sober look at 
the health of our national economy and our ability to keep our 
commitments at home and around the world. With this in mind, I rise to 
urge my colleagues to reject the partisan and fiscally irresponsible 
Republican tax proposals in the so-called Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. When 
we strip away the rosy, but false, economic projections and 
ideologically motived economic theories the Republicans have been using 
to hype this bill, it is clear this bill trades away our nation's long-
term economic health and the well-being of working Americans, the poor, 
the sick, and the old in order to benefit the wealthy. Moreover, this 
bill will take us trillions of dollars deeper into debt at a time when 
the costs of 16 years of debt-financed wars continue to mount. 
Republicans owe it to our country and to future generations who will be 
stuck with the multi-trillion-dollar cost of this bill to go back to 
the drawing board and produce a balanced and permanent bipartisan path 
forward on our Nation's broken Tax Code.
  It does not take an economist to see that the Republican tax bill is 
a historic $1.5 trillion transfer of wealth from poor and working 
Americans to the very wealthiest among us, but a few of its glaring 
injustices are worth mentioning. According to the Center for Budget and 
Policy Priorities, it gives over twice as much tax relief to 
millionaires as it does to Americans making under $50,000. Just 5,000 
of the wealthiest American families will receive hundreds of billions 
of dollars over a decade in the form of estate tax breaks at a time 
when income and wealth inequality in this country are at historic 
highs. This transfer of wealth through estate tax repeal alone requires 
us to go back to the drawing board. On the other hand, the bill

[[Page S7284]]

raises taxes on 19.4 million households earning under $200,000 by as 
much as $500. Forty-six percent of households making under $100,000 and 
50 percent of households making under $75,000 will either see their 
taxes go up over the next decade or see no change at all, and that is 
just the tip of the iceberg. While tax cuts for big corporations are 
made permanent, the Republican bill plans to claw back what little it 
gives to everyone else after a few years, setting up even bigger tax 
hikes for the middle class down the line. This does not even begin to 
cover the return of TrumpCare that has been added to this bill, which 
would take healthcare coverage away from 13 million Americans and drive 
up costs substantially for the poor, the sick, and the elderly.
  This bill is a bad investment and, frankly, it is one we can ill 
afford. According to the Penn Wharton Budget Model provided by the 
University of Pennsylvania, the bill will reduce Federal revenue by as 
much as $1.7 trillion and increase our national debt by $2 trillion in 
the 10-year budget window. By 2040, this becomes $3.6 trillion in lost 
Federal revenue and up to $6.9 trillion in debt. We would take on all 
this debt for an estimated 0.4 to 0.9 percent boost in GDP. For $1.5 
trillion, we could make needed repairs to our streets and highways 
across America--creating tens of thousands of jobs in the process. We 
could pay off every American's credit card or student loan, or lift 
every American above the poverty line for years. Instead, this bill 
would put yet another massive charge on America's credit card that will 
not create jobs, will not trickle down, and most certainly will not pay 
for itself. We still have a $5.6 trillion in deficits and interest 
payments from the Bush tax cuts to prove it. With over $20 trillion in 
national debt, it is long past time to stop experimenting with people's 
lives and livelihoods to prove yet again there are no merits to supply-
side economics. America has pressing needs and very real bills coming 
due.
  Mr. President, I would like to spend the remaining time of my remarks 
addressing something about which we have heard far too little in this 
debate, and that is the impact on our national economic health of the 
unavoidable and compounding cost of 16 years of military conflict paid 
for almost entirely through debt. For the first time in our history, 
the United States reduced revenue--in the form of the Bush tax cuts--
rather than the usual pay-as-you-go approach to financing the post-9/11 
wars. While we debate potentially adding trillions of dollars to the 
debt for an ill-conceived tax bill, the costs of war are coming due.
  According to calculations in the thorough report by the Costs of War 
Project by the Watson Institute at Brown University, ``[e]ven if the 
U.S. stopped spending on war at the end of this fiscal year, interest 
costs alone on borrowing to pay for the wars will continue to grow 
apace . . . [f]uture interest costs for overseas contingency operations 
spending alone are projected to add more than $1 trillion to the 
national debt by 2023. By 2056, a conservative estimate is that the 
interest costs will be about $8 trillion, unless the U.S. changes the 
way it pays for the wars.''
  In a sense, what we are doing is mortgaging the future of our 
children and grandchildren as we continue to add debt, and this is 
unavoidable debt in so many cases. We know we cannot immediately stop 
our engagement in countries throughout the world--in Afghanistan, in 
the Middle East and other areas. And, frankly, we are facing tremendous 
challenges in the Korean Peninsula. The approximate combined 
President's budget request for the Departments of Defense, State, and 
USAID for fiscal year 2018 is $14 billion for Iraq and Syria, and $48.9 
billion for Afghanistan.
  Furthermore, these costs do not account for much needed maintenance 
and modernization of our military assets. For example, modernizing, 
operating, and sustaining our nuclear triad--which includes submarines, 
bombers, and ICBMs--is projected to cost $1.2 trillion in 2017 dollars 
over the next 30 years. We are debating taking $1.5 trillion and giving 
it to the wealthiest Americans when we know that we need an additional 
$1.2 trillion over 30 years to secure the safety of the United States 
and the civility of the world through nuclear deterrence. This begs the 
very simple question: If we want to borrow $1.5 trillion, why don't we 
invest it in a cost we know will come due--protecting our country and 
the world through the renovation and reinvigoration of our nuclear 
triad.
  The Navy recently validated a requirement for 355 ships. This would 
require the Navy to purchase around 329 new ships over 30 years--an 
average cost of $102 billion per year through 2047, which is 13 percent 
more than the $90 billion needed to build and operate the current 254-
ship fleet envisioned in the Navy's 2017 plan. Once again, we are 
committing ourselves to billions of dollars of costs to our Navy 
shipbuilding program while we are entertaining a 1.5 or more trillion-
dollar tax giveaway to the wealthiest Americans. We know these costs 
are coming due, but we are fooling ourselves into thinking we can 
continue spending on credit forever.
  We can expect even greater costs if our military increases end 
strength, as so many on both sides of the aisle are proposing. This is 
because of high operational tempo, which is not likely to diminish. For 
every additional 10,000 servicemembers, it costs roughly $1.8 billion 
per year for pay and benefits, and to train and equip these personnel. 
If the Army grows to 580,000 personnel, it will cost an additional $18 
billion per year, but we are taking that money, and we are giving it in 
tax cuts, the prominent amount of which is going to the wealthiest 
Americans. We are not investing it now in increasing our military 
forces. If the Air Force grows by 30,000 personnel, it will cost an 
additional $6 billion per year. If the Marine Corps grows by 20,000 
personnel, it will cost an additional $3.6 billion per year. If you 
talk to the Commandant or Chief of Staff of the Air Force, they will 
tell you they have to increase the size of their force because of the 
operational tempo. Indeed, if you talk to the Chief of Staff of the Air 
Force, he will tell you they are in a desperate situation maintaining 
sufficient pilots to fly our aircraft. So we could be buying hundreds 
of new F-35 aircraft at a significant cost and watch them parked 
because we can't afford the flight crews to fly them and to maintain 
them. We know these costs are coming, and we are ignoring them until 
they come due. We are ignoring them now for the benefit of these tax 
cuts.
  If we do not chart a responsible path forward on economic policy, we 
will leave all these costs to the next generation, to the detriment of 
our children, our national security, and our position of world 
leadership. Frankly, it might not be even that long before serious 
issues materialize. Once the markets determine that $1.5 trillion is 
just a small fraction of what we still must pay to protect ourselves; 
to continue our commitment in Afghanistan, to continue to support 
allies across the globe, markets may learn very quickly that the 
deficit is beginning to devour us. The markets will react, as they have 
in the past. So we could see a serious problem long before even our 
children confront these debts.

  That is why earlier today former Secretaries of Defense Leon Panetta, 
Chuck Hagel, and Ash Carter sent a letter to congressional leadership 
and the House and Senate Armed Services Committee leadership that 
warned us that the fiscal irresponsibility of the Republican tax 
proposal will contribute to a growing budget crisis. The letter urges 
Congress to instead address the sequester that threatens to ``hollow 
out'' our military's ability to sustain the commitments of its global 
missions.
  Mr. President, tax policies have real consequences. We can debate the 
value of one tax proposal over another, but that is not the debate 
before us. The simple facts are that this tax bill will give breaks to 
the people who need them the least, take money from working Americans, 
leave millions of Americans sicker and worse off, and further strain 
our ability to keep America safe from growing and changing threats 
across the globe. It also threatens expenditures on healthcare, 
education, infrastructure, and other vital domestic needs as the debt 
balloons due to this bill's unaffordable tax breaks for corporate 
titans. This is not what we owe the next generation. It is not even 
what we owe our children today. I urge my colleagues across the aisle 
to consider our Nation's future and join us in opposing this 
legislation.

[[Page S7285]]

  Like so many here, I was here in 2001 when President George W. Bush 
proposed his tax cuts, which I opposed, and assured us that our economy 
would grow, that jobs would multiply, that we would be fine. Let me 
remind my colleagues that he said this after we had made the tough 
decisions in the Clinton Administration that led to a projected surplus 
in the billions of dollars. The mantra from many people at the time 
was, let's give the money back to the American people.
  We don't have a surplus today. We have a significant deficit. It will 
grow with this bill because this bill says that we are going to 
increase it by $1.5 trillion at a minimum, and it will not be just $1.5 
trillion.
  I suggest that, unless we abandon our commitments to the men and 
women of our Armed Forces, unless we decide to disengage from the 
deterrent that we must have to defend the Nation from a nuclear 
Armageddon, unless we decide to leave Afghanistan--after the President 
announced that no longer are we basing our decisions on time but on 
conditions--there will continue to be trillions and trillions of 
dollars of unavoidable costs that should be included in this debate.
  This is not the time to take trillions of dollars and give a 
disproportionate share to the wealthiest Americans. This is the time 
for us to work together, to provide the resources for our military, to 
provide investments for our people, and to deal with the issue of 
inequality between the wealthiest 1 percent and everybody else. None of 
that is accomplished by this bill. In fact, this bill will complicate, 
compound, and make even more difficult the problems we face in 
defending the Nation and giving people a chance at having better 
futures.
  I yield the floor.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The Senator from Iowa.


     Blue Slips and the Nominations of David Stras and Kyle Duncan

  Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, earlier this week, I spoke about the 
history of the blue-slip courtesy. I hope my colleagues will read that 
history as well. I explained in that speech earlier this week that in 
my nearly four decades in the Senate, I have regularly returned my blue 
slip even when I would have preferred that the President had nominated 
someone else.
  Today, I am announcing that the Judiciary Committee will hold a 
hearing for two circuit court nominees, each of whom has one home State 
Senator who has not returned a blue slip containing a positive 
endorsement.
  The hearing for Justice David Stras, nominee to the Eighth Circuit, 
and Kyle Duncan, nominee to the Fifth Circuit, will take place on 
November 29. Both of these nominees appear to be very well qualified, 
and they deserve the Judiciary Committee's further consideration. I 
would therefore like to offer an explanation as to why I am choosing to 
proceed on these nominations and allow the hearing despite the lack of 
two positive blue slips.
  As I explained earlier this week, the blue-slip courtesy is just 
that--a courtesy. For 100 years, the Judiciary Committee chairmen have 
asked for the views of home State Senators on judicial nominees via the 
blue-slip process. The blue slip is meant to solicit insights into 
nominees and ensure that the White House is adequately consulting with 
home State Senators as the advice part of the advice and consent would 
apply.
  Let me be very clear. I will maintain the blue-slip courtesy, but 
some of my Democratic colleagues and leftwing outside groups mistakenly 
assert that the blue slip affords a home State Senator veto power over 
a nominee. That is not true. Only 2 out of the 18 previous chairmen of 
this committee in the last 100 years allowed a single Senator to wield 
veto power over a nominee.
  Senator Joe Biden, when he was the Judiciary Committee chairman, 
articulated what I consider to be a sensible policy with regard to the 
blue slip. He said that a negative blue slip will be a ``significant 
factor'' for the committee to weigh, but ``it will not preclude 
consideration of a nominee'' unless the administration were to fail to 
consult with the Senator. I intend to follow this practice for negative 
and unreturned blue slips. This practice is consistent with the vast 
majority of the blue slip's history.
  I will add that I am less likely to proceed on a district court 
nominee who does not have two positive blue slips from home State 
Senators, but circuit courts, as we know, cover multiple States. There 
is less reason to defer to the views of a single State's Senator for 
such nominees when that nominee is going to serve several States in a 
circuit.
  It is important to remember that the judicial confirmation process 
has changed over the last several years. Previously, when home State 
Senators did not return a positive blue slip, their colleagues often 
defeated that very same nomination on the floor but not in committee.
  When President Bush nominated Carolyn Kuhl to the Ninth Circuit, her 
home State Senators did not return positive blue slips. Chairman Hatch, 
nevertheless, held a hearing and a vote for that nominee. Her home 
State Senators, however, convinced their colleagues to filibuster the 
nominee on the Senate floor. Carolyn Kuhl was never confirmed.
  A few years ago, as we know--I think it was in 2013--Democrats 
abolished the filibuster for nominees to the lower courts. They argued 
that a minority of Senators should not be allowed to block nominees who 
had majority support.
  Our colleague, the Senator from Oregon, said: `` `Advice and consent' 
was never envisioned as a check that involved a minority of the Senate 
being able to block a Presidential [nomination].'' Well, now that 
Senator is withholding his blue slip for a nominee to the Ninth 
Circuit. If he did not believe that 41 Senators should be able to block 
a nominee, he surely wouldn't believe that a single Senator would have 
that right.
  I think the Democrats now seriously regret that they abolished the 
filibuster, as I warned them about at that particular time when they 
were trying to add a lot of people who were not needed on the DC 
Circuit Court of Appeals, as an example--packing the court, in other 
words. They cannot veto it because there is not a filibuster, so they 
want to use the blue slip for that purpose. It is very clear from the 
history of the blue slip that that is not what the blue slip was meant 
for.
  On the other hand, some have argued that the blue-slip courtesy has 
no place in modern judicial confirmations. The LA Times recently 
suggested getting rid of the blue slip, as did the New York Times 
several years ago. Even our committee's ranking member, Senator 
Feinstein, once advocated for abolishing the blue slip.
  I disagree that we should abolish the blue slip. The blue slip serves 
the important purpose of encouraging consultation between the White 
House and the Senate. Otherwise, the constitutional provision of advice 
and consent is just consent. But there is opportunity to advise ahead 
of time. That is what the blue slips help to do. The blue slip serves 
the important purpose of encouraging consultation between the White 
House and the Senate. The White House has an obligation to engage in 
good-faith consultation with home State Senators for the purpose of 
advice.
  I will not allow the White House to just steamroll home State 
Senators, but, as I have said all along, I will not allow the blue-slip 
process to be abused. Ever since last November, when the press had 
asked me about the blue slip, I have said that we are going to honor 
the blue-slip process but that there are always exceptions. I am not 
going to allow Senators to prevent a committee hearing for political or 
ideological reasons. Those are the least reasons not to have a hearing. 
Using the blue slip for these purposes is not consistent with 
historical practice.
  This brings me to one of the two nominations we are having on 
November 29, that of Justice David Stras of Minnesota.
  Justice Stras appears to be exceptionally well qualified. He 
graduated first in his class from the University of Kansas Law School. 
He clerked for both the Ninth Circuit and the Fourth Circuit and then 
for U.S. Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas. After several years in 
private practice in Minnesota, Justice Stras joined the faculty of the 
University of Minnesota Law School. He remained there until his 
appointment to the Minnesota Supreme Court in 2010. In 2012, he was

[[Page S7286]]

elected to a full 6-year term on the court by 56 percent of Minnesota 
voters. Think about one's not returning a blue slip when somebody gets 
56 percent of the vote to be returned to the court.
  Justice Stras was raised by a single mother in Kansas. He is the 
grandson of Holocaust survivors. He carries the lessons passed down by 
his grandparents with him each day.

  I want to refer to a writing he just submitted to a leading 
newspaper. Writing recently about their survival in Auschwitz and then 
immigrating to the United States, he recalled that his grandfather had 
``the uncommon gift of being able to see the light of human generosity 
in the midst of near-total darkness.''
  He wrote that his grandparents embraced ``a message of optimism, 
intended to ensure that their children and grandchildren were able to 
lead a life free from the atrocities that they had witnessed.''
  Justice Stras has an impeccable reputation in the Minnesota legal 
community.
  His former colleagues at the University of Minnesota Law School 
describe him as a person who ``engaged in debate respectfully, 
listening to opposing ideas while backing up his own views with facts 
and arguments'' and who ``wanted our students to be exposed to a wide 
range of beliefs.''
  Another group of colleagues of Justice Stras from his days in private 
practice describe this justice as the type of attorney who ``never 
talked down to people'' and ``there was never any hint that he felt 
himself superior to anyone.'' Instead, Justice Stras ``listened to 
others' views, and worked to find an approach to legal problems that 
was both effective and acceptable to everyone on the team.'' They also 
note in that letter his dedication to mentoring young lawyers.
  Despite these accomplishments and accolades, one Senator has withheld 
his blue slip. Evidently, my colleague from Minnesota believes that 
Justice Stras has not even earned a hearing before the Senate Judiciary 
Committee. But the reasons given for withholding the blue slip are not 
consistent with the blue slip's purposes and history.
  Justice Stras was nominated to the Eighth Circuit on May 8, more than 
6 months ago. After many months, my colleague formally announced that 
he would not return a blue slip. He cited Justice Stras's ``deeply 
conservative judicial philosophy,'' as well as his admiration for 
Justice Thomas and Justice Scalia. To me, this amounts to an 
ideological litmus test: Admirers of Justice Thomas and Justice Scalia 
need not ever apply for being on a circuit court.
  The Minnesota StarTribune's editorial board summed it up. They said 
the Senator from Minnesota ``rejected Stras for one reason: the 
justice's conservative views.''
  The editorial board of the largest newspaper in Minnesota echoed the 
retired justice, Paul Anderson:

       While Stras is more conservative than I would like, that is 
     not the point. The question is whether Stras is qualified to 
     serve on the Eighth Circuit. And he is.

  My colleague later claimed that he was not adequately consulted by 
the White House, which would be a legitimate reason for withholding a 
blue slip, as I hope I have implied several times during my remarks 
today and before. So I looked into this by reviewing the records of 
consultation--and thank God the White House keeps pretty good records. 
It is clear the White House earnestly and repeatedly attempted to work 
with both home State Senators. The White House reached out to my 
colleague from Minnesota several times between January and May of this 
year to discuss the Eighth Circuit vacancy that Minnesota supplies a 
member for.
  It wasn't until May 2 that my colleague suggested alternatives to 
Justice Stras. That was more than 3 months after initial contact by the 
White House. Nevertheless, the White House did what they should under 
the Constitution by listening to Senators. They considered my 
colleague's two suggested nominees. I am satisfied that the White House 
adequately tried to consult with both home State Senators as the 
Constitution requires under advice and consent. Therefore, I am not 
going to deny Justice Stras a hearing.
  I would like to say a brief word about Justice Stras's supposedly 
rigid conservative views. The Judiciary Committee has received numerous 
letters attesting to Justice Stras's intellectual honesty and, probably 
more importantly, open-mindedness. It is clear that he has great 
respect for the rule of law, and his tenure on the Minnesota Supreme 
Court demonstrates that, like any good judge, he is able to put aside 
his personal views and apply the law faithfully.
  One letter, written by a bipartisan group of attorneys from Justice 
Stras's former firm, noted that they ``never doubted for a minute that 
he reached his decisions based on his well-considered view of the law, 
and not personal, political, or ideological considerations.''
  They went on to note:

       The lawyers whose names appear at the bottom of this letter 
     span the political spectrum, from Democrat to Republican, 
     liberal to conservative. We differ in our political views, 
     but we are united in our support of Justice Stras's 
     nomination to the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals.

  There are all kinds of people writing that letter--Democrats and 
Republicans, liberals and conservatives. Why is a Senator concerned 
about the justice's ideological views when people who know him well 
seem to think that is not a consideration because he is going to make a 
good judge?
  A group of former colleagues at the University of Minnesota agree. 
They wrote a letter to the committee stating:

       We are Minnesota law professors with diverse political 
     views ranging from very conservative to very progressive. 
     Some of us have appeared before Justice Stras as advocates, 
     and all of us are familiar with his academic and judicial 
     track records.

  Now as I continue the quote, I want to say to everybody, get this:

       He is no extremist, and he has approached his academic and 
     judicial work without bias or favoritism.

  This support is echoed by his colleagues in my State of Iowa. The 
committee has received several letters of support from the faculty at 
the University of Iowa College of Law where Justice Stras teaches as an 
adjunct professor. Among his supporters are the dean of the law school, 
Gail Agrawal, and Professor Sheldon Kurtz, a self-described ``life-long 
liberal.''
  Justice Stras is a widely respected jurist, and he should have a 
hearing. Ideological differences should not prevent the committee from 
moving forward.
  I would also like to address my decision to hold a hearing for Kyle 
Duncan, a nominee for the Fifth Circuit. He also has not had two 
positive blue slips returned. He is a widely respected appellate lawyer 
who has litigated over 30 cases in Federal and State appellate courts, 
including the U.S. Supreme Court.
  My friend and colleague, Senator Kennedy of Louisiana, has declined 
to return a positive blue slip. However, Senator Kennedy expressed that 
while he is undecided on Mr. Duncan's nomination, he does not oppose a 
hearing for Mr. Duncan. This seems to me to be a very sensible 
approach. It is the correct distinction that a Senator should make when 
deciding whether to return a blue slip. The blue slip is not meant to 
signify the Senator's ultimate support or opposition to the nominee. It 
only expresses a Senator's view about whether the nominee should have a 
hearing.
  Senator Feinstein made this precise distinction in 2003 for Carolyn 
Kuhl's nomination. I referred to that nomination earlier in my remarks. 
Senator Feinstein returned a blue slip which noted that she ``reserved 
judgment'' on Carolyn Kuhl. She also supported holding a hearing for 
Judge Kuhl. Ultimately, after Judge Kuhl's hearing, Senator Feinstein 
decided to oppose confirmation.
  Evidently, the hearing served a useful purpose, and Senator Feinstein 
was able to distinguish between allowing a hearing and supporting a 
nominee. Senator Kennedy has shown that he understands this distinction 
as well.
  I look forward to hearing from Justice Stras and Mr. Duncan at the 
Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on November 29.
  I think that all 100 Senators ought to look at the advice and consent 
clause. We have an opportunity to give advice to a President. We have 
an opportunity then, if that nominee comes up here, to vote for that 
nominee.

[[Page S7287]]

  Do we want to preserve the ``advice'' part of advice and consent? If 
we do, I would suggest that we look at the blue slip as a useful tool 
for accomplishing a very important part of the process. If it is 
abused--at least while I am chairman, you don't have to worry about it 
going away. But if it is abused, someday it will go away, and then all 
we are going to have, when it is all said and done, is consent.
  I yield the floor.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The majority leader.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I listened carefully to the excellent 
remarks of the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, outlining the 
history of the blue slip. I am going to say to the chairman that he has 
outlined a sensible use of the blue slip, which involves consultation 
but does not lead to a one-Senator veto of a nominee.
  I thank the chairman for the history lesson. It is a history lesson 
that the Senate needed to hear.
  I also thank the chairman for the spectacular job that he has done 
all year long with this new administration in processing and bringing 
forward highly qualified nominees. For generations to come, Americans 
who follow the third branch will be indebted to the chairman for the 
way he has handled these nominations, processed them, moved them out on 
to the floor, and given the Senate the opportunity to express its will.
  I wish every Member of the Senate had been able to hear the 
chairman's remarks, but I am certainly going to call these remarks to 
the attention of our Members every opportunity I get, and I thank the 
Senator from Iowa.
  Mr. GRASSLEY. I thank the leader.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The Senator from Nebraska.


                  National Defense Authorization Bill

  Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I rise today to speak about the National 
Defense Authorization Act. The process of negotiating the annual 
defense bill is one that has a long and important history on Capitol 
Hill.
  This afternoon, the Senate voted to pass a conference report, 
continuing a tradition of 55 consecutive years in which the National 
Defense Authorization Act has been a must-pass bill for the Congress. 
People have a habit these days of assuming that Congress cannot pass 
major legislation, but this bill is a testament to the fact that when 
it comes to supporting our men and women in uniform, we work together 
to provide them with the support they need. I am happy to say that this 
year, we are carrying on this proud tradition.
  This year's National Defense Authorization Act was passed by 
overwhelming bipartisan majorities in both the Senate and the House. As 
a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I have been proud to 
do my part to help craft this bill and to be a part of the process.
  We live in a rapidly changing world, and, unfortunately, one that 
presents a growing number of threats and challenges that our military 
must face. Across the globe, we have witnessed the rise of dangerous 
new threats that make the mission of our warfighters even more 
challenging. In Europe, Vladimir Putin has shown a complete disregard 
for international law and order and threatens key allies and 
democracies that underpin the democratic backbone of Europe. In the 
Pacific, we face a nuclear-armed dictator in North Korea who murders 
his own people while threatening mass death and destruction to the 
United States and to our allies. In the Middle East, we have witnessed 
the rapid and fearsome emergence of radical extremist groups like ISIS, 
whose barbarism shocks the world. Their horrific acts of bloodshed show 
just how dangerous this warped ideology is, and the efforts of the men 
and women in uniform have played a critical role in the fight to stem 
this dark tide.
  Unfortunately, this same ideology of radical extremism is finding new 
followers in Europe, Africa, and Asia. These threats demand that we be 
ready. The fact is that the United States has faced challenges before, 
and if one thing holds true throughout history, it is that our Armed 
Forces will be called upon to defeat the enemies of freedom and 
safeguard this Nation. For them to succeed, the Congress must provide 
the men and women in uniform the support they need to execute their 
missions. That is why I am so proud to stand before you today and speak 
about the National Defense Authorization Act.
  This legislation sends a clear message: Now is the time that we begin 
to rebuild our military. Contained in this bill is the necessary 
funding to start filling the gaps and ensuring our force remains the 
best in the world. This includes increases to the size of the Army, 
Navy, Air Force, Reserves, and our National Guard. It also means that 
new, battle-ready systems are going to get the funding they need to be 
put in the field as quickly as possible. On land, the NDAA authorizes 
funding for 85 Abrams tank upgrades and 93 Bradley fighting vehicles. 
At sea, it revitalizes our fleet, authorizing 13 new ships for our 
Navy. In the air, it provides 90 new F-35 aircraft and 53 UH-60M Black 
Hawk helicopters.
  Across all of these domains, the fiscal year 2018 NDAA authorizes 
funding for critical modernization priorities to help ensure that on 
every battlefield the men and women of America's Armed Forces have the 
resources they need to complete the missions they are given.
  I serve as chair of the Armed Services Committee's Subcommittee on 
Strategic Forces, and my top priority has been the modernization of our 
nuclear forces and the Department of Energy's nuclear weapons complex.
  This bill strongly supports nuclear modernization and makes a number 
of other key investments within the subcommittee's jurisdiction. First, 
the conference report builds on important provisions included in the 
versions that passed both the House and the Senate this year, and it 
includes the administration's request for additional missile defense 
funding, submitted earlier this month. In total, the bill authorizes an 
additional $4.4 billion above the level requested by the President when 
the budget was initially submitted to improve our missile defense 
systems. This includes a significant expansion of our Ground-based 
Midcourse Defense system and authorizes resources to begin construction 
of another 20 interceptor silos at Fort Greely, AK. To further enhance 
the system's effectiveness, the bill makes valuable investments in the 
network of radars and other sensors that support the system's 
operations. The bill also contains reasonable reforms to our military 
space enterprise that are designed to achieve a more streamlined and 
agile system that is more responsive to the needs of our warfighters.
  Furthermore, the bill improves the oversight and management of our 
nuclear command and control architecture. Often overlooked, these 
programs form the connective tissue between our national leadership and 
our nuclear forces. Their reliability and resilience are vital to the 
effectiveness of our nuclear deterrent.
  As the specter of great power conflict returns and the threat from a 
nuclear-armed North Korea continues to grow, our missile defense and 
nuclear capabilities will play an increasingly important role in 
protecting our homeland. I look forward to continuing to work with my 
colleagues to further modernize and strengthen these vital capabilities 
to ensure that we stay ahead of the threats that our Nation faces.
  Beyond the strategic forces portfolio, this bill recognizes that we 
must also rebuild our readiness and military infrastructure here at 
home, which is why we have included funding increases in the bill to 
support 90 percent of the requirements for facilities sustainment, as 
well as a significant increase for facilities restoration and 
modernization. This means newly authorized funding to restore and 
modernize facilities and infrastructure ranging from barracks and 
hospitals to runways and hangers.
  But let's not forget the most important part of our effort in 
crafting this bill, and that is providing for the one asset we can 
never replace: our soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines. The people 
who wear the uniform are more valuable than any weapons system. The 
dedication, sacrifice, and honor they exemplify every day is why we 
stand here today and enjoy the freedoms this country has to offer. For 
that reason, included in this bill is the largest pay raise for our 
troops in 8 years.
  We have also permanently preserved special survivor indemnity 
allowance

[[Page S7288]]

payments to surviving military spouses. There are more than 60,000 
Americans whose spouses have died on Active Duty or during retirement 
and, as a result of this legislation, this important payment will no 
longer exist on a year-by-year basis, but it will be preserved 
indefinitely.
  Make no mistake, these are challenging times for our Nation as the 
world is becoming an increasingly complex place. Now more than ever, we 
are asking our military to tackle difficult problems and to face 
adversaries who consistently seek new ways to do us harm.
  No matter the day, no matter the situation, America's Armed Forces 
stand ready to answer the call and protect our Nation. We need to 
uphold our solemn duty as Members of the Senate and keep faith with 
those who wear the uniform by giving them the tools they need.
  The 55-year legacy of passing the National Defense Authorization Act 
did not happen by accident. It has happened because Members of this 
body know and Members of this body recognize that this bill represents 
a promise to our servicemembers. It is a promise that, as you stand in 
harm's way, far from your families and loved ones, we stand with you. 
When you are deployed during a holiday or a special occasion, as many 
members of our own Nebraska National Guard will be this Thanksgiving, 
we stand with you. During late nights and early mornings in the cold, 
in the heat, in battle, and in peacetime, we stand with you.
  Passing the National Defense Authorization Act means keeping our end 
of the promise to those who serve. As a Member of the Senate Armed 
Services Committee, it has been my honor to play a part in helping to 
craft this year's bill, and I would like to thank our chairman, Senator 
John McCain, for his leadership in guiding the committee through the 
process. I would also like to thank America's men and women in uniform 
for all that they do to keep us safe.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. SASSE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. Without objection, it is so 
ordered.


                        American Bar Association

  Mr. SASSE. Mr. President, the consideration of Federal judges with 
lifetime appointments is perhaps the most important and long-lasting 
work this body will do between now and the end of the year.
  Every Senator--Republican and Democrat--took an oath to perform this 
duty. Nobody took an oath to outsource this duty to any outside 
organization. Unfortunately, some of my colleagues on the Senate 
Judiciary Committee are apparently willing to hand over their voting 
cards to the American Bar Association, based on the claim that the ABA 
is an unbiased, indifferent umpire that just calls balls and strikes.
  The American Bar Association is not neutral. The ABA is a liberal 
organization that has publicly and consistently advocated for left-of-
center positions for more than two decades now. The ABA has no right to 
special treatment by Members of this body.
  It is pretty simple. If you are playing in the game, you don't get to 
cherry-pick who the referees are.
  Take, for just a moment, a look at the amicus briefs they have filed 
in recent years.
  In the District of Columbia v. Heller, the ABA supported denying an 
individual their constitutional right to keep and bear arms.
  In Christian Legal Society v. Martinez, the ABA supported forcing 
Christian organizations on campuses to accept members that reject their 
faith.
  In Medellin v. Texas, the ABA supported forcing States to recognize 
the judgments of the world court in order to stop the execution of a 
gruesome murderer.
  In United States v. Windsor, the ABA supported the recognition of 
same-sex marriage through judicial fiat rather than through legislative 
debate.
  In Arizona v. United States, the ABA supported a constitutional ban 
on State and local law enforcement assisting in enforcing Federal 
immigration laws.
  The list goes on. In each of these cases, the ABA decided to weigh 
into divisive and contentious issues. This is their right, indeed, but 
it is definitely not neutral. In each of these cases, and many more, 
the ABA took what can only be described as a left-of-center position. 
In each of these cases, the ABA was picking a side.
  Again--to be clear--they are absolutely allowed to do this. It is 
what makes this country great. But it is laughably naive to suggest 
that they are an objective and neutral organization. They are not.
  The ABA cannot make liberal arguments to the nine members of the 
Supreme Court, and then walk across the street and seriously expect 
that the 100 Members of this body in the Senate will be treating them 
like unbiased appraisers. That is essentially what Attorney General 
Bill Barr said in 1992 when the ABA first began to openly take pro-
abortion positions--which, by the way, led to thousands of members 
quitting in protest because those members knew that the ABA claims to 
neutrality about political issues were no longer even possibly 
defensible.
  Then-U.S. Attorney General Bill Barr commented on the ABA's pro-
abortion advocacy at the time by saying: ``By adopting the resolution 
and thereby endorsing one side of this debate, the ABA will endanger 
the perception that it is an impartial and objective association.''
  Twenty-five years later, Barr's words were right. His words ring 
true.
  Again, I want to be perfectly clear. The ABA is allowed to have any 
view that its members want to have, and they are allowed to advocate 
and to protest on behalf of those views and on behalf of their members. 
This is America, and that is exactly what the First Amendment is about. 
That is fine. But what is not fine is that the ABA, which is a liberal 
advocacy organization, would masquerade as a neutral and objective 
evaluator of judicial candidates.
  The ABA cannot take blatantly liberal positions on the one hand, and 
then masquerade as a neutral party on the other, and then demand a 
special seat at the table in the Senate Judiciary Committee and in the 
Senate--in this body--to try to tell us who is and isn't supposedly 
qualified to be a judge.
  Just as the ABA has every right to advance its liberal policy 
positions, every Senator has the right--and indeed, the duty--to give 
our advice and consent on judicial nominees. If Senators decide that 
they like and value the ABA's policy positions and they like and value 
the ABA's rating, they are free to give them due deference and 
consideration, but don't hide behind it.
  Don't pretend that the ABA is something that it is not. Do not ignore 
the facts of what the ABA has become. The American people deserve 
honesty, not thinly veiled partisanship.
  Thank you.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The Senator from Rhode Island.


                  National Defense Authorization Bill

  Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise to discuss the fiscal year 2018 
National Defense Authorization Act.
  After several months of negotiations, the House and Senate Armed 
Services Committees have arrived at a completed conference agreement. 
Earlier today, we passed the NDAA for the 56th consecutive year.
  Let me highlight some of the important issues that we addressed in 
this agreement. This conference agreement authorizes a total of $692 
billion, which includes $626.4 billion in base budget funding for the 
Department of Defense and certain security activities of the Department 
of Energy and $65.8 billion in overseas contingency operations, or OCO, 
funding.
  Of course, we could not have done it without the cooperation of all 
the members of the committee, including the Presiding Officer, and I 
thank him for his contribution and his service.
  This includes the administration's $5.9 billion budget amendment we 
received earlier this month, which seeks an additional $4.7 billion in 
base budget funding to bolster missile defense and to repair two Navy 
ships after recent collisions, as well as $1.2 billion in OCO funding 
for operations in Afghanistan and for additional capabilities in the 
Central Command area of operations.

[[Page S7289]]

  The conference agreement includes significant increases in additional 
resources aimed at restoring full spectrum readiness, as soon as 
possible, across the military services. Specifically, operation and 
maintenance funding, widely known as the lifeblood readiness, was 
increased by $1.16 billion for the Army, $277.9 million for the Navy, 
$82.3 million for the Marine Corps, and $1 billion for the U.S. Air 
Force.
  This conference agreement supports the topline of $700 billion for 
national defense, or 050, activities, which is roughly $150 billion 
over the Budget Control Act cap. If the cap is not adjusted and if this 
amount is fully funded by the appropriators, then we would trigger the 
harmful across-the-board cuts of sequestration, just at the time when 
we are trying to restore readiness.
  I want to be clear. I agree that the DOD needs additional resources. 
But we must address the caps for both defense and nondefense 
activities.
  I remind my colleagues that under the Budget Control Act, or BCA, 
national defense activities include certain programs at the FBI and the 
Coast Guard, while nondefense activities include the State Department, 
veterans' care, Customs and Border Protection, and the TSA. We need to 
look at our Nation's needs holistically, and we must remain vigilant 
over the amount of money the DOD can effectively utilize. We have to 
look at national security, and that includes both sides and both caps
  With regard to our overseas operations, the conference report 
authorizes the entirety of the funding request for our efforts in 
Afghanistan, including $1.7 billion to invest in critical aviation 
capabilities, such as close air support platforms and modernized rotary 
wing assets, and to continue to sustain and train the existing fleet.
  The report also authorizes 3,500 special immigrant visas to continue 
to uphold our commitments to the many brave Afghans who have provided 
critical support to the U.S. mission in Afghanistan. In this regard, 
let me thank Chairman McCain and Senator Shaheen, without whose efforts 
this provision would not have been included, I believe, in the final 
conference.
  The conference report continues robust support for our 
counterterrorism efforts against ISIS, al-Qaida, and the other violent 
extremist groups, including approximately $1.8 billion for the Train 
and Equip Programs in Iraq and Syria. It also fully funds the 
Department's budget request for U.S. Special Operations Command.
  With this bill, we will enhance public transparency and congressional 
oversight of military operations and the policies that underpin them. 
Most notably, it requires a public articulation of the legal and policy 
frameworks governing the use of military force outside of declared war 
zones, as well as additional reporting on civilian casualty incidents 
and DOD efforts to prevent them.
  The conference report includes a requirement for the Secretary of 
Defense to appoint a senior official in the Department to lead an 
effort to harness and integrate all of the Department's capabilities to 
confront and defeat the kind of strategic influence operations that 
Russia has conducted against us and our allies over the last 2 years. 
It is vital that the Defense Department integrate its cyber 
capabilities with its information warfare experts to provide 
capabilities and options in time for next year's election cycle in the 
United States and to support our allies in Europe against Russian 
operations directed against them.
  Additionally, the conference report includes a requirement for the 
Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State to develop and report 
to Congress on a comprehensive, whole-of-government strategy to counter 
the Russian malign influence threat. Such a detailed strategy must 
include measures to defend against and deter Russian activities related 
to national security, including hybrid warfare, cyber attacks, and 
information operations.
  The 2018 NDAA also authorizes the Secretary of Defense to establish 
the Indo-Asia-Pacific Stability Initiative, which will be used to 
improve our posture in the Asia-Pacific region and provide additional 
resources to increase partner capacity and multilateral exercises in 
the region.
  The Chief of Naval Operations' Force Structure Assessment from last 
winter identified a goal of 355 ships, including 66 attack submarines. 
This bill makes a good downpayment on that goal by adding five ships to 
the budget, including one DDG-51 destroyer, two littoral combat ships, 
one LX(R) amphibious ship, and one expeditionary sea base.
  Perhaps not as dramatic, but no less important, is the addition of 
$698 million in the budget request to allow the Navy to begin expanding 
the submarine industrial base. Achieving the CNO's force structure goal 
will require adding 18 attack submarines to the previous force 
structure goal of 48 boats.
  This will be no small challenge since retirement of older submarines 
will exceed deliveries of new submarines. During the 10-year period of 
1991 to 2000, we ordered only four attack submarines--Connecticut, 
Jimmy Carter, Virginia, and Texas--so we have to do some catching up.
  Providing the resources for the Navy to expand the submarine 
industrial base in an orderly fashion will be a critical element of 
efficiency and a critical element in building up our fleet.
  The conference fully supports the budget requests for the 
modernization of the triad and its nuclear command and control to 
ensure we can deter existential threats to our homeland. Our triad of 
submarines, ICBMs, and bombers have been in service for decades and 
must be replaced.
  Secretary Ash Carter put the situation eloquently when he said that a 
failure to do so, in his words, ``would mean losing confidence in our 
ability to deter, which we can't afford in today's volatile security 
environment.''
  In the area of technology and acquisition, I am pleased that this 
bill shows strong support for the Department's network of labs and test 
ranges, which help drive efforts to maintain our battlefield 
technological superiority. In particular, I think this bill makes 
significant strides in enabling DOD to develop and buy the modern 
software and IT systems that are integral to every system, platform, 
and business system in the Department of Defense. Additionally, it 
reauthorizes the Defense Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive 
Research to expand the number of universities capable of working with 
the Pentagon on advanced research.
  The bill also pushes DOD to make use of advanced ``Big Data'' 
techniques to manage its business functions and processes. New ways of 
collecting, analyzing, and applying the lessons of data are 
revolutionizing the commercial world. It is time that DOD applied these 
same techniques to lower costs and save money and time.
  The conference report also includes a provision that would allow the 
Army to transfer all excess firearms no longer actively issued for 
military service to an organic facility for the purpose of melting and 
repurposing. This provision not only allows the Army to divest itself 
of these weapons, but it will also provide a steady stream of work to 
our organic foundries. These are an important part of our arsenal 
system.
  Furthermore, the provision will authorize the Secretary of the Army 
to annually designate additional excess firearms that are no longer in 
military use to be repurposed. This commonsense approach will allow the 
Army to save money on storage costs, as well as repurposing these 
excess weapons for higher priority needs identified by the Army.
  I am also pleased that the conference report builds on a markup 
amendment by Senator Nelson that directs the Department to conduct a 
threat assessment and deliver a master plan for climate change 
adaptation.
  The conference report includes House language from my colleague 
Congressman Jim Langevin that codifies several findings related to 
climate change and expresses the sense of Congress that climate change 
is a threat to our national security.
  In the area of military personnel, the conference agreement 
accomplishes much on behalf of our servicemembers and the Department of 
Defense. The bill authorizes a 2.4-percent across-the-board pay raise 
for our troops and extends authority to pay over 30 bonuses and special 
pays to encourage recruitment, retention, and continued services.

[[Page S7290]]

  It also includes authority for service Secretaries to extend by an 
additional year the time that the recruits may remain in the Delayed 
Entry Program to ensure that background checks are completed, so that 
they are not unnecessarily separated due to the fault of government. 
These are individuals who are here illegally. Their status is a result 
of their joining the MAVNI Program. If this program were terminated, we 
would lose their service to our military forces and they would be 
forced to leave the country.
  Additionally, the bill permanently extends the special survivor 
indemnity allowance under the Survivor Benefit Plan, which was due to 
expire early next year. This ensures that widows of our veterans and 
servicemembers who die of service-connected causes will continue to 
receive their monthly benefit and authorizes annual cost-of-living 
adjustments to this benefit going forward.
  With regard to military family care, the report authorizes $50 
million for impact aid, including $40 million in supplemental impact 
aid and $10 million--twice the usual amount--for military children with 
severe disabilities. For military families and for local school systems 
all across this country, this impact aid is absolutely essential. 
Furthermore, it requires the Department to improve pediatric care and 
related services for children of members of the military.
  This bill will also improve military family readiness by addressing 
the shortage of qualified childcare workers, requiring that the 
realities of military life be considered in setting the operating hours 
of childcare centers, and by increasing flexibility for families when 
the military requires them to move.
  Let me conclude by stating the obvious. The reason this bill passed 
was because of the extraordinary bipartisan leadership of Senator John 
McCain and also because of the extraordinary bipartisan leadership of 
Chairman Mac Thornberry of the House Armed Services Committee and 
Ranking Member Adam Smith. I look forward to working with them in the 
future.
  Finally, the conference agreement would not have been possible 
without the hard work of the entire committee staff, who worked 
diligently to help finalize this agreement. I thank Chris Brose, Eric 
Swabb, and all the majority committee staff for their hard work this 
past year. On the minority side, I thank my staff director, Elizabeth 
King. I also thank Gary Leeling, Creighton Greene, Carolyn Chuhta, 
Maggie McNamara, Jonathan Clark, Jonathan Epstein, Jorie Feldman, Ozge 
Guzelsu, Jody Bennett, Kirk McConnell, Bill Monahan, Mike Noblet, John 
Quirk, Arun Seraphin, and Jon Green.
  Let me state the obvious: They do the work. Sometimes we get the 
credit, but the work is theirs. I am deeply appreciative of all of 
their efforts.
  Again, let me indicate what is obvious to all our colleagues. Without 
the inspirational, practical, dynamic, and unrelenting leadership of 
Chairman McCain, we would not be at this moment today--the 56th 
consecutive passage of the National Defense Authorization Act.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Blunt). The Senator from Maine.
  Mr. KING. Mr. President, before addressing the topic that I want to 
take up--and I know it is one that is near and dear to the Presiding 
Officer's heart--which is rural healthcare, I want to express my 
admiration and thanks to Senator Reed, the Senator from Rhode Island, 
and Senator McCain for their incredible leadership of the Armed 
Services Committee. They show us what it is like to lead. They show us 
what it is like to take on difficult issues and to work out difficult 
problems, and I would like to express my appreciation to them for that.
  I see the Senator----
  Mr. SASSE. Will the Senator from Maine yield for 30 seconds?
  Mr. KING. Absolutely.
  Mr. SASSE. I would just like to associate myself with your comments, 
sir, in praising the ranking member.
  Senator Reed went through a long list of people who have gotten the 
NDAA across the finish line for more than half a century in a row.
  As a newbie rookie in this body, I have to say that serving with the 
two of you on the Armed Services Committee is a real privilege and 
honor. Much of the body doesn't work very well right now, but that 
committee works incredibly well.
  So I want to agree with the Senator from Maine that the ranking 
member is a huge part of why the Armed Services Committee works so 
well.
  Thank you, sir.
  Mr. KING. I thank the Senator.
  I say to Senator Reed, I appreciate your leadership.
  Mr. REED. I thank the Senator from Maine and the Senator from the 
great State of Nebraska.
  Mr. SASSE. I thought you were buying time.
  Mr. REED. No. Once again, we have been following Senator McCain, and 
he took us all the way. Thank you


                               Healthcare

  Mr. KING. Mr. President, I did a mathematic calculation a couple of 
years ago, and it resulted in an interesting conclusion. The Senate is 
a rural body. Eighteen Members of the U.S. Senate represent a majority 
of Americans. That means 82 percent--or 82 out of 100 Senators--
represent smaller States, more rural communities.
  Today, I want to talk about a disastrous development that is headed 
for our rural communities that we have the capability to fix, and it is 
one we should fix sooner rather than later. I am talking about Federal 
funding for federally qualified health centers, which expired on 
October 1. Seventy percent of the funding for the FQHCs expired on 
October 1. One hundred percent of the National Health Service Corps 
funding expired on October 1.
  These are vital programs that serve rural America and provide 
incredibly important healthcare services. They are an overlooked part 
of our national healthcare system, in part because they are 
traditionally in rural and outback locations.
  In Maine, we have 20 centers and 70 facilities scattered all over our 
State, and they are providing services every day to over 200,000 
people. This is a vital part of our healthcare system. Yet the funding 
expired at the end of September, and so far nothing has been done.
  How important is it? In Maine, there are 1,700 employees at these 
facilities; a total economic impact of over $300 million a year; $8 
million in State and local tax revenue and $32 million in Federal tax 
revenue. They provide $16 million worth of uncompensated care that goes 
to Maine people who need the help. They are efficient. In Maine, they 
have saved Medicaid over $100 million, and $257 million is the estimate 
for what they have saved the overall healthcare system. Again, FQHCs 
provide 1,700 jobs and support another 1,000 jobs in their communities.
  But this isn't only about economics and economic development and 
jobs; it is about healthcare. One in six people in Maine gets their 
healthcare from FQHCs--210,000 people. They accept everybody who comes 
to their door. I have been to them all over the State. They use a 
sliding-fee scale for people who are low income, who don't have 
insurance, and they provide all manner of services. It depends on the 
center; different centers have different services. They have medical, 
behavioral health, dental, substance abuse treatment and support, case 
management, optometry, podiatry, OB/GYN, prescription assistance, 
outreach and enrollment, pharmacy, radiology, and school-based 
healthcare services. These are the healthcare providers for rural 
America. And it is not only Maine; it is across the country. There are 
10,000 sites across the United States. Some 26 million patients are at 
risk.
  Well, what is the big deal? The big deal is that people are going to 
lose their healthcare services. We estimate that in Maine, we are going 
to lose about 400 clinicians and administrative and support staff who 
will have to be laid off at the beginning of the year unless we solve 
this problem in the immediate future. At least 25 of these sites will 
be forced to close, and we believe there will be almost 30,000 Maine 
residents who will lose access to their healthcare system.
  Most of the FQHCs--federally qualified health centers--are getting by 
on their funding from last year, so the expiration of the funding 
hasn't hit them yet, but it will begin to hit them on January 1. That 
is what we have to respond to.
  It is also already having an effect just by creating uncertainty. I 
got an

[[Page S7291]]

impassioned letter from the leader of one of our centers in Maine about 
the fact that they have been very diligently recruiting a dentist to 
come to their community. Dentists are very hard to come by in rural 
America. They had one who was ready to come, and then suddenly they 
heard about the uncertainty surrounding the funding--that it may or may 
not come through--and that dentist is now reconsidering their decision 
to go to this Maine community. That is a tragedy. That is a tragedy for 
the people of that town, where these services are literally not 
available.
  So what does it matter? It matters because we are talking about 
people losing their healthcare services.
  This has never been a partisan issue. I don't think there is a heck 
of a lot of debate around here about the importance of FQHCs and that 
we need to get them refunded. In fact, the Presiding Officer and 
Senator Stabenow have sponsored a bill, the CHIME Act, that would 
resolve this issue. We just need to get it on the floor and get it 
done.
  We have proved today by the passage of the National Defense 
Authorization Act that we can take major issues, bring them to the 
floor, and move them forward, especially those that aren't particularly 
controversial. But my concern is that even though there doesn't seem to 
be controversy, it is just not happening, and now our centers are 
having to make plans for layoffs, for closures, and for closing their 
doors to the people who need the care.
  This is something we can do. This is something we can resolve. It is 
within our power. The legislation is ready to go, and we should get 
this done.
  We are leaving today for the Thanksgiving holiday, but if we leave at 
the end of the year and haven't done this, it will be a tragedy for 
rural America. It will be a betrayal of rural America. It will be a 
betrayal of our constituents.
  All of us have been to these centers and seen the care that they 
provide, the caring that they provide, the passion that the people 
bring to the services in their communities, and how much they mean to 
their communities. This is one of the best Federal programs ever 
created, and it has always been supported on a bipartisan basis.
  I urge my colleagues today to prepare ourselves to get this done as 
soon as we possibly can when we get back after Thanksgiving. We have so 
much to be thankful for, and I want my people in Maine to realize that 
they can be thankful for those health centers that are literally 
lifelines in their communities and mean so much to them. I believe this 
is something we can and should and will do.
  Thank you, Mr. President, and thank you for being a leader on this 
issue.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

                          ____________________



