

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 154 (Tuesday, September 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 154 (Tuesday, September 26, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6129-S6130]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 TRIBUTE TO CATHY GLENN AND DAVE AHART

  Mr. TESTER. Mr. President, today I want to honor the service of two 
outstanding individuals who have dedicated their careers to serving the 
American people.
  Cathy Glenn and Dave Ahart have worked for nearly 30 years in the 
Senate, many of which have been behind the scenes in the Senate 
Recording Studio, ensuring that the public had access to their elected 
leaders.
  Every day, Cathy and Dave showed up to work early and sometimes 
stayed so late that they kept a cot tucked away in the corner of their 
studio.
  Together these two never missed a beat as they ran back and forth 
between soundboards, helping Senators from both parties connect with 
folks back home and communicate the latest happenings from the Nation's 
Capital.
  Cathy and Dave worked as a team. This body could certainly learn a 
thing or two from them.
  They conducted their careers with professionalism and selfless 
service,

[[Page S6130]]

going above and beyond to make our jobs easier.
  Cathy and Dave exemplify what it means to serve. While civil service 
can be a thankless profession, these two worked hard with grace and 
always with a smile on their faces.
  I can't imagine what the Senate Recording Studio will be like without 
them, but it is only fitting that Cathy and Dave ride into the sunset 
together.
  Although many of us in the Senate are sad to see them trade in their 
headphones for baseball caps and spend their afternoons watching 
``Veep'' instead of committee hearings, we wish them both the very best 
in a well-deserved retirement.
  Today I want the Record to show that Cathy Glenn and Dave Ahart made 
the Senate a better place, and I join all of the Senators and staff to 
thank them for their incredible service.

                          ____________________



