

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 199 (Wednesday, December 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 199 (Wednesday, December 6, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7895]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I have 8 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


               Committee on Environment and Public Works

  The Committee on Environment and Public Works is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, December 6, 2017, at 10 
a.m. in room SD-406 to conduct a hearing on the following nomination: 
R. D. James, of Missouri, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Army, 
Department of Defense.


        Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs

  The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, 
December 6, 2017, at 10 a.m. to conduct a hearing entitled ``Adapting 
to Defend the Homeland Against the Evolving International Terrorist 
Threat''.


                         Committee on Judiciary

  The Committee on Judiciary is authorized to meet during the session 
of the Senate on Wednesday, December 6, 2017, at 10 a.m. in room SD-226 
to conduct a hearing entitled ``Firearm Accessory Regulation and 
Enforcing Federal and State Reporting to the National Instant Criminal 
Background Check System (NCIS).''


                      Committee on Indian Affairs

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, December 6, 2017, at 2:30 p.m. in 
room SD-628 to conduct a hearing on S. 1870, ``The Securing Urgent 
Resources Vital to Indian Victim Empowerment Act''.


                      Committee on Indian Affairs

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, December 6, 2017, at 2:30 p.m. in 
room SD-628 to conduct a hearing on S. 644, ``Navajo Utah Water Rights 
Settlement Act of 2017'' and S. 1770, ``Hualapai Tribe Waters Rights 
Settlement Act of 2017''.


                       Special Committee on Aging

  The Special Committee on Aging is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, December 6, 2017, at 9:30 a.m. in 
room SD-562 to conduct a hearing entitled ``America's Aging Workforce: 
Opportunities and Challenges''.


 Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management, and Regulatory Oversight

  The Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management, and Regulatory 
Oversight of the Committee on Environment and Public Works is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, 
December 6, 2017, at 2:30 p.m. in room SD-406 to conduct a hearing 
entitled ``Challenges Facing Superfund and Waste Cleanup Efforts 
Following Natural Disasters''.


      Subcommittee on Near East, South Asia, and Counterterrorism

  The Subcommittee on Near East, South Asia, and Counterterrorism of 
the Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, December 6, 2017, at 2:30 p.m. to 
conduct a hearing entitled ``Beyond ISIS: Countering Terrorism, 
Radicalization, and Promoting Stability in North Africa.''

                          ____________________



