

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 192 (Monday, November 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 192 (Monday, November 27, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7331-S7332]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




  NATIONAL HOSPICE AND PALLIATIVE CARE MONTH AND 40TH ANNIVERSARY OF 
                             CAPITAL CARING

  Mrs. CAPITO. Mr. President, I would like to take time today to 
acknowledge that November is National Hospice and Palliative Care Month 
and to honor Capital Caring, a nonprofit hospice, on its 40th 
anniversary. In the 12 counties of the Mountain State, the organization 
is known as West Virginia Caring.
  Capital Caring, with its headquarters in Falls Church, VA, provides 
daily in-patient and home care to thousands of patients and families 
across the mid-Atlantic region--West Virginia, Virginia, Maryland, and 
the District of Columbia. Malene Davis, MBA, MSN, RN, CHPN, is 
president and CEO of Capital Caring. In 2016, she and her team offered 
hospice care to 6,980 patients and palliative care to an additional 
1,892 individuals. In addition, 1,000 people are employed by Capital 
Caring and West Virginia Caring.
  This is a year of milestones for Malene. She is currently serving as

[[Page S7332]]

chair of the West Virginia University Alumni Association's national 
board of directors. As chair, she has proven successful in encouraging 
her fellow alumni to follow her lead and expand their businesses in the 
Mountain State.
  I thank Malene and her team for all they do to make life more 
meaningful for people when they are most vulnerable. As National 
Hospice and Palliative Care Month comes to a close, I would like to 
honor all of the physicians, nurses, caregivers, and volunteers who 
provide this valuable patient service under the Medicare Hospice 
Benefit. As someone who has cared for aging parents, I understand how 
important the work they do is and how much support and comfort it 
provides to patients and their families.

                          ____________________



