

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 195 (Thursday, November 30, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 195 (Thursday, November 30, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7508]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              NORTH KOREA

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, earlier this week, North Korea tested 
what appears to be an intercontinental ballistic missile that exceeded 
the altitude and time of flight of previous missile tests. Public 
reporting is that the missile achieved an altitude of 2,800 miles and 
traversed a lofted trajectory, landing 620 miles from the launch site 
within North Korea.
  The test reminds us of the singleminded determination of Kim Jong Un 
to develop a nuclear-armed ICBM that can successfully strike the United 
States. That leaves our Nation with limited options. The first is to 
convince him that any use of a nuclear weapon will result in an 
overwhelming response, one that he will deem completely unacceptable. 
The second is to remove any missile that our intelligence community 
assesses is armed and can strike the United States or our allies. These 
are grave considerations, but they are unavoidable. As Commander in 
Chief, the President focuses on these matters on a daily basis.
  In facing these threats--whether through diplomatic negotiations, 
preparing to deter or to defeat a launch, or a significant decision to 
protect the United States preemptively--the United States needs to 
unify and rally our allies in each of these courses of action. That in 
itself is a Herculean task. What makes it considerably more challenging 
is the uncertainty surrounding our efforts to increase funding for our 
military right here at home.
  In April of this year, we as a body attended a briefing on North 
Korea at the White House. The administration has been forthcoming on 
both the urgency of the threat and their determination to face it 
through a policy of maximum pressure and preparedness.
  We have only a few weeks ahead of us to provide the Department of 
Defense with the certainty that we are responding to its funding needs 
and providing the stability in programs and resources required to 
fulfill our strategy. Each of us talks about these goals. Each of us 
talks about what we owe the All-Volunteer Force. How we work together 
in the coming days is the test of those statements.
  Certainly we can set aside partisan difference at a time when North 
Korea, Iran, Russia, and the Taliban are seeking to bully our allies 
and questioning our will and our leadership. Now is the time to come 
back to the table, meet our responsibility by providing the Defense 
Department the resources and certainty it requires, and answer those 
questioning America's resolve.

                          ____________________



