

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 144 (Thursday, September 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 144 (Thursday, September 7, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H7105-H7106]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




             COMMEMORATING THE LIFE OF KENDRA MURRAY ADAMS

  (Ms. MOORE asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend her remarks.)
  Ms. MOORE. Mr. Speaker, I rise to commemorate the life of Mrs. Kendra 
Murray Adams, a loving mother, a wife, daughter, sister, and friend to 
many, myself included.
  I first got to know Kendra when she joined my office in 2005 as an 
executive assistant. She was a blonde bombshell who was quick-witted, 
strong-willed, but just as quick to laugh with you and at you, if 
needed.
  Effortlessly funny and graciously caring, it was a joy to get to know 
her and to have a front row seat to see how this marvelous young lady 
lived life. Even now, I struggle to find the words to convey how much 
of a joy and honor it was to know Kendra and to be known by Kendra.
  Whether you knew her for years, or just got to meet her, you got the 
best

[[Page H7106]]

of her from minute one. Kendra may have left my office, but she never 
left my heart.
  Sadly, at the end of July, Kendra lost her battle with cancer at the 
tender age of 39. And although my heart is heavy, I am recalling the 
final words written by Kendra before her death, where she urged those 
who loved her to not mourn, but to ``live life, to go to the beach, go 
rock climbing, skydiving, do what you want to do.'' This exemplifies 
her spirit, her courage, and her life which, unfortunately, ended too 
soon.
  Kendra is survived by her beloved twins, her husband, her father, her 
sister, and my thoughts and prayers are with her and her family and 
friends. I loved her dearly, and I will miss her deeply and will always 
remember her.

                          ____________________



