

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 147 (Tuesday, September 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 147 (Tuesday, September 12, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S5240-S5241]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. CRUZ. Mr. President, I have 8 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


            committee on banking, housing, and urban affairs

  The Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, September 12, 2017, 
at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing entitled, ``Examining the Fintech 
Landscape.''


                          committee on finance

  The Committee on Finance is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Tuesday, September 12, 2017, at 10 a.m., in 215 Dirksen 
Senate Office Building, to conduct a hearing entitled ``Health Care: 
Issues Impacting Cost and Coverage.''


                     committee on foreign relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, September 12, 2017, at 9:30 a.m., to 
hold a hearing entitled ``Nominations.''


          committee on health, education, labor, and pensions

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is authorized 
to meet, during the session of the Senate, in order to conduct a 
hearing entitled ``Stabilizing Premiums and Helping Individuals in the 
Individual Insurance Market for 2018: State Flexibility'' on Tuesday, 
September 12, 2017, at 10 a.m., in room 430 of the Dirksen Senate 
Office Building.


        committee on homeland security and governmental affairs

  The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, 
September 12, 2017, at 10:15 a.m., in order to conduct a hearing on the 
nominations of Daniel J. Kaniewski to be Deputy Administrator for 
Protection and National Preparedness, Federal Emergency Management 
Agency, U.S. Department of Homeland Security, and Jonathan H. Pittman 
to be an Associate Judge, Superior Court of the District of Columbia.


                       committee on intelligence

  The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet 
during the session of the 115th Congress of the U.S. Senate on Tuesday, 
September 12, 2017, from 2:30 p.m., in room SH-219 of the Senate Hart 
Office Building to hold a Closed Member Roundtable.


                    subcommittee on energy oversight

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to hold a meeting during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, 
September 12, 2017, at 2:30 p.m., in room 253 of the Russell Senate 
Office Building.
  The Committee will hold Subcommittee Hearing on ``Reauthorization of 
the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act: Oversight 
of Fisheries Management Successes and Challenges.''


    committee on energy and natural resources subcommittee on energy

  The Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources' Subcommittee on 
Energy is authorized to meet during the session of the Senate in order 
to

[[Page S5241]]

hold a hearing on Tuesday, September 12, 2017, at 3 p.m., in Room 366 
of the Dirksen Senate Office Building in Washington, DC.

                          ____________________



