

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 182 (Wednesday, November 8, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 182 (Wednesday, November 8, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7107]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

              RECOGNIZING THE UNION LEAGUE CLUB OF CHICAGO

 Ms. DUCKWORTH. Mr. President, today I wish to celebrate the 
Union League Club of Chicago ULCC, and their Salute to Vietnam Veterans 
event.
  As a Nation, we must do everything we can to uphold our commitment to 
those who have worn the uniform of this great Nation and to their 
families who have made significant sacrifices on our behalf. On 
Veterans Day we honor the service of our Nation's heroes and reflect on 
the debt that we each owe to those who have served this great Nation.
  Founded during the Civil War, ULCC has been a leader in providing 
support for servicemembers and veterans for over 138 years. ULCC, an 
official DoD Commemorative Partner, operates its own American Legion 
Posts and collaborates with partner groups that provide support to 
Active-Duty military personnel. ULCC recognizes that, while 
servicemembers may come from different backgrounds and different 
branches, they all hold the same sense of duty and commitment and 
deserve our full support.
  As the daughter of a U.S. marine who fought in Vietnam, our Vietnam 
veterans hold a special place in my heart. I often say that we must 
always love the warrior regardless of our feelings about the war. Let 
us recommit our obligation to Vietnam veterans by ensuring that they 
have the healthcare, disability support, retirement benefits, and any 
other resources they have earned.
  To all of my fellow veterans, to those still serving, and to all the 
families that have sacrificed, thank you from the bottom of my heart 
for your honorable service.
  Thank you.

                          ____________________



