

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 171 (Tuesday, October 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 171 (Tuesday, October 24, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6772]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I have 6 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


            committee on banking, housing and urban affairs

  The Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, October 24, 2017, at 
10 a.m., to conduct a hearing on the following nominations: David J. 
Ryder, of New Jersey, to be Director of the United States Mint, 
Department of the Treasury, and Hester Maria Peirce, of Ohio, and 
Robert J. Jackson, Jr., of New York, both to be a Member of the 
Securities and Exchange Commission.


                          committee on finance

  The Committee on Finance is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Tuesday, October 24, 2017, at 10 a.m., in room SD-215 to 
consider nominations.


                          committee on finance

  The Committee on Finance is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Tuesday, October 24, 2017, at 10 a.m., in room SD-215 to 
consider nominations of: Kevin K. McAleenan, of Hawaii, to be 
Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of 
Homeland Security.


                     committee on foreign relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, October 24, 2017, at 10 a.m., to hold 
a hearing entitled ``Assessing U.S. Policy towards Burma: Geopolitical, 
Economic, and Humanitarian Considerations.''


                    select committee on intelligence

  The Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, October 24, 2017, at 2:30 p.m., in 
room SH-219 to conduct a closed hearing.


     subcommittee on oceans, atmosphere, fisheries, and coast guard

  The Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and Coast Guard of 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, October 24, 2017, at 
2:30 p.m., in room SR-253 to conduct a hearing entitled 
``Reauthorization of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and 
Management Act: Fisheries Science''.

                          ____________________



