

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 201 (Monday, December 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 201 (Monday, December 11, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9780]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1915
                  RECOGNIZING SERGEANT VINCENT SCALISE

  (Ms. TENNEY asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend her remarks.)
  Ms. TENNEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Sergeant Vincent 
Scalise, the founder of the Central New York Veterans Outreach Center 
in Utica, New York.
  Sergeant Scalise has served our Nation in the Army National Guard for 
over 19 years and was deployed to Afghanistan and Iraq with the 2nd 
Battalion, 108th Infantry. Sergeant Scalise has also responded to 
multiple natural disasters and homeland security missions, and was 
awarded the New York National Guard's Colonel Gouverneur Morris 
Citizen/Soldier Award.
  In 2008, Sergeant Scalise saw an opportunity in the vacant YMCA 
building in downtown Utica for a veterans outreach center to serve 
veterans and their families in times of need. His vision and hard work 
has created a safe and welcoming refuge for veterans and their 
families.
  Currently, the Central New York Veterans Outreach Center administers 
a Federal grant to aid veterans in danger of becoming homeless, and it 
has a food pantry onsite for veterans and their families, among a 
variety of other services. Work has begun to construct 18 onsite 
housing units, and the center has been awarded its fourth consecutive 
Federal veteran homeless prevention grant.
  I commend Sergeant Scalise for his dedicated service to our country, 
community, and fellow veterans, and I wish the center many more years 
of growth and success.

                          ____________________



