

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 177 (Wednesday, November 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 177 (Wednesday, November 1, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H8308]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       THE STORY OF JUAN NAVARRO

  (Mr. SCHRADER asked and was given permission to address the House for 
1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. SCHRADER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to share the story of Juan 
Navarro in Monmouth, Oregon, and to continue to urge Speaker Ryan to 
put forth a clean Dream Act bill.
  Juan was brought to the United States, when he was 3 years old, from 
Guadalajara, Mexico. Juan suffers from cerebral palsy and was unable to 
walk. Juan was admitted as a research patient in Shriners Hospital, and 
after multiple surgeries and 12 long years of physical therapy, Juan 
now is able to walk without any support.
  While Juan was receiving care, his parents had to work two jobs, 
something we all used to do. They did this to provide a better life for 
Juan.
  Over time, Juan excelled in school, and Oregon became his home.
  Juan is an active member in the Monmouth and Western Oregon 
University communities. He serves as a diversity student mentor, works 
with the faculty at Western Oregon to create a campus website that 
lists available resources for undocumented students, works for the city 
of Monmouth as a community liaison, and started a support group for 
DREAMers at Western Oregon University.
  Juan is the first person in his family to graduate from college and 
is currently attending graduate school at Oregon State University's 
College Student Services Administration program. He currently works as 
a graduate assistant and hopes to bring more institutional changes for 
students of color.
  Without DACA, none of this would have been possible for Juan, and our 
country would have lost out on a motivated and talented person.
  Young people across the country are relying on us. We need to pass a 
clean Dream Act that will recognize Juan and the over 800,000 DREAMers 
as equal members of our community.

                          ____________________



