

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 173 (Thursday, October 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 173 (Thursday, October 26, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6854-S6855]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 108

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Connecticut 
(Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 108, a bill to amend 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the excise tax on medical 
devices.


                                 S. 422

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from New 
York (Mr. Schumer) was added as a cosponsor of S. 422, a bill to amend 
title 38, United States Code, to clarify presumptions relating to the 
exposure of certain veterans who served in the vicinity of the Republic 
of Vietnam, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 514

  At the request of Mr. Perdue, the name of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Roberts) was added as a cosponsor of S. 514, a bill to direct the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to carry out a pilot program to provide 
access to magnetic EEG/EKG-guided resonance therapy to veterans.


                                 S. 796

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 796, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to extend the exclusion for 
employer-provided education assistance to employer payments of student 
loans.


                                 S. 808

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 808, a bill to provide 
protections for certain sports medicine professionals who provide 
certain medical services in a secondary State.


                                 S. 818

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from Maine (Ms. 
Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. 818, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow individuals with disabilities to 
save additional amounts in their ABLE accounts above the current annual 
maximum contribution if they work and earn income.


                                 S. 872

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Iowa 
(Mrs. Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of S. 872, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to make permanent the extension of the 
Medicare-dependent hospital (MDH) program and the increased payments 
under the Medicare low-volume hospital program.


                                S. 1027

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1027, a bill to extend the 
Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act of 2000.


                                S. 1412

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the name of the Senator from 
Maryland (Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1412, a bill to 
amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 to provide for a percentage of 
student loan forgiveness for public service employment, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1582

  At the request of Mr. Van Hollen, the name of the Senator from New 
York (Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1582, a bill to 
establish the Frederick Douglass Bicentennial Commission.


                                S. 1774

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Barrasso) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1774, a bill to provide 
protections for workers with respect to their right to select or 
refrain from selecting representation by a labor organization.


                                S. 1850

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the name of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Tillis) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1850, a bill to 
amend the Public Health Service Act to protect the confidentiality of 
substance use disorder patient records.


                                S. 1871

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mr. 
Grassley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1871, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to clarify the role of podiatrists in the 
Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1967

  At the request of Mr. Cotton, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mr. Blunt) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1967, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide additional exemptions to the 
individual mandate, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2004

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the names of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) and the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. 
Murphy) were added as cosponsors of S. 2004, a bill to increase funding 
for the State response to the opioid misuse crisis and to provide 
funding for research on addiction and pain related to the substance 
misuse crisis.


                              S. RES. 279

  At the request of Mr. McCain, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 279, a resolution 
reaffirming the commitment of the United States to promote democracy, 
human rights, and the rule of law in Cambodia.


                              S. RES. 291

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 291, a resolution 
affirming the historical connection of the Jewish people to the ancient 
and sacred city of Jerusalem and condemning efforts at the United 
Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) to 
deny Judaism's millennia-old historical, religious, and cultural ties 
to Jerusalem.

[[Page S6855]]

  

                          ____________________



