

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 132 (Thursday, August 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 132 (Thursday, August 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S4826]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      TRIBUTE TO GEORGE S. HAERLE

 Mr. YOUNG. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize, with the 
highest respect, the service and life of George Shepard Haerle for his 
dedication to serving Indiana and the Nora Community Council, NCC. Over 
the course of NCC's 50-year history, George has volunteered 47 years of 
his own to leave an indelible mark on the Nora community. The great 
State of Indiana is proud of and ever thankful for George's 
distinguished commitment and exemplary service.
  Since its founding, the Nora Community Council has covered 12 square 
miles with 25,000 to 28,000 Hoosier residents, including 60 local 
neighborhoods under the civic umbrella. As a chairman of the NCC, 
George commits hundreds of hours each year to promote growth, 
development, and the general welfare of the Nora community.
  George Haerle's renowned service was rightfully recognized on July 
29, 2017, when Governor Eric Holcomb bestowed upon him Indiana's most 
prestigious designation, a Sagamore of the Wabash. George follows in 
the footsteps of his father, Rudolf K. Haerle, who was also recognized 
as a Sagamore of the Wabash for his contributions to the State as the 
first president of the Civil War Round Table and a former longtime 
member of the Library Board of the Indiana Historical Society.
  George has not only been a role model for the NCC, but he has also 
been an outstanding advocate for the community of Nora-Northside. His 
remarkable service is exceeded only by his devotion to his amazing 
family, including 7 daughters, 1 son, and 18 grandchildren. On behalf 
of myself and all Hoosiers, for his selfless and lifelong commitment, 
George is worthy of the highest praise. I feel truly privileged to have 
him as a fellow and lifelong Hoosier.

                          ____________________



