

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 181 (Tuesday, November 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 181 (Tuesday, November 7, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7059-S7060]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         TRIBUTE TO RONNIE LUPE

 Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I would like to pay tribute to 
Ronnie Lupe, a foreign war veteran and current chairman of the White 
Mountain Apache Tribe in Arizona. Chairman Lupe will be retiring next 
year following 50 years of distinguished public service to his Tribe.
  Ronnie also honorably served his Nation overseas in Korea. As a young 
man, he journeyed far from his hometown of Cibecue to enlist in the 
U.S. Marine Corps. He soon found himself across the Pacific and 
entrenched in combat. Thankfully, Ronnie returned home safely to his 
family and friends.
  Ronnie first joined the Tribal council in 1996. Since then, he has 
served as chairman of the council for a remarkable nine terms. I have 
enjoyed working closely with Chairman Lupe over the years. Ronnie is a 
tireless advocate for the principles of Tribal self-governance and 
Indian self-determination. He led efforts to resolve the Tribe's water 
rights claims and developed a reservation-wide system for clean 
drinking water.
  Ronnie was also a pioneer in Federal Indian policy concerning 
wildlife conservation, expanding Tribal control over reservation land, 
its forest, and natural resources. He oversaw the Tribe's response and 
recovery in the Rodeo-Chediski Fire in 2002 and the Wallow Fire in 
2011--the two worst wildfires in Arizona history. As chairman, he 
labored to build and nurture Tribal enterprises like Hon Dah Casino and 
Sunrise Park Resort, which today are hubs of tourism and recreation in 
the White Mountains of Arizona.
  Chairman Ronnie Lupe is a celebrated Tribal leader who brought about 
transformative and lasting changes to the people of the White Mountain 
Apache Tribe. I am proud to call him my friend. I thank him for his 
service.

[[Page S7060]]

  

                          ____________________



