

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 188 (Thursday, November 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 188 (Thursday, November 16, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7294]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         TRIBUTE TO RAY HAGEMAN

 Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this week I have the distinct honor 
of recognizing Garfield County's fire warden, Ray Hageman, for his 
actions to organize and coordinate the local response to the Lodgepole 
Complex fire. Ray and his team worked to preserve the lives and 
livelihoods that were threatened by this devastating fire. Their 
actions exemplify the resolute character of the Treasure State.
  The Lodgepole Complex fire was one of the largest fires of the 2017 
wildfire season. When first responders finally defeated the flames, 
well over a quarter million acres of land had burned. Ray was on the 
frontlines of this rural fire, orchestrating the distribution of local 
equipment, coordinating effective initial response techniques, and 
helping to integrate the efforts of partner firefighting organizations 
from outside the county.
  Effective local leaders like Ray are supported by the committed team 
members they lead, team members like Garfield County's Anne Miller, who 
was the public information officer for the Lodgepole Complex fire. Anne 
worked around-the-clock at the beginning of the fire to build a common 
understanding of a changing fire environment. By enabling open and 
clear lines of communication, she strengthened the team's fire response 
efforts and saved many Montanans from potential loss of property and 
life.
  Ray and his team weathered one of the largest wildfires in the 
Nation. Their courage in the face of adversity serves as an inspiration 
to all Montanans. Thank you, Ray, for leading under such difficult 
circumstances and working hard to protect Montanans from 
wildfires.

                          ____________________



