

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 132 (Thursday, August 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 132 (Thursday, August 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4824-S4825]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     TRIBUTE TO SPENCER M. HOULDIN

  Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize Spencer 
M. Houldin of Roxbury, CT, as he nears the end of his term as the 112th 
chairman of the Independent Insurance Agents & Brokers of America, also 
known as the Big I. Spencer was installed as chairman of the Big I in 
September 2016, becoming the youngest person to serve as chairman in 
the association's 120-year history. Throughout his term, even when he 
and I disagreed, Spencer was always a thoughtful and dedicated advocate 
for independent insurance agents.
  Prior to becoming the chairman, Spencer often served as a leader in 
the independent agency system. He chaired the Big I national Government 
Affairs Committee in 2009 and served as the president of the 
Connecticut Big I association in 2004. In these leadership positions, 
Spencer consistently promoted an environment where independent agents, 
in both Connecticut and across the country, could both thrive in their 
business and represent their customers with the highest quality of 
care.
  Spencer has consistently served his community in Connecticut. He 
resides in Roxbury, CT, with his wife, Carol, and two sons, Chandler 
and Carter. Spencer is president of Ericson Insurance Services in 
Washington Depot, CT, where he has 25 years of experience as a personal 
insurance advisor, working alongside his brother Peter. He currently 
sits on the board of the Western Connecticut Health Network, which is 
comprised of Danbury Hospital, Norwalk Hospital, and New Milford 
Hospital. He has been involved with the health network in various 
capacities over the past 20 years. He recently cochaired a $72 million 
capital campaign for Danbury and New Milford Hospitals. In July 2017, 
Litchfield Magazine named Spencer one of Litchfield County, 
Connecticut's 25 most influential people.
  Today, I am pleased to join Spencer's colleagues from across 
Connecticut and

[[Page S4825]]

the Nation in congratulating him as he finishes his term as chairman of 
the Big I.

                          ____________________



