

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 177 (Wednesday, November 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 177 (Wednesday, November 1, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6966]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                RECOGNIZING WHITE LICK ELEMENTARY SCHOOL

  Mr. DONNELLY. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize White Lick 
Elementary School of Brownsburg, IN, for being named a 2017 National 
Blue Ribbon School by the U.S. Department of Education.
  Established in 1982, the National Blue Ribbon Schools Program 
recognizes schools that have demonstrated a vision of educational 
excellence for all students, regardless of their social or economic 
background. Since its inception, this program has allowed schools in 
every State to gain recognition for educational accomplishments, 
particularly in closing the achievement gaps among students.
  White Lick Elementary School currently serves over 600 students and 
offers a variety of education and extracurricular opportunities for its 
students.
  White Lick Elementary School has been effective in tailoring its 
curriculum to the educational needs of each individual student. As part 
of its commitment to students, the school provides programs like 
Learning Lab, which offers students struggling academically extra 
support in reading and math in a small-group setting every day for 30 
minutes.
  The school also prides itself on the professional development of its 
staff. Teachers are given the chance to learn and grow through weekly 
meetings with their professional learning communities. In these 
meetings, teachers come together to analyze test scores and other data 
as they discuss how to better meet the needs of their students.
  The school's investment in students is reflected in the diverse 
opportunities it offers. Whether it is through the ``Step-a-thon,'' 
where students participate in a physical challenge to help raise funds 
for various school programs or the numerous afterschool clubs, White 
Lick has excelled in offering resources and programs beyond the 
classroom.
  I am proud to recognize White Lick Elementary School principal Susan 
Wise, the entire staff, the student body, the parents, and the entire 
Brownsburg community. The effort, dedication, and value you put into 
education has led not only to this prestigious recognition but will 
benefit your students and Indiana well into the future.
  On behalf of the citizens of Indiana, I congratulate White Lick 
Elementary School, and I wish the students and staff continued success 
in the future.

                          ____________________



