

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 148 (Wednesday, September 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 148 (Wednesday, September 13, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H7334-H7378]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




     DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, ENVIRONMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES 
                        APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2018

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to House Resolution 504 and rule 
XVIII, the Chair declares the House in the Committee of the Whole House 
on the state of the Union for the further consideration of the bill, 
H.R. 3354.
  Will the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. Hultgren) kindly resume the 
chair.

                              {time}  1336


                     In the Committee of the Whole

  Accordingly, the House resolved itself into the Committee of the 
Whole House on the state of the Union for the further consideration of 
the bill (H.R. 3354) making appropriations for the Department of the 
Interior, environment, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2018, and for other purposes, with Mr. Hultgren (Acting 
Chair) in the chair.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The Acting CHAIR. When the Committee of the Whole rose on Tuesday, 
September 12, 2017, a request for a recorded vote on amendment No. 187 
printed in House Report 115-297, offered by the gentleman from Ohio 
(Mr. Gibbs), had been postponed.


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, proceedings 
will now resume on those amendments printed in House Report 115-297 on 
which further proceedings were postponed, in the following order:
  Amendment No. 73 by Mr. Mullin of Oklahoma.
  Amendment No. 74 by Mr. Mullin of Oklahoma.
  Amendment No. 75 by Mr. Polis of Colorado.
  Amendment No. 76 by Mr. Polis of Colorado.
  Amendment No. 77 by Mr. Norman of South Carolina.
  The Chair will reduce to 2 minutes the time for any electronic vote 
in this series.


                 Amendment No. 73 Offered by Mr. Mullin

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Mullin) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which 
the ayes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 218, 
noes 195, not voting 20, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 488]

                               AYES--218

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Cuellar
     Culberson
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Ferguson
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry

[[Page H7335]]


     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jones
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     LoBiondo
     Long
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     MacArthur
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Norman
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Peterson
     Pittenger
     Poliquin
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Roskam
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tipton
     Trott
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                               NOES--195

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costello (PA)
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cummings
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DelBene
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Faso
     Fitzpatrick
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gomez
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Kaptur
     Katko
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     Knight
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Mast
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meehan
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Reichert
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sanford
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Stefanik
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth

                             NOT VOTING--20

     Bridenstine
     Castor (FL)
     Clyburn
     Costa
     Curbelo (FL)
     DeLauro
     Diaz-Balart
     Garrett
     Graves (MO)
     Lawson (FL)
     Loudermilk
     McEachin
     Poe (TX)
     Posey
     Rooney, Francis
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Tiberi
     Watson Coleman


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1341

  So the amendment was agreed to.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded


                 Amendment No. 74 Offered by Mr. Mullin

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Mullin) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which 
the ayes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 225, 
noes 186, not voting 22, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 489]

                               AYES--225

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Cuellar
     Culberson
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Ferguson
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Green, Gene
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jones
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Katko
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     LoBiondo
     Long
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     MacArthur
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Meehan
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Norman
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Peterson
     Pittenger
     Poliquin
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Roskam
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tipton
     Trott
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                               NOES--186

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Bergman
     Beyer
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costello (PA)
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cummings
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DelBene
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Faso
     Fitzpatrick
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gomez
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Huffman
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Kaptur
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Rice (NY)

[[Page H7336]]


     Richmond
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Stefanik
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth

                             NOT VOTING--22

     Bishop (GA)
     Bridenstine
     Castor (FL)
     Clyburn
     Costa
     Curbelo (FL)
     DeLauro
     Diaz-Balart
     Garrett
     Graves (MO)
     Hoyer
     Lawson (FL)
     Loudermilk
     McEachin
     Poe (TX)
     Posey
     Rooney, Francis
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Tiberi
     Watson Coleman


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1345

  So the amendment was agreed to.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


                 Amendment No. 75 Offered by Mr. Polis

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Colorado 
(Mr. Polis) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which 
the noes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 201, 
noes 212, not voting 20, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 490]

                               AYES--201

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Cohen
     Conaway
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costello (PA)
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Cummings
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DelBene
     Demings
     Dent
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Fitzpatrick
     Fortenberry
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Kaptur
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Lance
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     MacArthur
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Mast
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meehan
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Poliquin
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sanford
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Stefanik
     Stivers
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Tipton
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Upton
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth

                               NOES--212

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Cook
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Denham
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jones
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Katko
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     Long
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Norman
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pittenger
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Roskam
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Schrader
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stewart
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Trott
     Turner
     Valadao
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                             NOT VOTING--20

     Bridenstine
     Castor (FL)
     Clyburn
     Costa
     Curbelo (FL)
     DeLauro
     Diaz-Balart
     Garrett
     Graves (MO)
     Lawson (FL)
     Loudermilk
     McEachin
     Poe (TX)
     Posey
     Rooney, Francis
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Tiberi
     Watson Coleman


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1351

  Messrs. RICHMOND, TAKANO, NOLAN, and TIPTON changed their votes from 
``no'' to ``aye.''
  So the amendment was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


                 Amendment No. 76 Offered by Mr. Polis

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Colorado 
(Mr. Polis) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which 
the noes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 198, 
noes 212, not voting 23, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 491]

                               AYES--198

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brooks (IN)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costello (PA)
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Cummings
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DelBene
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Dunn
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Fitzpatrick
     Fortenberry
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gianforte
     Gomez
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Jones
     Kaptur
     Katko
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer

[[Page H7337]]


     Kind
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Lance
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meehan
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Simpson
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Stefanik
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Tipton
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth

                               NOES--212

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Conaway
     Cook
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Emmer
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     LoBiondo
     Long
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     MacArthur
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Norman
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Peterson
     Pittenger
     Poliquin
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Roskam
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Trott
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                             NOT VOTING--23

     Bridenstine
     Castor (FL)
     Clyburn
     Comstock
     Costa
     Curbelo (FL)
     DeLauro
     Diaz-Balart
     Garrett
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Graves (MO)
     Hudson
     Lawson (FL)
     Loudermilk
     McEachin
     Poe (TX)
     Posey
     Rooney, Francis
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Tiberi
     Watson Coleman


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1354

  So the amendment was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
  Stated against:
  Mr. HUDSON. Mr. Chair, I was unavoidably detained and missed a vote. 
Had I been present, I would have voted ``nay'' on rollcall No. 491.


                 Amendment No. 77 Offered by Mr. Norman

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from South 
Carolina (Mr. Norman) on which further proceedings were postponed and 
on which the noes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 151, 
noes 260, not voting 22, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 492]

                               AYES--151

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Arrington
     Babin
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Brat
     Buck
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Collins (GA)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Davidson
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Ferguson
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jones
     Jordan
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     Kinzinger
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     Long
     Love
     Luetkemeyer
     Marchant
     Marshall
     Massie
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     Meadows
     Messer
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Norman
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Perry
     Peterson
     Pittenger
     Ratcliffe
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shuster
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (TX)
     Stewart
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thornberry
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                               NOES--260

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Amodei
     Bacon
     Barragan
     Barton
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Bergman
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Bishop (MI)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Bost
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brady (TX)
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Buchanan
     Bucshon
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Calvert
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Coffman
     Cohen
     Cole
     Collins (NY)
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cook
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costello (PA)
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Cummings
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     Davis, Rodney
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DelBene
     Demings
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Donovan
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Faso
     Fitzpatrick
     Fortenberry
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Frelinghuysen
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gianforte
     Gomez
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Herrera Beutler
     Higgins (NY)
     Hill
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Joyce (OH)
     Kaptur
     Katko
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     King (NY)
     Knight
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Lance
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lucas
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     MacArthur
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Marino
     Mast
     Matsui
     McCarthy
     McCollum
     McGovern
     McNerney
     McSally
     Meehan
     Meeks
     Meng
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Murphy (PA)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     Nunes
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Paulsen
     Payne
     Pearce
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Poliquin
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Reed
     Reichert
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Rosen
     Roskam
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Rutherford
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Shimkus
     Simpson
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (WA)

[[Page H7338]]


     Smucker
     Soto
     Speier
     Stefanik
     Stivers
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Thompson (PA)
     Tipton
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Trott
     Tsongas
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walden
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Webster (FL)
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Woodall
     Yarmuth

                             NOT VOTING--22

     Bridenstine
     Castor (FL)
     Clyburn
     Costa
     Curbelo (FL)
     DeLauro
     Diaz-Balart
     Garrett
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Graves (MO)
     LaHood
     Lawson (FL)
     Loudermilk
     McEachin
     Poe (TX)
     Posey
     Rooney, Francis
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Tiberi
     Watson Coleman


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1358

  So the amendment was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
  Stated for:
  Mr. ROKITA. Mr. Chair, I mistakenly cast a ``no'' vote on rollcall 
vote 492. While I am counted as a ``no'' vote, I intended to vote 
``yes'' on the amendment.


 Vacating Demand for Recorded Vote on Amendment No. 175 Offered By Mr. 
                         Murphy of Pennsylvania

  Mr. COLE. Mr. Chairman, I ask unanimous consent to withdraw my 
request for a recorded vote on amendment No. 175 printed in House 
Report 115-297 to the end that the Chair put the question de novo.
  The Acting CHAIR (Mr. McClintock). The Clerk will redesignate the 
amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. Is there objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Oklahoma?
  There was no objection.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Murphy).
  The amendment was agreed to.


 Vacating Demand for Recorded Vote on Amendment No. 176 Offered by Mr. 
                         Murphy of Pennsylvania

  Mr. COLE. Mr. Chairman, I ask unanimous consent to withdraw my 
request for a recorded vote on amendment No. 176 printed in House 
Report 115-297 to the end that the Chair put the question de novo.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. Is there objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Oklahoma?
  There was no objection.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Murphy).
  The amendment was agreed to.


       Amendments En Bloc No. 5 Offered by Mr. Graves of Georgia

  Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, pursuant to section 3 of House 
Resolution 504, and as the designee of Chairman Frelinghuysen, I rise 
to offer en bloc No. 5 as part of the consideration of division D of 
H.R. 3354. The list of amendments included in the en bloc is at the 
desk and has been agreed to by both sides.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendments en bloc.
  Amendments en bloc No. 5 consisting of amendment Nos. 194, 197, 202, 
209, 210, 214, 215, 216, 217, 219, 220, and 224 printed in House Report 
115-297, offered by Mr. Graves of Georgia:


        Amendment No. 194 Offered by Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire

       Page 383, line 18, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $874,000)''.
       Page 385, line 22, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $6,028,000)''.
       Page 421, line 4, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $6,902,000)''.
       Page 424, line 6, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $6,902,000)''.
       Page 424, line 8, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $6,902,000)''.


          Amendment No. 197 Offered by Mrs. Murphy of Florida

       Page 443, line 5, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $1,000,000)''.
       Page 447, line 13, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $1,000,000)''.


            Amendment No. 202 Offered by Mr. Soto of Florida

       Page 360, line 4, insert ``(increased by $1,000,000)'' 
     before ``shall''.


      Amendment No. 209 Offered by Mr. Cartwright of Pennsylvania

       At the end of division D (before the short title), insert 
     the following:
       Sec. 1104.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may 
     be used to plan for, begin, continue, complete, process, or 
     approve a public-private competition under the Office of 
     Management and Budget Circular A-76.


         Amendment No. 210 Offered by Mr. Kustoff of Tennessee

       Page 384, line 6, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $10,000,000)''.
       Page 421, line 4, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $10,000,000)''.
       Page 424, line 4, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $10,000,000)''.


         Amendment No. 214 Offered by Mr. Schneider of Illinois

       Page 348, line 18, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $2,000,000)''.
       Page 443, line 5, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $2,000,000)''.
       Page 447, line 13, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $4,000,000)''.


        Amendment No. 215 Offered by Mr. Courtney of Connecticut

       Page 361, line 17, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000)''.


 Amendment No. 216 Offered by Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico

       Page 446, line 17, after the first dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $5,000,000)''.
       Page 447, line 13, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $5,000,000)''.


         Amendment No. 217 Offered by Mrs. Comstock of Virginia

       Page 384, line 6, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $5,000,000)''.
       Page 421, line 4, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $5,000,000)''.
       Page 424, line 4, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $5,000,000)''.


         Amendment No. 219 Offered by Mr. Denham of California

       Page 428, line 24, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $1,000,000)''.
       Page 443, line 5, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $1,000,000)''.


           Amendment No. 220 Offered by Ms. Gabbard of Hawaii

       Page 356, line 21, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $1,000,000)''.
       Page 358, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $1,000,000)''.
       Page 428, line 24, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $1,000,000)''.


         Amendment No. 224 Offered by Ms. Velazquez of New York

       Page 348, line 18, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $3,000,000)''.
       Page 394, line 2, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $5,000,000)''.
       Page 426, line 17, after the first dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $2,000,000)''.
       Page 426, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $2,000,000)''.
       Page 447, line 13, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $10,000,000)''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 504, the gentleman 
from Georgia (Mr. Graves) and the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. Quigley) 
each will control 10 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Georgia.
  Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.
  From the beginning here, let me just thank the ranking member, Mr. 
Quigley, for his good work over the last several months as we have 
worked together as a team to try to come up with a product that 
everyone would be pleased with, and also Mrs. Lowey, the ranking 
member, as well.
  But I have to give credit to our leadership. They have decided to go 
big this year. They have had faith in Chairman Frelinghuysen and our 
committee members just to get the job done. By the end of this week, 
this House will be the first Republican majority since 2004 to pass all 
12 appropriations bills on time.
  Now, this bill is certainly true to its name and it is also true to 
our principles. We make America safe by funding our military and 
securing our borders. We are making America prosperous by restoring 
financial freedom so all Americans can earn a living and achieve their 
own dreams.
  Now I will say something obvious, Mr. Chairman. America entrusted our 
party with the White House and both Houses of Congress in this last 
election. Take a look at this package. These are policies that we have 
been elected to pass. This is the U.S. House saying: We hear you, and 
we are with you, and we are going to get the job done.
  So I want to thank Chairman Frelinghuysen and the subcommittee 
chairs--all have worked hard over the last several months--and their 
committee staff for going big and getting this package to the floor as 
we finish it up here this evening.
  It is also important to thank my subcommittee and their personal 
staff as well. I want to thank them for the many hours of work, the 
weekends, the late nights and the holidays that have

[[Page H7339]]

brought us to this moment. I want to thank our clerk, Dena Baron; and 
Marybeth and Ariana; Brad Allen, who is in our Financial Services 
Office; and until a few days ago, when a great opportunity took her 
away from us, Kelly Hitchcock, who has been in our office as well.
  And then, of course, my personal office, we have John Donnelly, Jason 
Murphy, and Sam Mahler, who have worked very diligently, Mr. Chairman, 
to bring us to this point on this evening.
  I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  I rise in support of this amendment. I appreciate the chairman's 
inclusion of amendments from Democratic Members. I am particularly 
pleased to see amendments increasing funds for small-business programs 
that support investments directly into our communities.
  Specifically, this amendment boosts funding by a total of $20 million 
for entrepreneurial development grants. In addition, this package 
provides increased funding for the Tax Counseling for the Elderly 
program at the IRS, ensuring that more elderly taxpayers receive 
efficient and quality tax assistance. It also boosts funding for the 
Community Development Financial Institution Fund for Native Communities 
programs.
  Another especially effective and much-needed program in this bill is 
the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Act. This amendment provides an 
additional $15 million to the amount provided in the underlying bill.
  The Drug-Free Communities program, also critically important, 
benefits from a funding increase.
  These are Federal investments that matter, and I support them all.
  I would be remiss, however, if I did not point out that some of the 
offsets relied upon in this en bloc give me pause. Due to the 
irresponsibly low funding level allocated in the Financial Services 
bill, it is, frankly, not possible to find pay-fors that will not cause 
damage elsewhere in the bill. So I look forward to working with my 
colleagues to find a way to increase the total resources available for 
this bill as we move forward in the process.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the 
gentleman from California (Mr. Denham), who has worked hard on this 
amendment and has a portion of the amendment he would like to discuss.
  Mr. DENHAM. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of this en bloc package 
which includes my amendments to the Financial Services division of this 
bill.
  Mr. Chair, my amendment supports the efficient implementation of the 
Federal Assets Sale and Transfer Act. This is the act that I authored 
that was signed into law last year that simply puts in place a board to 
manage, to liquidate, to identify unneeded and vacant properties.
  There is an opportunity we have today to sell off the things that we 
don't need: properties that have been sitting vacant for years, 
properties that are costing us millions and millions and billions 
across the country. There is an opportunity for us not only to sell 
these off and bring in the much-needed revenue to start building roads, 
bridges, and put towards our infrastructure package, but also to get 
them redeveloped, rebuilding communities and putting people back to 
work.
  Now, what we need right now is to get this board put into place, and 
congressional leadership will make recommendations to the President on 
their board. We need the Senate to confirm the chairperson of the 
board, and, finally, we need an executive director and a staff to help 
vet these high-value properties and push the reluctant agencies that 
don't want to get rid of these properties to actually liquidate the 
things that they don't need.
  It is time to put this board in place, and this en bloc amendment 
will help us to do so. This will help us to build infrastructure across 
the country and sell off the things that we don't need.
  Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
Illinois (Mr. Schneider).
  Mr. SCHNEIDER. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support of my amendment 
which is included in this en bloc package. This amendment would 
increase funding for the Small Business Administration Entrepreneurial 
Development programs by $4 million, with the increase intended to 
support entrepreneurship education.
  Our entrepreneurs and small-business owners form the foundation of 
the American economy. Entrepreneurs with inspired ideas benefit from 
the educational resources and information that help them convert those 
ideas into thriving businesses. Entrepreneurship education within the 
SBA provides resources such as growth assistance, financial literacy 
education, and basic information for aspiring entrepreneurs.
  We in Congress have a responsibility to ensure that Americans, young 
and old, with the entrepreneurial spirit and dedication to succeed have 
access to lessons and resources that will help them succeed. This 
amendment will help our small businesses to prosper and, ultimately, 
create jobs.
  I urge my colleagues to support this amendment to continue to ensure 
that the United States remains the best place in the world to start and 
grow a business.
  Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my 
time.
  Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
Connecticut (Mr. Courtney).
  Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of the en bloc 
amendment which contains an amendment offered by myself and the 
gentleman from Connecticut (Mr. Larson), which directs that funding at 
the Department of the Treasury shall be used to develop a revenue 
procedure related to a deduction for casualty losses for homes that are 
suffering crumbling foundations in north-central and eastern 
Connecticut and western Massachusetts. It is related to a pyrrhotite 
material which cropped up in a quarry that was used for aggregate in 
concrete foundations and is sweeping the area. Thousands of homes are 
affected by it.
  Mr. Larson and I are actively working with Treasury Secretary Mnuchin 
for this purpose.
  Mr. LARSON of Connecticut. Will the gentleman yield?
  Mr. COURTNEY. I yield to the gentleman from Connecticut.
  Mr. LARSON of Connecticut. Mr. Chairman, I want to thank my colleague 
for being stellar in this, in leading the fight in the State of 
Connecticut and in joining the Connecticut General Assembly in that 
effort. I thank Congressman Courtney for his diligence in this effort.
  Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from Tennessee (Mr. Kustoff), who has been leading the fight against 
opioid and drug abuse.
  Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support of 
the en bloc package, which includes my amendment to increase funds to 
the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas by $10 million.
  After many grave conversations with law enforcement throughout my 
district, it is crystal clear that this drug scourge is one of the top 
concerns right now, if not the top concern.
  Mr. Chairman, I know my colleagues are having similar discussions in 
their districts, so they understand just how serious the issue is 
becoming for the American people. Our drug task force in the Eighth 
Congressional District of Tennessee desperately needs these funds, as 
we have seen a spike in trafficking of narcotics across Interstate 40 
in west Tennessee.
  The spread of illegal drugs in west Tennessee and across the Nation 
leads to higher crime rates, which means our local, State, and Federal 
law enforcement are being stretched incredibly thin. But we must also 
think of the resources needed to battle the drug addiction epidemics, 
such as the opioid crisis. We should be proactive now because 
prevention is the best long-term solution.
  Our law enforcement are working tirelessly, but they simply do not 
have the proper resources to effectively combat drug trafficking. We 
must do more to support our law enforcement in this fight, and I 
believe that increasing funds to the HIDTA program is a really good 
first step.
  No doubt, officers at the local, State, and Federal level have 
expressed support for this amendment, and I urge my colleagues to 
support these en bloc amendments.
  Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from 
Hawaii (Ms. Gabbard).

[[Page H7340]]

  

  Ms. GABBARD. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support of this package 
and an amendment that includes additional funding for the Native 
American CDFI Assistance Program.
  The CDFI Fund's Native Initiatives program seeks to level the 
economic playing field by providing awards to organizations that make 
credit, capital, and other essential financial services available to 
underserved and impoverished Native communities.
  In the past, this program has provided funding to organizations like 
Lei Ho'olaha, which provides financial training and loans to charter 
schools and community centers in Hawaii to help make them creditworthy. 
It also provides funding to the Council for Native Hawaiian 
Advancement, which helps provide access to capital for people living in 
Native Hawaiian communities to help them purchase affordable homes, 
start new businesses, and to help drive commerce.
  We must build upon this progress in Native communities and increase 
the funding for the CDFI Fund's Native Initiatives to build businesses, 
create jobs, empower these Native communities, and spur economic 
growth. Please support this amendment.
  Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my 
time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendments en bloc offered 
by the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Graves).
  The en bloc amendments were agreed to.


                Amendment No. 190 Offered by Mr. Roskam

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 190 
printed in House Report 115-297.
  Mr. ROSKAM. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       At the end of division D (before the short title), insert 
     the following:
       Sec. __.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to authorize a transaction by a U.S. financial 
     institution (as defined under section 561.309 of title 31, 
     Code of Federal Regulations) that is ordinarily incident to 
     the export or re-export of a commercial passenger aircraft to 
     the Islamic Republic of Iran.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 504, the gentleman 
from Illinois (Mr. Roskam) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Illinois.

                              {time}  1415

  Mr. ROSKAM. Mr. Chair, I rise today in support of amendment No. 190, 
which would help prevent companies from weaponizing the Iranian regime 
and help stop the flow of troops and armaments to Assad's murderous 
regime.
  This amendment would prohibit the Office of Foreign Assets Control 
from authorizing the sale of aircraft to Iran.
  Western companies are in the process of trying to sell dozens of 
planes to Iran Air--that is Iran's flagship carrier--and other Iranian 
airlines with deep ties to hostile Iranian actors.
  Iran's aviation sector, led by Iran Air, has a long history of 
illicitly transporting militants, weapons, and explosives on commercial 
aircraft to terror groups and rogue regimes. Iran's Islamic 
Revolutionary Guard Corps--the IRGC--and Iran's Ministry of Defense use 
commercial aircraft to directly support Iran's campaign of terror 
around the Middle East.
  In recent years, both before the Iran nuclear deal and after, Iranian 
airlines have served as a lifeline to the Assad regime, transporting 
weapons and troops to the embattled dictator. Iran Air was recently 
designated by the U.S. Treasury for such activity. Numerous Iranian 
airlines remain sanctioned.
  Last year, while speaking on the floor in support of these same 
amendments, which passed the floor, I had on display this map beside me 
exhibiting the route of an Iran Air flight in the middle of the night 
from an IRGC hub to war-torn Damascus. This midnight flight was 
unscheduled and flew on a routine Iranian arms supply path to Syria. 
Hundreds of these flights are documented, showing a sophisticated 
Iranian arms supply system using commercial jets.
  On display now is even more compelling evidence of Iran Air's 
nefarious activity. These recently taken photos display Iran-backed 
Afghani militiamen flying Iran Air to Syria. You can see these same 
militiamen holding AK-47s on the ground in the Syrian war zone and 
prepping heavy artillery. These fighters are reported to be part of an 
IRGC training Afghan Shiite militia actively fighting for the Assad 
regime. Iran Air and the IRGC transport these jihadis to Syria to fight 
for a dictator responsible for the deaths of almost a half a million 
people, Mr. Chairman.
  Until Iran ceases using commercial aircraft to support terrorists and 
war criminals, Western companies ought not be allowed to sell Iranian 
airlines more aircraft that they can use to fuel Assad's brutal war.
  Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Chair, I claim the time in opposition to the 
amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Oregon is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Chair, I yield myself 2\1/2\ minutes.
  Mr. Chair, I rise in opposition to my friend's amendment, somebody I 
enjoy working with and respect; but, with all due respect, I think he 
is wrong on this. There is no denying the fact that there are some bad 
people in Iran who do bad things, and we have a complicated 
relationship that we are trying to deal with.
  But, first of all, there are already other countries who are involved 
with this. Airbus just had a contract. What the gentleman is talking 
about would deny the opportunity for Boeing to be able to have these 
sales go forward, cost Americans up to 100,000 jobs, and keep billions 
of dollars out of the United States' economy.
  Mr. Chairman, part of this is people are deeply concerned about the 
agreement that we made with Iran dealing with nuclear weapons, which, I 
would note, to this point, has actually dialed down some of the work in 
terms of halted enrichment beyond 3.67 percent, it limited the size of 
its uranium stockpile, filled in the core of a heavy water nuclear 
reactor with cement, and provides an opportunity for us to do 
something. There are many areas in this region where we have common 
interests, and we are kind of doing a dance.
  One of the concerns I have is the United States has consistently 
mismanaged its relationship with Iran.
  How would we feel if somebody had moved to overturn our popularly 
elected government, as we did with Iran in 1953, or we sided with 
Saddam Hussein in the brutal war against Iran when they were openly 
using chemical weapons?
  There are things here that have made this a difficult relationship.
  The majority of Iranians, ironically, still like Americans. Unlike 
Donald Trump's imaginary Muslims in New Jersey dancing in the street on 
9/11, in Tehran on 9/11, there were candlelight vigils in support of 
the United States. It has more of a democracy than what we have in 
Saudi Arabia and Egypt.
  Now, I agree that we have challenges dealing with them, but at a time 
when we should be strengthening ties with a former enemy through 
diplomacy, trade, and job creation, we should be able to try and have 
the management of this complicated relation rather than penalizing 
American companies for no good purpose.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. ROSKAM. Mr. Chairman, may I inquire how much time remains?
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Illinois has 2\1/2\ minutes 
remaining, and the gentleman from Oregon has 2\1/2\ minutes remaining.
  Mr. ROSKAM. Mr. Chair, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
Kentucky (Mr. Barr), the chairman of the Subcommittee on Monetary 
Policy and Trade of the Financial Services Committee.
  Mr. BARR. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support of the amendment of 
my friend from Illinois. The gentleman has shown great leadership on 
this issue prohibiting the Office of Foreign Assets Control from using 
funds to issue a license allowing U.S.-made aircraft to be sold to 
Iran, and also prohibiting OFAC from using funds to authorize U.S. 
financial institutions to finance the purchase of military fungible 
aircraft to Iran.
  As the chairman of the subcommittee with oversight over treasury 
implementation of sanctions, it is just unacceptable and unnecessary to 
expose the

[[Page H7341]]

U.S. financial system to the world's leading state sponsor of terrorism 
in a jurisdiction of primary money laundering concern.
  At a hearing in April, the Committee on Financial Services heard 
testimony that Iran Air's role in the Syrian conflict continues. That 
same day, the public received reports of a chemical weapons attack 
killing dozens of Syrian civilians.
  What we know is that there is significant evidence suggesting that 
Iran Air flights are now being used to transport personnel and material 
supporting the IRGC and its efforts to assist the Assad regime and 
Hezbollah.
  Mr. Chairman, I applaud the gentleman's amendment and I support it. 
We should not be assisting the world's leading state sponsor of 
terrorism with commercial aircraft.
  Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Chair, I want to be clear. I understand the deep 
concerns about things that Iranians are doing that I personally 
disagree with. The Syrian conflict is a horrific tragedy, but we have 
problems with Russia in Syria, we have problems with Turkey in Syria. 
We are involved with a situation in the Middle East that is horrific 
and is going to require all of our best efforts.
  With all due respect, we have a number of things we are trying to 
achieve in this regard. I think being able to maintain our commitments 
under the agreement with the JCPOA is important. That Iranian nuclear 
agreement has held and it is one of the few bright spots in that 
region.
  Second, we are punishing an American company, but, as I mentioned, 
Airbus just executed a contract. There are other parts of the world 
that have moved forward. One of the reasons that we were able to get 
alignment was there are different agreements in terms of what people 
want to do with France, Great Britain, Germany, and Russia.
  We have struck an agreement with those allied powers working with us 
to make it more difficult for Iran to be a nuclear state. We have an 
opportunity for us to not penalize American companies. We have an 
opportunity for us to try and make diplomacy work, which has been 
undercut by many of the things we are seeing from the administration, 
trying to dial back the capacity of the State Department, dial back the 
soft power that even the military says that we need to do.
  We have a number of areas where there are sponsors of terror. 
Pakistan is involved with all sorts of things in this region, and, of 
course, they have been key in helping North Korea become a nuclear 
state.
  I don't think we should paint a picture here that is too simplistic. 
We ought to acknowledge the fact that this is complex, that there are 
problems, but deal with a country where the majority of people like 
Americans, where they have kept their nuclear commitments, where other 
countries are going to step in and fill the gap, and that we ought not 
to penalize American industry or undercut diplomatic efforts.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. ROSKAM. Mr. Chairman, my friend from Oregon acknowledges that 
there are bad people doing bad things in Iran. Well, let's not help 
them. Let's not be complicit.
  And as to the candlelight vigils, none of the mullahs, none of the 
leadership, were involved in candlelight vigils for the United States. 
These are the people that are chanting and provoking: Death to America.
  This does no violence to those who were supporters of the JCPOA. They 
like it. This has no impact on it whatsoever. Furthermore, it doesn't 
put American companies at any other disadvantage than other companies 
have. In other words, the two big players here are Airbus and Boeing, 
neither of whom, if we are successful with this amendment, would be 
able to sell into that marketplace. Why? Because Airbus has the same 
level of technology, they get caught up in the same net that we do.
  We have got to ask the question: Do we step back and say, ``Wow. It 
is just complicated and it is overwhelming, and, inshallah, let's do 
nothing''?
  No. Let's lean in. Let's make a decision. Let's be articulate and 
let's say that we are choosing not to be complicit with what we know is 
outrageous, and that is the use of commercial aircraft supporting the 
world's largest state sponsor of terror. This is fairly intuitive. The 
House has come together on these issues in the past.
  Mr. Chair, I urge its passage, and I yield back the balance of my 
time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Illinois (Mr. Roskam).
  The amendment was agreed to.


                Amendment No. 191 Offered by Mr. Roskam

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 191 
printed in House Report 115-297.
  Mr. ROSKAM. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       At the end of division D (before the short title), insert 
     the following:
       Sec. __.  None of the funds made available to the 
     Department of Treasury by this division may be used to issue 
     a license pursuant to any Office of Foreign Assets Control 
     (OFAC) memo regarding Section 5.1.1 of Annex II to the Joint 
     Comprehensive Plan of Action of July 14, 2015 (JCPOA), 
     including the January 16, 2016, OFAC memo titled, ``Statement 
     of Licensing Policy For Activities Related to the Export Or 
     Re-Export to Iran of Commercial Passenger Aircraft and 
     Related Parts and Services'' and any other OFAC memo of the 
     same substance.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 504, the gentleman 
from Illinois (Mr. Roskam) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Illinois for 5 minutes.
  Mr. ROSKAM. Mr. Chairman, this amendment is similar to the previous 
amendment debated. Specifically, it would prohibit the Office of 
Foreign Assets Control from authorizing U.S. financial institutions--
that is the distinction--from financing aircraft and sales to Iran.
  It is the same reasons. It is all the same facts. It is fairly 
straightforward.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to the amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Illinois is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Chairman, ideological riders have no place on the 
appropriations bill. The substance of the amendment should be debated 
as a stand-alone piece of legislation and under the proper committee of 
jurisdiction.
  Unfortunately, the fiscal 2018 Financial Services appropriations bill 
before us today is already loaded full of policy riders that don't 
belong on spending bills.
  Furthermore, this amendment would block the ability of Boeing to 
complete the $30 billion worth of aircraft sales to Iran, resulting in 
the loss of U.S. jobs. It would put U.S. in breach of JCPOA.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. ROSKAM. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentleman 
from Colorado (Mr. Lamborn), a member of the Armed Services Committee.
  Mr. LAMBORN. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of amendment 191 to the 
Financial Services and General Government appropriations bill. This 
amendment prohibits funds from being used to issue a license relating 
to the sale of commercial passenger aircraft to the Islamic Republic of 
Iran.
  The JCPOA allowed for the sale of commercial aircraft to Iran Air, 
but it is an Iranian airline that the Treasury Department designated in 
2013 for providing material, support, and services to the Iranian 
Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps.

                              {time}  1430

  What changed in those 3 years from that designation to the signing of 
the JCPOA? Congress has yet to see a report of good behavior on the 
part of the Iranians. The Ayatollahs continue to call America the ``Big 
Satan.''
  The sales of these aircraft must be stopped so long as the Iranians 
continue to be the leading state sponsor of terrorism.
  I thank Representative Roskam for his leadership on this issue and 
hope that it passes with unanimous support.
  Mr. ROSKAM. Mr. Chair, I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentleman from 
New York (Mr. Zeldin).
  Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of this amendment which I 
am proud to cosponsor with my colleagues, Mr. Roskam and Mr. Lamborn.

[[Page H7342]]

  When the U.S. entered into the JCPOA, we empowered Iran to advance 
its bad activities. Iran Air was sanctioned in 2011, for using 
commercial flights to transport missile and rocket components to Syria. 
The Syrian war is far from over. We cannot allow Iran to establish a 
permanent presence in Syria.
  This amendment would block taxpayer funds from supporting a regime 
that has killed too many people. I strongly support the passage of this 
amendment. I am concerned, as I hear opposition to this amendment where 
we are talking about the need to protect American jobs, where the 
connection is being made to those American jobs being used to support 
terrorism abroad. That is a stretch.
  I would encourage my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, if 
they are concerned about protecting American jobs, that we are pursuing 
American jobs to help our great country, not supporting the bad 
activities of a regime that is developing intercontinental ballistic 
missiles in violation of U.N. Security Council resolutions; calling 
Israel the ``Little Satan'' and America the ``Great Satan;'' 
overthrowing foreign governments; financially awarding terror; the 
largest state sponsor of terrorism. I say that my colleagues on the 
other side of the aisle should be sharing our concern and supporting 
this amendment.
  Mr. Chairman, I thank Mr. Roskam for his leadership.
  Mr. ROSKAM. Mr. Chairman, to close, as to the argument about 
ideological riders, this is the Article I branch. It is the prerogative 
of the House of Representatives and the Congress to speak and decide 
how money is to be spent.
  As to the notion that, the accusation that this breaches the JCPOA, 
as much of a critic as I am of that deal, this doesn't breach it. So it 
is in compliance with it.
  The notion of jobs is an interesting one, and it kind of creates a 
moral quandary until, Mr. Chairman, you balance out these two things: 
jobs versus lives. Is that really a question here? Aren't lives more 
important than jobs? Isn't it an interesting thing that several Members 
of the Washington State delegation where Boeing, in particular, is 
headquartered have actively written to the leadership of the Boeing 
Company saying, don't do this, essentially, and don't put our employees 
in the moral quandary of having to move forward on this?
  Finally, Mr. Chairman, how would we be feeling if the debate were 
happening in 1938 in this country, and the question was: Are we going 
to loan money to some commercial operation that can be used by the 
regime in Hamburg, Germany, for example? We would be scandalized by it.
  We need to recognize with a sense of clarity where we are in history. 
We ought not to be complicit with this. This House can make a great 
deal of difference in the future of this fight.
  Mr. Chair, I urge the passage of this amendment, the adoption of it, 
and I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Illinois (Mr. Roskam).
  The amendment was agreed to.


                Amendment No. 192 Offered by Mr. Palmer

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 192 
printed in House Report 115-297.
  Mr. PALMER. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       At the end of division D (before the short title), insert 
     the following:
       Sec. __.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     (including title IV and title VIII) may be used to carry out 
     the Reproductive Health Non-Discrimination Amendment Act of 
     2014 (D.C. Law 20-261) or to implement any rule or regulation 
     promulgated to carry out such Act.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 504, the gentleman 
from Alabama (Mr. Palmer) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Alabama.
  Mr. PALMER. Mr. Chairman, my amendment would prohibit funds from 
being used to implement the District of Columbia's Reproductive Health 
Non-Discrimination Amendment Act of 2014, or RHNDA.
  This law prevents religious and pro-life advocacy organizations from 
making employment decisions consistent with their institutional 
mission. The First Amendment States in part that ``Congress shall make 
no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free 
exercise thereof. . . . ''
  Without my amendment, some employers in the District of Columbia 
would be forced to embrace the beliefs of the 13 members of the D.C. 
Council. D.C. allows abortions until the moment of birth, but a number 
of organizations in D.C.--such as March for Life, Americans United for 
Life, and the Susan B. Anthony List--exist solely to protect the 
sanctity of life.
  The Constitution provides them the right to exercise those beliefs 
just like it does those who oppose it. That is why, when the District 
passed RHNDA, former D.C. Mayor Vincent Gray described it as ``legally 
problematic'' saying: `` . . . the bill raises serious concerns under 
the Constitution, and under the Religious Freedom Restoration Act. . . 
. ''
  My amendment would restore religious freedom to employers inside the 
District of Columbia. Those who want to have an abortion do not have to 
work for employers who oppose them. They have life and the liberty to 
pursue their own interests with another employer.
  Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Ms. NORTON. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong opposition to this 
amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman from the District of Columbia is 
recognized for 5 minutes.
  Ms. NORTON. Mr. Chair, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  This amendment prohibits the District of Columbia from spending its 
local funds to carry out a local antidiscrimination law, the 
Reproductive Health Non-Discrimination Amendment Act. Unlike the D.C. 
Council which passed this law, no Member of this Congress was elected 
to legislate on local D.C. matters, or is accountable to the voters of 
the District of Columbia.
  This amendment gives employers the license to discriminate against 
employees, their spouses, and their dependents, based on their private, 
constitutionally protected reproductive decisions.
  This amendment permits employers to fire a woman for having an 
abortion due to rape, or to decline to hire a woman for using in vitro 
fertilization, or to fire a man for using condoms, or to reduce the 
salary of a parent for buying birth control for his or her child.
  Contrary to the sponsor's claim, the D.C. law does not require 
employers to provide insurance coverage for reproductive health 
decisions. Importantly, the law states expressly, here this language: 
``This section shall not be construed to require an employer to provide 
insurance coverage related to a reproductive health decision.''
  The D.C. law is valid under both the U.S. Constitution and the 
Religious Freedom Restoration Act. Indeed, the law has been in effect 
for more than 2 years. It is now law. And there appear to have been no 
lawsuits challenging it.
  Under the U.S. Constitution, laws may limit religious exercise if 
they are neutral, generally applicable, and rationally related to a 
legitimate governmental interest. Under the Religious Freedom 
Restoration Act, laws may substantially burden religious exercise only 
if they further a compelling governmental interest in the least 
restrictive means.
  The D.C. law meets all of these requirements. That is why it has 
never been challenged. The D.C. law also protects religious liberty. 
The Constitution's narrow ministerial exception allows religious 
organizations to make employment decisions for ministers and 
ministerial employees for any reason whatsoever.
  D.C. law permits religious and political organizations to make 
employment decisions based on religious and political views. Under the 
D.C. law, employees must be willing to carry out an employer's missions 
and directives.
  I urge Members to vote ``no'' on this amendment in order to protect 
employees' reproductive health decisions, workplace equality, and 
D.C.'s own right to self-government.

[[Page H7343]]

  Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. PALMER. Mr. Chair, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from Arizona 
(Mr. Biggs).
  Mr. BIGGS. Mr. Chairman, I thank Mr. Palmer for sponsoring this 
amendment, which I support wholeheartedly.
  I support Mr. Palmer's implementation of the District of Columbia 
Reproductive Health Non-Discrimination Amendment Act which passed the 
D.C. Council in 2014. This law limits the ability of employers, 
including pro-life organizations, to avoid hiring applicants whose 
personal beliefs are contrary to their respective missions.
  Today, Congress can begin to right this wrong. Think about the real 
effect of this law. Organizations like March for Life, Americans United 
for Life, Susan B. Anthony List, or Family Research Council, among 
others, whose mission is to advocate for the sanctity of life could be 
forced to hire individuals who disagree with those very principles.
  In the 2012 case, the U.S. Supreme Court unanimously affirmed the 
right of religious organizations to hire employees that support the 
mission of the organization for which they will be advocating.
  We cannot allow 13 D.C. Council members to circumvent that decision 
and strip employers of their Constitutional rights. The United States 
Constitution explicitly grants Congress the power to ``exercise 
exclusive legislation in all cases whatsoever, over'' the District of 
Columbia.
  I believe we have a responsibility to ensure the D.C. Council is not 
infringing on the religious liberties of pro-life organizations.
  Mr. Chair, I encourage my colleagues to support this amendment.
  Mr. PALMER. Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Ms. NORTON. Mr. Chair, may I inquire how much time I have remaining.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman has 2 minutes remaining.
  Ms. NORTON. Mr. Chair, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from 
Colorado (Ms. DeGette), one of the leaders of the right to privacy in 
this Congress.
  Ms. DeGETTE. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong opposition to this 
amendment. The gentleman from Alabama talks about the First Amendment 
rights of employers, but, clearly, this statute by the D.C. Government 
complies with all of the constitutional rights.
  What I am concerned about here is discrimination against employees 
for making their own reproductive health decisions. Apparently, that 
doesn't matter to the people on the other side of the aisle: the right 
of people to take birth control, to have in vitro fertilization, or 
even to have an abortion.
  The D.C. Council decided that was an important right, and that is why 
they passed this legislation. This is why we should preserve it today. 
There is absolutely no reason why we should take the rights of self-
governance away from D.C., and there is absolutely no reason why we 
should take the rights of women and families to exercise their legal, 
constitutional healthcare decisions.
  Mr. Chair, I strongly oppose this amendment, and urge a ``no'' vote.
  Mr. PALMER. Mr. Chairman, in spite of numerous requests--with all due 
respect to the gentlewoman from Colorado and the distinguished Delegate 
from the District of Columbia--in spite of numerous requests, no 
exemptions were included in the Reproductive Health Non-Discrimination 
Amendment Act for either moral or religious objections. I think my 
colleague from Colorado just pointed that out, that they intended no 
exceptions.
  RHNDA, as enacted, has no religious exemption, and legislative 
history suggests it may have been passed specifically to target faith-
based employers.
  Nobody should be forced to take a position one way or the other, or 
be able to hire them. By leaving this in place, it exposes employers to 
potential lawsuits.
  I would like to point out that, in regard to Congress' authority over 
this issue, Article I, section 8, clause 17 of the Constitution states 
that Congress shall have power to exercise exclusive legislation, in 
all cases whatsoever, over the District.
  Mr. Chair, I take exception to my colleague's point that it is 
acceptable to infringe on the religious liberties of certain people who 
actually believe in protecting life. The Constitution does not provide 
for only a certain group to practice their religion, but everyone has a 
right to practice his or her religion. No government interest can 
overcome that constitutional right.
  Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Ms. NORTON. How much time do I have remaining, Mr. Chairman?
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman has 1 minute remaining.
  Ms. NORTON. Mr. Chair, I don't know what the District of Columbia can 
do to satisfy the ideologically driven Members on the other side. We 
protected religious liberty. There have been absolutely no challenges. 
Republicans persist in ignoring the plain wording on abortion, and, 
above all, they have ignored their own groundwork principle of local 
control.
  This is a majority that yells local control for everybody except the 
residents of the District of Columbia. We have defeated this amendment 
before. We will defeat this amendment again, if not in this House, in 
the other Chamber, I assure you. It is law. It is going to remain law.
  Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.

                              {time}  1445

  Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Chairman, as the designee of Ranking Member Lowey, I 
move to strike the last word.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Illinois is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. QUIGLEY. This is an interesting debate, Mr. Chairman. Normally it 
would be heard for the would-be candidates for the District of Columbia 
City Council, but the issues remain far more important.
  This amendment would, once again, overreach by prohibiting funds for 
D.C.'s Reproductive Health Nondiscrimination Amendment Act of 2014. 
That law prohibits discrimination based on reproductive health 
decisions. The Reproductive Health Nondiscrimination Amendment Act 
protects workers in D.C. from workplace discrimination if the employer 
disagrees with the employee's use of contraception, in vitro 
fertilization, and even perhaps a medically necessary abortion. The law 
prohibits employers from making employment decisions based on 
reproductive health decisions of employees, their spouses, and 
children.
  Without RHNDA, employers could fire a woman for having an abortion 
due to rape, fire a man for using a condom, reduce the pay for a parent 
buying birth control for their child, and decline to hire a woman for 
using in vitro fertilization. D.C. is protecting workers from losing 
their jobs if their supervisors do not agree with their most personal 
decisions. This amendment would strip those protections from D.C. 
workers.
  For those who thought this bill infringed on employers' religious 
beliefs, D.C. passed a statutory clarification that no employer was 
required to provide insurance coverage related to reproductive health 
decisions.
  During the congressional review period, the Republican-controlled 
House passed a resolution disapproving this bill, but the Republican-
controlled Senate did not. The Congress had time to act on this issue, 
and it failed to do so.
  D.C. residents should not be subject to endless efforts to overturn 
their laws. People should be judged at work based on their performance 
and not on their personal, private reproductive healthcare decisions. 
That is why D.C. passed this law.
  To my friends across the aisle, I understand they see this as a 
constitutional challenge, but, with all due respect, they are anti-
Federalist and Federalist when it is convenient--and not just because 
of D.C. It has to do more with issues they don't agree with. They are 
very much for States' rights and local control unless it has something 
to do with issues like gun violence or a woman's right to choose. This 
is inconsistent and, frankly, with all due respect, somewhat 
hypocritical.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge a ``no'' vote on this amendment, and I yield 
back the balance of my time.
  Mr. PALMER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 20 seconds to the gentleman from 
Georgia (Mr. Graves).
  Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I want to thank the gentleman 
from Alabama (Mr. Palmer) for his

[[Page H7344]]

fierce support and defense of our First Amendment rights and religious 
freedoms. Faith-based and pro-life organizations should be free to 
serve according to their deeply held beliefs. So the vote on this 
amendment today is one on which you should be voting ``yes'' for the 
First Amendment and ``yes'' for religious freedom.
  Mr. PALMER. Mr. Chairman, I want to remind people of what former 
Mayor Gray wrote in his letter: ``Religious organizations, religiously 
affiliated organizations, religiously driven for-profit entities, and 
political organizations may have strong First Amendment and RFRA 
grounds for challenging the law's applicability to them.''
  The Supreme Court in the Hosanna Tabor v. EEOC decision made it 
clear--this was a unanimous decision--that organizations are free to 
hire people who are like-minded and who support their views. In regard 
to federalism, the Constitution gives Congress the right to legislate 
over the District of Columbia.
  If D.C. won't respect the rights of its citizens, then it is 
Congress' duty to ensure the laws of D.C. comply with Federal law and 
the Constitution.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to support this amendment and vote 
``yes,'' and I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Alabama (Mr. Palmer).
  The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the ayes 
appeared to have it.
  Ms. NORTON. Mr. Chairman, I demand a recorded vote.
  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further 
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Alabama will 
be postponed.
  It is now in order to consider amendment No. 193 printed in House 
Report 115-297.


                Amendment No. 195 Offered by Mr. Gohmert

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 195 
printed in House Report 115-297.
  Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Chairman, as the designee of the gentleman from 
Florida (Mr. Posey), I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 361, line 17, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $165,300)''.
       Page 634, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $165,300)''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 504, the gentleman 
from Texas (Mr. Gohmert) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Texas.
  Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Chairman, I rise to offer an amendment to H.R. 3354. 
Originally this was offered by my friend from Florida (Mr. Posey), who 
is currently helping his constituents recover from Hurricane Irma, so I 
rise on behalf of Mr. Posey.
  Mr. Chairman, this amendment would strike the IRS' Operations Support 
account by $165,300 and transfer that amount to the Spending Reduction 
account. The effect would be to eliminate the salary of IRS 
Commissioner John Koskinen's salary, in fact, and would finally begin a 
tiny amount of accountability that American taxpayers have deserved for 
quite some time.
  Not only did Commissioner Koskinen fail to hold the IRS accountable 
for wrongfully targeting groups based on their lawful political 
beliefs, but he obstructed the congressional investigations into the 
scandal.
  When Congress requested the testimony of Lois Lerner, who was head of 
the Exempt Organization Division at the IRS, she took the Fifth 
Amendment and refused to cooperate. Instead of providing these records, 
as required, Mr. Koskinen chose to--in his words--``recycle'' the 
Lerner email records. By recycle, Mr. Koskinen meant, obviously by his 
actions, destroy evidence that was part of a congressional 
investigation, which was in direct conflict with his duties as a public 
servant and, in particular, as head of the Internal Revenue Service.
  After obstructing a congressional investigation, Mr. Koskinen then 
lied about it under oath on several occasions before Congress. In other 
words, he repeatedly and contemptuously perjured himself before 
Congress.
  Now, on June 20, 2014, for example, Mr. Koskinen testified in a Ways 
and Means Committee hearing that since the targeting investigation 
started, every email had been preserved and nothing was lost. At that 
very same hearing, Mr. Koskinen said that the backup files no longer 
existed. He then went on to say that the IRS had ``gone to great 
lengths to spend a significant amount of money trying to make sure that 
there were no emails that were required that has not been produced.''
  That, as we found out, was a blatant lie. Mr. Koskinen and his staff 
had gone to no lengths to get these emails. They had done nothing. In 
fact, the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration said that 
the IRS under Koskinen--his direction--simply did not look for the 
emails at all. Later, more than 1,000 emails were recovered from backup 
tapes that the IRS had attempted to destroy knowing they were being 
sought by Congress.
  A year later, on June 20, 2015, Mr. Koskinen again falsely 
testified--also known as perjuring himself--that all of the Lerner 
emails had been preserved--not lost--but the IRS had destroyed the 
emails, in fact, and tried to destroy the backup tapes as well. That 
was well after the investigation had started and the emails were being 
sought.
  Koskinen's dishonesty and obstructionist actions were not limited to 
congressional business. His actions directly affected American 
taxpayers. Under his tenure, IRS customer service for the 2015 filing 
season was nothing short of abysmal. Taxpayers were forced to wait 
hours to speak to an IRS agent, even after Congress gave him more money 
than he had had before for that assistance, but under his control and 
direction, it was squandered in other ways.
  The terrible customer service was a direct result of Mr. Koskinen's 
IRS directing funds meant for taxpayer services toward other 
priorities.
  At his confirmation hearing, Commissioner Koskinen promised that he 
would be transparent. That was a lie. This man's salary should be 
reduced.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Chairman, I claim the time in opposition.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Illinois is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Chairman, this amendment is intended to cut the pay of the IRS 
Commissioner to zero. It is nothing more than a gratuitous, partisan 
cheap shot, an amendment offered last year that failed. I know and I am 
sure there are plenty of people out there who think that Members of 
Congress should be paid nothing or have their salary reduced to next to 
nothing because they disagree with them or they don't like their 
actions.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to oppose this amendment, and I 
reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Chairman, in conclusion, I hope and literally pray 
that at some point we will put politics aside and, when somebody lies 
in front of Congress, we will join together to say: Not before 
Congress; there will be consequences.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Chairman, there have been extraordinary attacks on 
the IRS Commissioner in a wide variety of ranges, but an amendment 
similar to this failed last year, which meant there were Republicans 
who opposed it as well as Democrats. There were attempts to offer 
impeachment on this matter, and those were partisan efforts in a 
nonconstructive way. This is just one more element toward that end. It 
is unnecessary.
  Mr. Chairman, I encourage my colleagues to vote ``no,'' and I yield 
back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Texas (Mr. Gohmert).
  The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the ayes 
appeared to have it.
  Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Chairman, I demand a recorded vote.
  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further 
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Texas will 
be postponed.

[[Page H7345]]

  



                Amendment No. 196 Offered by Ms. Norton

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 196 
printed in House Report 115-297.
  Ms. NORTON. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 513, strike line 1 and all that follows through page 
     514, line 11.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 504, the gentlewoman 
from the District of Columbia (Ms. Norton) and a Member opposed each 
will control 5 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from the District of Columbia.
  Ms. NORTON. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Chairman, my amendment strikes the repeal of the District of 
Columbia's Local Budget Autonomy Act, which allows the District of 
Columbia to spend its local funds consisting solely of local taxes and 
fees after a 30-day congressional review period; and this is now law.
  It is astonishing that my Republican colleagues are so at odds with a 
local jurisdiction spending its own local funds without the approval of 
a Federal body, U.S. Congress, and that the House will be voting for a 
third time since May 2016 to repeal this local law. The first two 
attempts were not enacted into law, and I expect this third attempt to 
fail, too.
  In fact, I should not even have to offer this amendment. The bill's 
repeal of the Local Budget Autonomy Act violates the House rule against 
legislating on an appropriations bill. Of course, the special rule 
governing consideration of the bill prohibits me from raising a point 
of order against the repeal provision, which would be sustained by the 
Chair.
  The Local Budget Autonomy Act is in effect. It is now law, I repeat. 
This year, the D.C. Council passed its second local budget under the 
Local Budget Autonomy Act.
  Smart lawyers differed about the validity of the Local Budget 
Autonomy Act when D.C. enacted it. However, the Local Budget Autonomy 
Act has been litigated. The only court ruling in effect upheld it, the 
ruling was not appealed, and the court ordered D.C. officials to 
implement it.
  Some House Republicans disguised their opposition to the Local Budget 
Autonomy Act with legalistic arguments until Speaker Ryan revealed last 
year the real reason the House passed the stand-alone bill repealing 
the Local Budget Autonomy Act. He said: ``There are real consequences. 
The D.C. government wants to use revenues to fund abortions in the 
District. House Republicans will not stand for that.''

                              {time}  1500

  The Speaker was wrong about the effect of the Local Budget Autonomy 
Act. Congress loses nothing under our budget autonomy law. Congress 
retains the authority to legislate on any D.C. matter, including its 
local budget, at any time. That is unfortunate, but that, too, is the 
law.
  The Local Budget Autonomy Act is a modest attempt by the District to 
be able to implement its local budget soon after it is passed, like 
other jurisdictions, instead of having it caught up in congressional 
delays.
  Indeed, the riders in the bill prohibiting D.C. from spending its 
local funds on marijuana commercialization and abortion services for 
low-income women were changed from those in prior appropriations bills 
to account for the Local Budget Autonomy Act. Still, that is not 
enough.
  Historically, D.C. riders applied only to funds included in 
appropriations bills, because only appropriations bills authorized D.C. 
spending. In this bill, as in fiscal year 2017, the riders apply to 
D.C. local funds available under any authority, including those in the 
local budget passed under the Local Budget Autonomy Act.
  Local control over the dollars raised by local taxpayers is a 
principle much cited by my Republican colleagues, and it is, indeed, 
central to the American form of government. Beyond this core principle, 
budget autonomy has practical benefits for D.C., including lowering 
borrowing costs, more accurate revenue and expenditure forecasts, 
improved agency operations, and the removal of the threat of D.C. 
government shutdowns during Federal Government shutdowns. These are our 
concerns.
  D.C.'s budget is larger than the budgets of 14 States, Mr. Chairman. 
The District raises $8 billion in local funds. While D.C. is in a 
better financial position than most cities and States in this country, 
with a rainy-day fund of over $2 billion on a total budget of $14 
billion, budget autonomy makes the District even stronger, as it must 
be, because it has no State fallback.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to the 
amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is recognized for 5 minutes.
  Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I have the greatest respect for 
Ms. Norton, and I appreciate her passion and zeal for the District. She 
advocates well for them.
  I hear my friends across the aisle speak about disregard for local 
law. Let me assure you, Mr. Chairman, this is truly not the case.
  Article I, section 8 of the Constitution gives Congress the power 
``to exercise exclusive legislation in all cases whatsoever'' over the 
seat of government of the United States, which is the District of 
Columbia.
  The District of Columbia is neither a State nor a municipality; in 
fact, it is a District. Therefore, D.C. derives all of its powers not 
from the sovereignty of statehood but from the delegation that is given 
to them by Congress.
  By the way, the Home Rule Act in 1973 has allowed D.C. to assume more 
and more responsibility over time.
  This bill before you continues to appropriate D.C. funds, as it has 
for the last 44 years. That is 44 years of Republican majorities and 
Democratic majorities. This changes nothing from that. It was under 
various administrations as well.
  This bill does not change the special and unique relationship between 
D.C. and the Federal Government, because the D.C. Budget Autonomy Act 
did not change that special, unique relationship between the District 
and the Federal Government whatsoever.
  The D.C. Budget Autonomy Act only amended the Home Rule Act as 
adopted by the D.C. Code. So no State, county, city, or hybrid like the 
District of Columbia can override the supremacy of the Constitution.
  Mr. Chairman, as we debate this each and every time, let me assure 
the body here that the District of Columbia has plenty of autonomy, but 
when it comes to spending, that is the role of Congress as given to us 
through the U.S. Constitution.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge a ``no'' vote on the amendment, and I yield back 
the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR (Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois). The question is on 
the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from the District of Columbia 
(Ms. Norton).
  The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the noes 
appeared to have it.
  Ms. NORTON. Mr. Chairman, I demand a recorded vote.
  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further 
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from the 
District of Columbia will be postponed.
  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 198 
printed in House Report 115-297.


                 Amendment No. 199 Offered by Mr. Ellison

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 199 
printed in House Report 115-297.


 =========================== NOTE =========================== 

  
  September 13, 2017, on page H7345, the following appeared: 
AMENDMENT NO. 199 OFFERED BY MR. ELLISON Mr. ELLISON. Mr. 
Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  
  The online version has been corrected to read: AMENDMENT NO. 199 
OFFERED BY MR. ELLISON The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to 
consider amendment No. 199 printed in House Report 115-297. Mr. 
ELLISON. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.


 ========================= END NOTE ========================= 

  Mr. ELLISON. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 590, strike line 1 and all that follows through page 
     591, line 14.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 504, the gentleman 
from Minnesota and a Member opposed each will control 5 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Minnesota.
  Mr. ELLISON. Mr. Chairman, my amendment simply preserves the Consumer 
Financial Protection Bureau's independent funding and ensures that it 
is adequately funded. That is essentially what this is all about. This 
is very clear. The sides on this couldn't be more clear. My amendment 
is one of many this week, but I hope that people pay special attention 
to how folks vote on this particular amendment.
  This amendment is a clear litmus test. If a legislator wants to 
support

[[Page H7346]]

the work of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, if they want to 
support the work of $11.5 billion being returned to consumers, they 
should vote ``yes.''
  A ``yes'' vote on my amendment means you want to protect Americans 
from fraud, deceptive practices, and rip-off schemes.
  A ``yes'' vote means you want banks, debt collectors, credit 
reporting agencies, payday lenders, and other finance companies to be 
held accountable if they rip off consumers.
  A ``yes'' vote means that you want honest and fair-dealing firms in 
the financial services space to be rewarded for their good work and for 
people who take advantage of consumers to be punished.
  We want to keep good companies good. How can you do that if good and 
bad get treated just alike?
  We need the CFPB. My amendment asks that you stand with Ari Booras, 
for example. As you may have seen on ``CBS Sunday Morning'' a few weeks 
ago, Harry Booras contacted the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau's 
consumer complaint center for help. His teenage son, Ari, joined the 
Army, just like mine did, and bought a used truck at a car dealer near 
his base.
  My boy was 18 when he went to the Army. Ari was the same age, I 
imagine. Yet that desire was taken advantage of.
  Teenage Ari joined the Army and bought a used truck at a car dealer 
near the base. The loan was way more than this private could possibly 
afford, with an extensive extended warranty and 18.5 percent interest. 
Private Booras would have paid three times more than Blue Book value 
for this $11,000 truck. He would have paid three times more. Yet he 
can't afford three times more. He is just a private trying to serve his 
country.
  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau got Private Booras and 
50,000 other servicemembers out of these predatory loans that ruin 
their finances and cause enormous stress in their lives. We need 
servicemembers thinking about protecting the country, not how to fight 
off some predatory lender.
  My amendment asks that you stand with Samir Hanef from Durham, North 
Carolina. Samir was one of more than half a million people who was 
wrongly charged for auto insurance when he took out a loan to buy a 
Honda Civic.
  Samir, a social worker, already had insurance, but Wells Fargo 
charged him and 20,000 others, customers, added insurance that made 
them miss payments. This led to their cars being repossessed in some 
cases.
  The numerous scandals at Wells Fargo--the forced insurance, fake 
accounts, overcharges at mortgage closing, signing customers up for 
life insurance without their consent, and other fraudulent practices--
are coming to light because of the work of the Consumer Financial 
Protection Bureau and its consumer complaint office. They need 
independence.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to the amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Missouri is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Chairman, in June, the House passed H.R. 10, the 
Financial CHOICE Act, with overwhelming support.
  Section 713 of the Financial CHOICE Act contained language to subject 
the CFPB to the annual congressional appropriations process.
  Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFPB is funded out of the earnings of 
the Federal Reserve system. In order to obtain funding, the Director 
need only submit a letter to the Board of Governors and Federal Reserve 
each quarter certifying the amounts of funds determined by the Director 
to be reasonably necessary for carrying out the authorities of the 
Bureau. The Federal Reserve then transfers the stated amount to the 
Bureau for operations.
  Basically, the Federal Reserve serves purely as an ATM machine for 
the CFPB, and neither Congress nor the President has the ability to 
have any input into the Bureau's funding or oversight of whether that 
funding is spent effectively.
  The Bureau's funding is, therefore, different from other regulators 
that police markets for force and fraud, including the Federal Trade 
Commission, the Securities and Exchange Commission, Consumer Product 
Safety Commission, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, and all those 
which are funded principally through congressional appropriations.
  To return to a constitutional structure and create agency 
accountability, Congress must reclaim its power of the purse over the 
most potent tools the Constitution gives Congress for conducting 
oversight of Federal agencies and implementing the real reforms. There 
can be no consent of the governed if the American people, through their 
democratically elected Representatives, have no say in how their 
government spends their hard-earned dollars.
  To reassert Congress' power of the purse, the Financial CHOICE Act 
calls for all the Federal financial regulatory agencies, including the 
CLEA and FSOC, to be funded through the congressional appropriations 
process, ensuring that these agencies use their funding effectively and 
transparently to fulfill their mission of protecting consumers and 
investors.
  Like other executive branch agencies and other regulators that police 
the markets, the CFPB will have the chance to justify its expenditures 
to Congress as a part of the appropriations process. Congress 
can continue to fund programs that provide value to consumers and can 
stop funding programs that are mired in waste, fraud, and abuse. This 
is a basic accountability measure, no more, no less.

  It seems my good colleague across the aisle is fearful that we may do 
something to harm that ability. He is afraid of providing 
accountability for those dollars. That is our basic function and it is 
our responsibility. We must not miss this opportunity to reestablish 
separation of powers and restore the constitutional governance to the 
administrative state.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. ELLISON. Mr. Chairman, how much time do I have remaining?
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Minnesota has 1 minute 
remaining.
  Mr. ELLISON. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
Illinois (Mr. Quigley).
  Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman for yielding.
  Before Dodd-Frank, consumer protection laws were enforced by a 
patchwork of different regulations, each focused on their own issues. 
The CFPB enhanced and simplified consumer regulation, consolidating 
enforcement into a single authority devoted to all aspects of consumer 
protection ranging from oversight over mortgages and credit cards to 
unregulated products previously, like payday and student loans.
  The Wells Fargo fake account scandal, which CFPB played a key role in 
exposing, and the more recent Equifax data breach show precisely why we 
need a well-resourced and functional CFPB.
  By subjecting the CFPB to the appropriations process, the goal is not 
to provide necessary oversight. Considerable accountability measures 
already exist. It is to starve them of funding and weaken their ability 
to do their job. We have seen this before with other financial 
regulators like the FCC and CFTC, who are still struggling to carry out 
Dodd-Frank rulemaking.
  Therefore, I ask my colleagues to preserve the independence, stand on 
the side of consumers, and vote ``yes'' on the Ellison amendment.

                              {time}  1515

  Mr. ELLISON. Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
Kentucky (Mr. Barr).
  Mr. BARR. Mr. Chairman, I thank the chairman's leadership on this, 
and, with all due respect to my friends on the other side of the aisle, 
this amendment is not about protecting consumers. This amendment is 
about protecting bureaucrats from accountability from the American 
people.
  You know, I don't know, for the life of me, why Members of Congress 
would not defend this institution, both Republicans and Democrats on 
both sides of the aisle defend this institution. Why on Earth would we 
give away the most complete and effectual power of

[[Page H7347]]

Congress--as James Madison said, ``the power of the purse''--away to 
unelected, unaccountable bureaucrats in the executive branch?
  When I asked Chair Yellen whether she approves the budget of the 
Bureau, she didn't know the answer to that basic question. We know that 
the CFPB is not accountable to the American people through their 
elected Representatives in Congress. That is by statutory design. That 
is what Dodd-Frank says. But we would hope that they would at least be 
accountable to the source of their funding, and they are not even 
accountable to the Fed.
  Defeat this amendment, support accountability, support the 
Constitution and restoring the power of the purse to the elected 
Representatives of the Congress.
  Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Rothfus).
  Mr. ROTHFUS. Mr. Chairman, I, too, rise in opposition of this 
amendment. The proponent suggests that his amendment is basically 
necessary for the functioning of the CFPB. It is not. The CFPB is going 
to continue to function but with the accountability of the American 
people.
  This amendment is inconsistent--inconsistent with the fundamental 
principle of American Government: of government of the people, by the 
people, and for the people. This amendment is inconsistent with the 
fundamental American principle of self-rule. That happens in this 
Congress.
  Congress needs to have authority over every part of the Federal 
Government, including the CFPB, so we can make the determination of 
what harm it may be bringing to consumers. We do know that consumers 
have been harmed with loss of free checking and losing their local 
community institutions because of the overregulation coming from this 
town.
  So I urge my fellow Members to defeat this amendment and to vote for 
accountability over the CFPB.
  Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 15 seconds to the gentleman 
from Georgia (Mr. Graves), chair of the Financial Services and General 
Government Subcommittee.
  Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I appreciate the work here by 
the gentleman making a great case on why this amendment is harmful to 
the American people and to the financial prosperity, and so I join them 
in my opposition, and their opposition as well, to this amendment and 
urge the House to defeat it.
  Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Chairman, may I ask how much time I have left.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Missouri has 15 seconds 
remaining.
  Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Chairman, just to close, I would encourage all 
the Members to oppose the amendment. It is curious why we have someone 
here who is fighting the ability of Congress to do its job to provide 
oversight. So I ask the question: Are we fearful of somebody looking 
over the shoulder of CFPB? Why? What are they hiding? What are they not 
doing? What should we be worried about? I think, more than ever, we 
need to be looking over their shoulder.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Minnesota (Mr. Ellison).
  The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the noes 
appeared to have it.
  Mr. ELLISON. Mr. Chairman, I demand a recorded vote.
  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further 
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Minnesota 
will be postponed.


                Amendment No. 200 Offered by Mr. Ellison

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 200 
printed in House Report 115-297.
  Mr. ELLISON. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 563, strike line 16 and all that follows through page 
     566, line 3.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 504, the gentleman 
from Minnesota (Mr. Ellison) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Minnesota.
  Mr. ELLISON. Mr. Chairman, my amendment preserves the CFPB's 
authority to protect people who live in manufactured housing, 
manufactured housing buyers.
  I am lucky to have the National Manufactured Home Owners Association 
based in my district. For the Record, they have written an excellent 
letter on behalf of this amendment, which I will include in the Record.

                                      Manufactured Housing Action.
     Representative Keith Ellison,
     House of Representatives,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Congressman Ellison: We are writing to thank you for 
     introducing the Ellison Amendment #200 to the Department of 
     the Interior, Environment and Related Agencies Act of 2018 
     (H.R. 3354). On behalf of the manufactured homeowners we 
     represent, we our offering our organizational support for 
     this amendment.
       MHAction empowers homeowners and residents in manufactured 
     home communities to build and win local, state and national 
     issue campaigns that strengthen the long-term viability and 
     affordability of their communities. The work of MHAction is 
     based on a set of core values, central to which are 
     compassion for our neighbors and love of our communities. We 
     believe that manufactured home communities play a key role in 
     providing affordable, safe and accessible housing for all 
     families, regardless of race, language, immigration status, 
     class, religion, gender, or sexual orientation. MHAction 
     currently represents over 19,000 manufactured homeowners in 
     28 states.
       It is vital that this amendment passes to protect 
     manufactured home buyers, especially people of color that 
     face higher levels of lending discrimination and seniors. We 
     need to ensure that the Consumer Finance Protection Bureau 
     retains the power to ensure that potential home buyers aren't 
     steered into high fee and high interest loans. When people 
     buy a home, it should help increase their stability and 
     wealth, not damage their finances.
       Again, we would like to express our sincere thanks to your 
     office for fighting to ensure that the Consumer Finance 
     Protection Bureau can continue to protect manufactured home 
     buyers from loans that strip away their economic and 
     retirement security.
       Should you have any question, please feel free to contact 
     MHAction's Executive Director, Kevin Borden. Our organization 
     can easily put your office in touch with purpose-driven 
     community leaders in numerous states that have been fighting 
     to strengthen the economic and retirement security of 
     manufactured homeowners.
           Sincerely,
     The MHAction Core Team.
                                  ____

                                             National Manufactured


                                      Home Owners Association,

                                  St. Paul, MN, September 7, 2017.
     Representative Keith Ellison,
     House of Representatives,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Congressman Ellison: On behalf of the 17 million 
     people nationwide who live in manufactured homes, we offer 
     our support for the Ellison Amendment No. 200 to the 
     Department of the Interior, Environment and Related Agencies 
     Act of 2018 (H.R. 3354).
       This amendment prevents the roll back of vital Dodd-Frank 
     consumer protections that would be especially harmful to low- 
     and moderate-income families. Contrary to claims made by 
     those making these changes, the current manufactured housing 
     provisions in H.R. 3354 would not expand access to credit and 
     would not serve the interests of homeowners and communities. 
     Instead, this bill would undermine already vulnerable 
     homeowners by stripping away protections created by Congress 
     and implemented by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
       These protections were put in place for a reason: to give 
     manufactured-home owners the same protections as traditional 
     home owners. The last housing crisis showed that exorbitant 
     loan pricing was a particular area of abuse. Congress and the 
     CFPB decided to protect homeowners from these practices, but 
     the current language in H.R. 3354 would repeal these 
     protections for the buyers of manufactured homes.
       The severity of this problem has been well-documented by 
     investigations such as the one conducted by The Seattle Times 
     and the Center for Public Integrity. In a series of articles 
     published in 2015, it was reported that ``former dealers said 
     the company encouraged them to steer buyers to finance with 
     Clayton's own high-interest lenders.'' The investigation 
     concluded that industry leader, ``Clayton relies on predatory 
     sales practices, exorbitant fees, and interest rates that can 
     exceed 15 percent, trapping many buyers in loans they can't 
     afford and in homes that are almost impossible to sell or 
     refinance.''
       We support the Ellison Amendment No. 200 to H.R. 3354 in 
     order to retain the CFPB's efforts to protect manufactured 
     home buyers from high cost loans. Please feel free to contact 
     us with any questions.
           Sincerely,
                                                    Dave Anderson,
                                               Executive Director.

  Mr. ELLISON. I am also very proud of the residents of the Park Plaza, 
a

[[Page H7348]]

manufactured home resident-owned community in my district.
  They tell me that being steered to high-cost loans makes 
homeownership more costly for families. Before Dodd-Frank and the 
creation of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the manufactured 
home loan market was notoriously predatory.
  For example, a story in The Seattle Times, which I recommend Members 
read, tells the story of Kirk and Patricia Ackley, a construction 
worker and a Walmart employee in Washington State.
  More than a decade ago, they bought a new manufactured home big 
enough for their children and room to care for Patricia's dad, who had 
dementia. But their dream became a nightmare when the promised 7 
percent interest rate was raised to 12.5 percent.
  This family faced crisis when this raised their monthly payment from 
$700 to $1,100. They had already invested $11,000 to build the concrete 
foundation for their new home. They took the loan, but it destroyed 
their finances and nearly cost them their marriage. The home was 
repossessed.
  A 2015 investigation by the Center for Public Integrity and The 
Seattle Times interviewed more than 280 customers of Clayton Homes. One 
person they interviewed was a member of the Navajo Nation. She said she 
learned about Clayton on Navajo radio.
  The ad recommended that she talk to a specific Navajo-speaking 
salesperson at a lot outside of the reservation. He told her that 
Vanderbilt Mortgage was the only source of finance for homes on the 
reservation. He didn't tell her the truth and overcharged her.
  Now it is illegal for a salesperson to steer buyers to high-cost 
loans because of new rules from the Consumer Financial Protection 
Bureau. But section 915 of the bill weakens those protections. Loans 
with high interest rates can be especially devastating to buyers of 
mobile homes since houses often depreciate quickly.
  A buyer with a high rate will still owe a large sum for many years on 
a home that can be almost impossible to sell or finance. That is 
because the value of the home can fall below the loan balance.
  Opponents of my amendment say that they want to help manufactured 
home buyers. That is a good thing. Yet none of them have cosponsored 
H.R. 515, which would provide low-cost loans to owners of outdated 
mobile homes so they can buy ENERGY STAR homes, which would reduce 
their bills and save energy. None of them have joined me to cosponsor 
the Frank Adelmann Manufactured Housing Community Sustainability Act, 
which helps residents of mobile home communities form a cooperative and 
buy the land that they live on. Or what about H.R. 3583 that gives 
manufactured homeowners located in communities the same tax benefits as 
those who own their own land?
  I have introduced these bills to try to help people who live in 
manufactured homes. We do and must stand with them because this is an 
affordable, and sometimes quality, housing option for people, and yet 
manufactured homeowners support my bills.
  Right here we have the National Manufactured Home Owners Association, 
which has said very clearly that my amendment is a good one.
  There is a way to help manufactured homeowners that does not involve 
overcharging them. There is a way forward to help owners of 
manufactured housing without helping Clayton Homes and its affiliates 
make more money off of them.
  And let's be clear, nearly no other lender benefits to this change to 
section 915. Ninety-one percent of the high-cost loans come from 
lenders owned by Clayton. The industry's second largest mobile home 
lender, Wells Fargo, didn't have a single loan in the high-rate pool in 
The Seattle Times study.
  Protect manufactured home buyers. Support my amendment No. 200.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. BARR. Mr. Chairman, I claim the time in opposition to the 
amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Kentucky is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. BARR. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Chairman, the examples raised by my friend, the gentleman from 
Minnesota, really have nothing to do with the provisions of the bill 
that the amendment seeks to strike. What the bill does do, the 
underlying bill, and I thank the gentleman from Georgia for including 
this in the Financial Services Appropriations bill--what the bill does 
is make targeted adjustments so that manufactured home loans are 
available in the market.
  Again, consumer protection is not denying people access to affordable 
housing, and that is what the gentleman's amendment would do.
  The Dodd-Frank Act does prevent predatory lending, but nothing in 
this language changes that at all. Instead of unrelated stories about 
consumer protections that the bill's provision will not change, let's 
get back to talking about how consumers are actually harmed by the 
rules we are seeking to change.
  Look, let's talk about real people who are affected negatively by 
overreach by the CFPB and Dodd-Frank, people in my district in 
Kentucky, in rural Kentucky where manufactured housing is one of the 
best affordable options and less expensive than renting.
  Let's talk about the hospital worker in Paducah, Kentucky, who was 
denied a loan of $38,500 to finance a manufactured home. He had an 8 
percent down payment. His monthly income was $2,200 per month, plenty 
to cover the all-in housing costs of $670 per month.
  The payment for his own home would have been less than what he was 
spending on rent, but he was unable to get financing. Why? Because of 
the CFPB; because of Dodd-Frank; because of overregulation. He 
contacted his local banks and credit unions, but they no longer 
financed manufactured homes because of overregulation.
  Those harmed include those who currently live in and those who seek 
to purchase a manufactured home: retirees, veterans, working families, 
et cetera.
  And the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act data is clear. Consumers have 
been shut out of the market for quality affordable housing because 
regulations have caused financing to be less available for manufactured 
homes.

  I want to reserve the balance of my time, and I want to give some 
other Members an opportunity to say something about this, but I do want 
to just conclude by saying, this amendment, again, is not about 
consumer protection. The amendment protects consumers right out of 
their homes. That is not consumer protection. Keeping access to 
affordable homeownership is the American Dream. We shouldn't be denying 
that to people, especially in rural America.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time, and may I ask how 
much time I have left.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Kentucky has 2\1/2\ minutes 
remaining.
  Mr. BARR. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
Missouri (Mr. Luetkemeyer).
  Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Chairman, it is interesting, some of the debate 
we are having here this afternoon. We are picking around on the edges 
of some things and don't really understand the unintended consequences 
of what we are trying to do here.
  The amendment that is here, to try to change the definitions of what 
a mortgage originator and a high-cost mortgage to facilitate access to 
credit for purchasing manufactured homes, is going to do just the 
opposite of what the gentleman is trying to do.
  Do you realize that the gentleman from New Mexico (Mr. Pearce), in 
his district, he has testified in our committee that over 50 percent of 
the people in his district live in manufactured homes. This is not a 
little bitty problem of half a dozen people living over on the side. 
This is a major source of housing for many people.
  I can tell you, I have got a story right here from a banker in 
southeast Missouri who had an individual who has several disabilities, 
was a very honest man, wanted to come in and take care of a dental 
problem that he had, and his only collateral was a truck and his 
manufactured home.
  He wanted to make the loan on the manufactured home because he could 
stretch out the payments and do it at a less interest rate, but he 
couldn't do that. Why? Because the way the law is

[[Page H7349]]

structured, he had to do it on his car loan, and, as a result, it 
really strained and put difficulties in the way of--put barriers in the 
way of this individual. So I certainly am opposed to the amendment.
  Mr. BARR. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
Georgia (Mr. Graves).
  Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I thank Mr. Barr for his work on 
this. I mean, the language that the author of this amendment is trying 
to strip is actually language that improves the quality and 
affordability of housing for millions of Americans. So I appreciate Mr. 
Barr for trying to save Americans from the limited access to resources 
out there.
  Unfortunately, new regulations by the CFPB have limited access to 
financing options for manufacturing homes as well as many other things.

                              {time}  1530

  And, as a result, many lenders now today are no longer able to offer 
small balance loans, which are often used for the purchase of 
affordable housing, such as manufactured housing. We should be 
supporting and encouraging more access to financing. After all, we are 
talking about the American Dream, the ownership of your home. Don't 
take that away.
  I thank the gentleman for his work, and I urge a ``no'' vote on this 
amendment.
  Mr. BARR. Mr. Chairman, just to conclude, this is not about raising 
costs for people. This is about actually making it more affordable to 
own a home. There may be, in some cases, a higher interest rate for a 
manufactured home than a site-built home.
  But, remember, a manufactured home can be less than half the cost of 
a site-built home. So you are talking about overall affordability.
  Why would we deny people the opportunity to have overall 
affordability, as opposed to being forced into higher cost rent where 
they don't even own the American Dream, or being in a position where 
they can't afford at all?
  The only option available is a site-built home, a nonmanufactured 
home.
  Defeat this amendment, preserve access to rural affordable housing, 
be pro-consumer, and oppose this amendment.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Minnesota (Mr. Ellison).
  The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the noes 
appeared to have it.
  Mr. ELLISON. Mr. Chairman, I demand a recorded vote.
  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further 
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Minnesota 
will be postponed.


                Amendment No. 201 Offered by Mr. Ellison

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 201 
printed in House Report 115-297.
  Mr. ELLISON. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 598, strike line 12 and all that follows through page 
     599, line 2.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 504, the gentleman 
from Minnesota (Mr. Ellison) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Minnesota.
  Mr. ELLISON. Mr. Chairman, my amendment is to preserve the Consumer 
Financial Protection Bureau's authority to regulate small-dollar loans.
  Sometimes people need access to more money quickly. We know that. 
Your car breaks down, your refrigerator dies, or your kid breaks a leg 
at a soccer game and you get hit with an unexpected health bill. Life 
happens sometimes, not on a plan. We get that.
  Unfortunately, too many people--about half of families--do not have 
the adequate savings for the cushion. Right now, Mr. Chairman, about 63 
percent of all Americans report that they do not know what they would 
do if hit with an unexpected $500 bill.
  If they take out a payday loan or a title loan, they can fall into a 
cycle of debt, and many people do. Instead of getting one $500 loan, 
most people get a repeat loan of 6 to 10, on average, paying additional 
fees each time, at 400 percent interest. So a $500 loan could cost 
thousands of dollars.
  More than 80 percent of the payday industry's revenues are generated 
by repeat borrowers, not one-and-done, Mr. Chairman.
  That is why the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau prioritized 
improving the small-dollar loan market. Unfortunately, language in this 
bill would stop the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau from moving 
forward to rein in abuses in the payday loans, auto title loans, and 
other similar debt traps.
  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has documented through 
extensive study how payday lending traps borrowers in a cycle of debt: 
one in three auto title loans in default, one in five borrowers using 
auto title loans have their cars repossessed. That is 20 percent.
  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is close to releasing 
guidance to improve this market. Its efforts are supported by a broad 
network of civil rights and consumer advocates, as well as faith-based 
leaders opposing predatory lending.
  I am really proud of Exodus Lending in my district. The Minneapolis 
Lutheran congregation recognized that too many of their congregants 
were stuck in debt traps. Their parishioners had jobs. They had bank 
accounts. But when they took out small-dollar loans, it gave lenders 
access to their bank accounts, which stripped out a third of their 
paycheck every 2 weeks. Instead of one loan, they ended up getting ten 
because they could not repay the first loan.
  So the Lutherans, working with Sunrise Banks, established an 
alternative. They made more than 100 loans to people stuck in debt 
traps. Other communities are creating small-dollar lending alternatives 
through employer assistance programs with for-profit partners.
  My amendment would simply allow the CFPB to finalize its rulemaking 
so cool ideas like these, to help people out of debt, could go forward. 
We need strong Federal standards so people can have access to small 
loans on a quick basis without falling prey to debt traps.
  Research from the Center for Responsible Lending shows that payday 
lending drains $3.4 billion a year nationally from consumers' pockets--
money that is no longer available to help pay for medicine, new tires, 
or any kind of emergency.
  The CFPB is very close to putting forth a better way to get private 
sector lenders involved. We could have a $300 loan with $60 fees that 
someone can repay.
  Let's allow the CFPB to move forward to better small-dollar loans. 
Please support my amendment.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Chairman, I claim the time in opposition to the 
amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Missouri is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Chairman, in June, the House passed H.R. 10, the Financial CHOICE 
Act, with overwhelming support. Section 733 of the Financial CHOICE Act 
contained language to remove the CFPB's authority to regulate small-
dollar credit.
  Federalizing payday loan regulation is unnecessary and harms 
consumers. The legislatures of several States have determined the 
respective short-term small-dollar lending solutions that work for 
their constituents. No State is without small-dollar short-term lending 
laws and regulation of some kind.
  Congress has an obligation not to suspend the Democratic process in 
the States by delegating to the CFPB Director the authority to impose 
one unelected man's view on all Americans.
  Small-dollar and payday loan products are an unfortunate necessity 
for many unbanked and underbanked Americans.
  What is the APR for losing a job, Mr. Chairman? What is the APR for 
getting evicted and having your utilities shut off? What is the 
opportunity cost for struggling Americans no longer having access to 
this vital lifeline?
  Removing the option to utilize a small-dollar short-term loan is 
likely

[[Page H7350]]

to have a very real and very harmful impact on a consumer, forcing them 
to miss bill payments, shift to the alternative, potential legal 
options, or exacerbating any number of other conceivable financial 
emergencies that could arise.
  Mr. Chairman, I believe the best way to improve products is to 
promote competition and offering them, not ban them. The Financial 
CHOICE Act ensures that the market, not the regulators, is responsible 
for determining product viability in the marketplace.
  Mr. Chairman, CFPB's own study showed that their regulation was going 
to drive out of business 85 percent of the small-dollar lenders, and 
they still went ahead. They don't care. They intend to restrict credit 
to these very people that need the credit.
  An FDIC 2015 study shows that 25 percent of the people in this 
country are either unbanked or underbanked.

  How do we solve that problem? How do those folks have access to 
credit?
  The CFPB is not trying to regulate. They are trying to destroy the 
small-dollar lending market.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. ELLISON. Mr. Chairman, let's be clear, to get a payday loan, you 
have to have a bank account and a job. We are not talking about the 
unbanked. We are talking about people who run into a short-term 
financial crisis, they go to a payday lender, but the amount of the 
fees are so high that they have to borrow money to pay the money back, 
and they end up getting in a cycle of 6 to 10 loans that they have to 
continue to take out, which drains money from their finances. They lose 
bank accounts because of payday loans.
  We are saying: Let the CFPB allow the regulatory process, the 
rulemaking process, to go forward. Let's not chop it off, let's not 
stop it, and let's see what we can find out. People in my district have 
come up with some pretty innovative ways to go around the high-cost, 
high-APR payday lending scam.
  But if we just say, No, we are just going to take authority away from 
the CFPB, what we are really doing is subjecting Americans to the 
payday loan industry. Now, I don't want to take support from those 
guys, so I am happy to stand up here and say: Vote for my amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The time of the gentleman from Minnesota has 
expired.
  Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the distinguished 
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Rothfus).
  Mr. ROTHFUS. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to the amendment.
  Here we go again: another amendment defending another one-size-fits-
all Washington solution, and a solution that the D.C. Circuit Court of 
Appeals would say is going to be promulgated by the single most 
powerful official, other than the President, in the United States 
Government, an official that could effect the lives of countless 
Americans who are in need of short-term credit.
  This amendment is a solution in search of a problem. There is no 
regulation going on in payday lending. The fact is these transactions 
are being regulated. They are being regulated at the State level by 
legislators who know their States and their constituents.
  This CFPB action, if they act here, may very well remove the option 
to utilize a small-dollar short-term loan, and that is likely to have a 
very real and very harmful impact on the consumer, forcing them to miss 
bill payments, shift to alternative--potentially illegal--options, or 
exacerbating any number of other conceivable financial emergencies that 
could arise.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to oppose the amendment.
  Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Chairman, how much time do I have remaining?
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Missouri has 2 minutes 
remaining.
  Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 30 seconds to the gentleman 
from Georgia (Mr. Graves), the distinguished chairman of the Financial 
Services and General Government Subcommittee.
  Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I join this team here in 
opposition to the amendment.
  I want us just to think about what we have heard over the last 
several minutes of debate here of various amendments.
  First, we heard an amendment offered to take away the American Dream 
so that consumers couldn't buy a home at an affordable cost. Next, we 
are hearing that the other side of the aisle wants to take away the 
ability of small loans from individuals and consumers across the 
country. But even prior to that, they did not want the very agency that 
is causing this damage to have any oversight by Congress. This is 
maddening. This is amazing.
  I appreciate the good work that has been done by the Financial 
Services Committee. I am glad we have been able to incorporate a lot of 
the great work into this bill.
  Mr. Chairman, I join these gentlemen in opposition to the amendment 
because this is about making America prosperous again, and that is what 
this bill does.
  Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself the balance of my time.
  Mr. Chairman, this is really frustrating to me from the standpoint 
that just a minute ago I gave the figure of 25 percent of our people 
are either unbanked or underbanked. My good colleague across the aisle 
said he is not worried that people who are unbanked can't have access 
to payday lending or short-term lending, and that is just not accurate. 
That is, quite frankly, in many instances, where people get their 
credit started. They go to someplace like this because they have a job.
  You can't get a payday loan or a small-dollar loan like this unless 
you have a job. They take the stub of their paycheck and they can go in 
and say, I have got a job. From there, they are able to then start 
paying back whatever the loan is that they take out.
  I have in front of me also a whole list of groups of folks and 
individuals here who have utilized short-term small-dollar programs.
  Here is Michelle from Fulton, Missouri, in my own district. She says: 
My frustration to loan access today is that my 20-year-old daughter, 
who has a full-time, decent-paying job, cannot get a loan to buy her 
first vehicle. She isn't even able to get a credit card, which you used 
to be able to just apply for and you would get it. It is a catch-22: 
you need credit to get credit. But nobody will give you credit to begin 
with.
  This is an opportunity for a lot of people to get their foot in the 
door to get credit established and, if you have bad credit, to 
reestablish good credit. And it also helps people to take care of--and 
I have another whole bunch of stories here about a young man who needed 
to get a car loan to get his car fixed, as the gentleman from Minnesota 
indicated.
  So, again, Mr. Chairman, I oppose the gentleman's amendment, and I 
ask everybody else to do so as well.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Minnesota (Mr. Ellison).
  The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the noes 
appeared to have it.
  Mr. ELLISON. Mr. Chairman, I demand a recorded vote.
  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further 
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Minnesota 
will be postponed.
  It is now in order to consider amendment No. 203 printed in House 
Report 115-297.


               Amendment No. 204 Offered by Mr. Mitchell

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 204 
printed in House Report 115-297.
  Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 348, line 18, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $20,175,100)''.
       Page 354, line 22, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $33,083,700)''.
       Page 360, line 25, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $481,000,000)''.
       Page 377, line 18, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $5,500,000)''.
       Page 381, line 18, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $10,000,000)''.
       Page 392, line 11, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $7,853,800)''.
       Page 413, line 20, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $12,300,000)''.
       Page 446, line 17, after the first dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $26,500,000)''.
       Page 634, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert 
     (increased by $596,412,600).


[[Page H7351]]


  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 504, the gentleman 
from Michigan (Mr. Mitchell) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Michigan.

                              {time}  1545

  Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Chairman, our Nation faces a dire fiscal situation. 
We have reached our debt limit, we have lifted our debt limit, and we 
are now determining how to control our spending while still funding 
necessary programs. What is worse, too many of our Federal regulations 
and mandates that we fund--or maybe more appropriately, the taxpayers 
fund--are unnecessary and exact burdensome, excessive costs on our 
constituents, both families and businesses.
  The reality is we can and we must make cuts to our government before 
financial markets make them for us. We can do that without impacting 
essential programs if we make the right targeted cuts. If we make those 
cuts, we can actually grow our economy by stopping overeager 
bureaucrats who seem to believe that everything--and I do mean 
everything--should be regulated until it no longer functions.
  Not only is such action possible, it is essential for the well-being 
of the American economy and our families. We in Congress need to be 
focused on growing and protecting Main Street, not protecting an 
already bloated Federal Government.
  The amendment I have proposed today makes a cut to the bureaucracy of 
several offices of Financial Services. These cuts are a modest 10 
percent reduction of administrative expenses, which will save taxpayers 
over $596 million, annually. Let me repeat that. That is over half a 
billion dollars a year. If we put enough together, it is real money.
  One of the cuts included in the amendment is to the IRS. My amendment 
does not target IRS services, those that help taxpayers get a lost 
refund or have questions about filing. Lord knows those people need all 
the help they can get to understand our Tax Code. Rather, the amendment 
focuses on IRS enforcement.
  This is the part of the IRS that abused their power by targeting 
groups based on their political beliefs, victimizing groups and 
individuals for exercising their constitutional rights and trying to 
follow the rule of law. They misled Americans and took 3 years to 
provide a full list of organizations that were targeted for their 
political beliefs. This is an agency that must be stopped, and my 
amendment is a step towards doing so, while saving the American 
taxpayers money.
  I urge my colleagues to seriously consider my amendment as we work to 
secure our financial future and hold our government accountable.
  Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Chair, I rise in opposition to the amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Illinois is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Chairman, this type of amendment bluntly imposes 
cuts to government function without regard to merit or consequence. 
Indiscriminate cuts to the administration accounts in this bill would 
lead to weakened cybersecurity and increased threat of cyberattacks to 
the Department of the Treasury systems, poor administration of grants 
to small businesses, longer wait times for citizens seeking assistance 
from Federal agencies, longer processing times for issuing Federal 
payments, reducing the ability of the IRS to detect and deter tax 
cheats, costly short-term spending decisions, and widespread delays in 
civil and bankruptcy cases, just as a few examples.
  The underlying bill is already dangerously underfunded, having been 
cut by 6 percent below current levels. Furthermore, the administrative 
accounts were a large source of this reduction to total funding, and 
this amendment blindly strips nearly $600 million more out of these 
offices.
  This amendment would not encourage the agencies to do more with less. 
Simply put, it would force the agencies and our constituents to do less 
with less.
  Mr. Chair, I strongly urge Members to oppose this amendment, and I 
reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Chair, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
Georgia (Mr. Graves), my colleague and the chair of the subcommittee.
  Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I know Mr. Quigley and our team 
have worked hard on this bill, and there are a lot of tough decisions, 
no doubt about that. We have made some tremendously difficult 
decisions.
  I know Mr. Mitchell was sitting here with a mission from his 
constituency, and that was to produce savings, to find savings and to 
reduce the debt and the deficit. Mr. Chairman, I applaud his efforts. I 
know he has sharpened his pencil and he has done a lot of work, and I 
appreciate him bringing this concept before the House.
  Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Chair, just across-the-board cuts are an abdication 
of responsibility. It is up to us as appropriators to determine exactly 
what needs funding and at what levels. For those reasons, I ask my 
colleagues to oppose this amendment.
  Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Chair, I have to say, I am astonished at the 
response that an across-the-board cut is indiscriminate. It actually 
allows the agencies within their administrative accounts to manage 
money as they best see fit.
  The idea that we can't cut 10 percent of the budget only works in 
government. I spent a big part of my career in the private sector--over 
30 years. I spent quite a period of time with the Chrysler Corporation 
in the original loan guarantee days, where Lee Iacocca said: If you 
can't cut 10 percent of your budget, I will find a new manager. We 
saved the company.
  It happens in the real world every day--Lord knows it happened after 
2008 and the financial crash--yet somehow we are looking at government 
agencies and they can't save 10 percent in administrative costs. It is 
not possible to do it without Armageddon in Financial Services, without 
a cybersecurity crash, without all the fear-mongering that comes over a 
simple cut.
  If we are ever going to get to the point that we can afford the 
government we have, we have to have some fiscal limitations. We have to 
have some responsibility. Rather than these broad strokes of it is 
indiscriminate, if we target it, that will be a problem, too.
  I urge my colleagues to support an amendment that holds some 
accountability and saves half a billion dollars in the Federal budget 
and makes people simply manage within their resources like the rest of 
the world has to.
  Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR (Mr. Luetkemeyer). The question is on the amendment 
offered by the gentleman from Michigan (Mr. Mitchell).
  The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the ayes 
appeared to have it.
  Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Chair, I demand a recorded vote.
  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further 
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Michigan 
will be postponed.


       Amendment No. 205 Offered by Mr. Jenkins of West Virginia

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 205 
printed in House Report 115-297.
  Mr. JENKINS of West Virginia. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at 
the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 360, line 25, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $6,000,000)''.
       Page 384, line 6, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $6,000,000)''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 504, the gentleman 
from West Virginia (Mr. Jenkins) and a Member opposed each will control 
5 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from West Virginia.
  Mr. JENKINS of West Virginia. Mr. Chairman, HIDTA, the High Intensity 
Drug Trafficking Area, is a critically important program that brings 
together Federal, State, and local law enforcement, and it is making a 
difference in my home State and in many parts of the country.

[[Page H7352]]

  HIDTA is a flexible program that has helped law enforcement afford 
critical overtime and equipment that they would struggle to afford. 
This program is tackling our most challenging public health and safety 
issue of our time: the drug opioid epidemic.
  HIDTA is needed. The opioid epidemic is getting worse, and this is 
not a time to hold back on funding programs that work.
  At Thomas Health System in South Charleston, West Virginia, the 
number of infants born exposed to opioids and other drugs increased 
from 95 babies in 2013 to 189 babies in 2016. That is an increase of 99 
percent in just 4 years.
  Overdose death rates continue to climb as well. In my home town in 
Huntington, overdoses in 2017 have already surpassed the number in 
2016. In 2017, there have been 1,250 overdoses, an increase of--get 
this--450 percent since 2014, a 450 percent increase in 4 years.
  Just last year, West Virginia added two new HIDTA counties and 
another county's application is pending review.
  HIDTA works. It is evident, with counties across this country 
applying to become HIDTA counties, there is demand. We must increase 
funding for this critical program.
  I urge adoption of this amendment.
  Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from Kentucky (Mr. 
Barr).
  Mr. BARR. Mr. Chairman, I thank Congressman Jenkins for his 
leadership on this important issue.
  Mr. Chairman, I join my colleague from West Virginia in introducing 
this amendment, which seeks to increase funding to the High Intensity 
Drug Trafficking Area program by $6 million. Frankly, that is not 
enough, but it is an improvement over the status quo. This program is a 
proven program, established to help combat the sale and distribution of 
illegal narcotics.
  I am greatly concerned about the current and future well-being of 
this Nation and States like my home Commonwealth of Kentucky, which, 
according to the Centers for Disease Control, has the third highest 
rate of fatalities due to drug overdose in the Nation, falling close 
behind West Virginia and New Hampshire.
  Members of my Sixth Congressional District of Kentucky Drug Abuse 
Task Force, which is comprised of local, State, and Federal experts in 
the fields of law enforcement, drug treatment, recovery, education, and 
prevention efforts, recommended increased funding for HIDTA initiatives 
to help fight this crisis.
  We hear it from our constituents, the heartbreaking stories of loved 
ones who have succumbed to addiction and the heartbreaking stories of 
first responders who are called to the scene of overdose deaths.
  In 2016 alone, HIDTAs took $17.3 billion of illicit drugs off the 
streets and out of our communities, which equates to a return on 
investment of $75 for every $1 in HIDTA budgeted in 2016.
  We can prudently use this return on investment to continue to help 
take narcotic drugs out of our communities while helping to provide 
funding for treatment and prevention efforts for nonviolent drug 
abusers.
  Mr. Chairman, we all personally know someone who has fallen to 
addiction by drugs or even fallen victim to a drug overdose. I ask my 
fellow colleagues to support this important amendment, which would 
truly make a difference in helping our communities fight this alarming 
epidemic.
  It is a workforce development issue. Many of the employers in 
Kentucky--and I know, in West Virginia as well--talk about the labor 
supply difficulties as a result of the addiction crisis, but even worse 
is the human tragedy.
  We know that this works. In Madison County, Kentucky, it has worked. 
Many other counties are applying for this money, and with that, there 
is more demand for more funding.
  Please support this amendment.
  Mr. JENKINS of West Virginia. Mr. Chair, I yield myself as much time 
as I may consume.
  Mr. Chairman, let me close by saying a deep, heartfelt thank you to 
Congressman Barr from Kentucky. He has been a stalwart in fighting this 
drug epidemic and supporting efforts like HIDTA.
  Mr. Chair, I thank the subcommittee chairman, Chairman Graves. He has 
been terrific in Financial Services. When you think about where we 
started in this process, he has brought us light-years away in funding 
for HIDTA.
  Mr. Chair, I thank the chairman of the full committee, Chairman 
Frelinghuysen. He has been terrific in, again, restoring much-needed 
funding.
  This amendment, if adopted, is an important final step needed to 
address this critical issue.
  Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR (Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois). The question is on 
the amendment offered by the gentleman from West Virginia (Mr. 
Jenkins).
  The amendment was agreed to.


              Amendment No. 206 Offered by Ms. Jackson Lee

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 206 
printed in House Report 115-297.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 356, line 21 , after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $500,000)''.
       Page 361, line 17, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $1,000,000)''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 504, the gentlewoman 
from Texas (Ms. Jackson Lee) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Texas.

                              {time}  1600

  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Chairman, my amendment is a very simple 
proposition of adding $500,000 to the Community Development Financial 
Institutions Fund, which supports locally based community organizations 
working to expand economic development, affordable housing, community 
banking, and financial services. The underpinning of this amendment is 
to enhance financial literacy, as seen by many of us in our district, 
as a very important component.
  Let me thank the chairman and ranking member for bringing this 
underlying bill to the floor, and let me indicate that this is a small 
measure, working with all of the agencies, to ensure that the many 
elements of financial documents or financial opportunities that low-
income communities have, they will be informed and literate about how 
much to borrow and, as well, what opportunities they can take advantage 
of.
  Certainly, it will be impactful for those of us in areas where we 
have experienced the severe hurricanes and natural disasters that will 
be impacting our community for a long time.
  The CDFI provides for economic development, job creation, business 
development, and commercial real estate development, affordable 
housing, housing development, home ownership, community development, 
financial services, basic banking services to underserved communities, 
and financial literacy training.
  It also helps Native Americans through providing for financial 
assistance, technical assistance, and training to Native Americans 
CDFIs and other Native American entities proposing to become or create 
CDFIs.
  Through these programs, direct investment is provided, supporting and 
training financial institutions that provide loans, investment 
financial services, and technical assistance to underserved 
populations.
  And I can assure you that the inequities in banking in low-income 
communities, the access to banking clearly suggests that more work 
needs to be done by the CDFI.
  Finally, I would make the point that our overall community 
experienced a major loss of wealth in the last 15 years, starting with 
the 2007-2008 mortgage debacle, which caused a lot of low-income people 
to lose wealth. The importance of helping them with financial literacy, 
I believe, is an important element.
  Mr. Chairman, I ask my colleagues to support the Jackson Lee 
amendment.
  Mr. Chair, thank you for this opportunity to speak in support of the 
Jackson Lee amendment to Division F of H.R. 3354, the ``Interior and 
Environment Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2018.''
  I wish to commend Chairman Graves and Ranking Member Quigley for 
their work in shepherding this legislation to the floor.
  Mr. Chair, the Jackson Lee amendment improves the bill by increasing 
funding by

[[Page H7353]]

$500,000 to the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund 
program for people receiving financial assistance and for the 
responsibilities that this very important subagency has.
  Treasury's Community Development Financial Institutions Fund program 
administers the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, the 
CDFI.
  Through its various programs, the CDFI Fund enables locally-based 
organizations to further goals such as:
  1. economic development;
  2. job creation, business development,
  3. and commercial real estate development;
  4. affordable housing;
  5. housing development and homeownership;
  6. community development financial services;
  7. basic banking services to underserved communities; and
  8. financial literacy training.
  The good news is that this spreads across the Nation, regardless of 
whether you live in an urban center or the rural countryside.
  Through these programs, direct investment is provided supporting and 
training financial institutions that provide loans, investment 
financial services, and technical assistance to underserved populations 
and communities.
  From the perspective of Texas, this is a good thing because it 
emphasizes overall investment and development.
  CDFI also serves Native Americans through by providing financial 
assistance, technical assistance, and training to Native American CDFIs 
and other Native American entities proposing to become or create CDFIs.
  I appreciate very much the support this Committee has been given to 
CDFI and believe that the modest increase in funding provided by the 
Jackson Lee amendment will it enable it expand economic opportunity for 
more communities.
  Finally, let us remember that the loss of wealth in rural communities 
is creating hardships because, like urban dwellers, a substantial 
portion of their wealth, like, was tied to the value of their homes.
  The Jackson Lee amendment is intended to help restore and increase 
financial health among our individual families and communities.
  I urge all Members to support the Jackson Lee amendment.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to the 
amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is recognized for 5 minutes.
  Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I appreciate the gentlewoman's 
thoughts and advocacy for communities and developing them, and 
certainly our thoughts and prayers go to her and her constituencies 
that have been impacted through the recent hurricanes, as we do with 
Florida and the other Southeastern States.
  This is just one of those tough decisions that there are only limited 
resources that we had to work with, so we had to make some tough 
decisions. In fact, there are many areas in this bill that I wish we 
could provide additional resources for.
  But I am glad that we could take this from what was given to us 
originally, as zeroed out by the President in his recommendation, and 
we were able to begin backfilling it for these needed loans for 
communities to allow for some of the development to occur and small 
businesses to be able to thrive.
  So I know that, working with Ranking Member Quigley, we did what we 
could, and we both wish we could have done more. And I know, as we move 
forward through the process, we will continue looking at this.
  But, again, let me close by saying that I certainly understand the 
gentlewoman's thoughts on this, and I know that all of the committee 
supports her sentiment in this case. But because of the reasons I 
stated, the limited resources, and the tough decisions we had to make, 
I have to oppose this amendment and urge everyone to vote ``no.''
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. While, I am clearly disappointed in the response, I 
am glad that I offered this amendment. I think the position is wrong as 
it relates to the needs to help individuals who have already suffered 
an enormous blow.
  In particular, financial literacy is an aspect that is certainly 
needed in low-income communities, and we can see the impact of not 
having the understanding of various financial opportunities. And the 
CDFI has done that, and particularly supporting Native Americans among 
many others.
  So I would ask my colleagues to support the Jackson Lee amendment 
because it is not a lot and it would add to this aspect of financial 
literacy, which we need.
  There are a lot of products that are out there, and I guess I might 
say that, as much as we have tried, with the Community Reinvestment 
Act, to assist or to encourage or to push our financial institutions to 
lend to our many diverse groups, low-income groups and minority 
populations, it is still a problem in getting access to funds by low-
income communities.
  So the CDFI and the focused addition that I would add would, in fact, 
make a major difference, and I would ask my colleagues to support the 
amendment.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I will close with this. The 
gentlewoman won't be the first to ever be disappointed in my response, 
I can assure you that.
  But let me just point out for the House here, she is asking for a 
half-a-million-dollar increase in this fund when, in fact, we increased 
it by $176 million over the President's request. So I think that is 
moving far away from where we started, and to a better spot. And while 
I wish we could provide a little bit more, we can't.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge a ``no'' vote, and I yield back the balance of 
my time.
  The Acting CHAIR (Mr. Franks of Arizona). The question is on the 
amendment offered by the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. Jackson Lee).
  The amendment was rejected.


               Amendment No. 207 Offered by Mr. Huizenga

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 207 
printed in House Report 115-297.
  Mr. HUIZENGA. Mr. Chair, I rise to offer an amendment to suspend 
implementation of section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Act.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       At the end of division D (before the short title), insert 
     the following:
       Sec. __.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to implement, administer, or enforce a rule issued 
     pursuant to section 13(p) of the Securities Exchange Act of 
     1934.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 504, the gentleman 
from Michigan (Mr. Huizenga) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Michigan.
  Mr. HUIZENGA. Mr. Chairman, this misguided provision in Dodd-Frank 
requires the Securities and Exchange Commission to mandate that public 
companies disclose whether so-called ``conflict minerals'' they use in 
their products benefit armed groups in the Democratic Republic of the 
Congo and its nine adjoining countries.
  Despite its best intentions, section 1502 has been ineffective and, 
in some cases, has been shown to have increased violence is central 
Africa. That is why this suspension that I am proposing passed the 
House last year as an amendment to the FSGG appropriations bill, and a 
full repeal of section 1502 passed the House this Congress as part of 
the Financial CHOICE Act.
  Conflict minerals refer to tin, tungsten, tantalum, and gold, which 
have been used in a variety of products, from cell phones, cosmetics, 
jewelry, footwear, apparel, and even auto suppliers located in west 
Michigan.
  Mr. Chairman, the breadth of voices opposing section 1502 is 
remarkable, and I would like to start with those that matter most. For 
too long, the people of central Africa have been overlooked in this 
debate, even though they are the ones who suffer from Dodd-Frank's 
unintended consequences.
  I include in the Record an open letter from 70 Congolese leaders and 
other regional experts.

                             An Open Letter

       Dear governments, companies, non-governmental 
     organisations, and other stakeholders implicated in efforts 
     of various kinds related to the issue of `conflict minerals',
       In early 2014, two international industry giants--Intel and 
     Apple--issued refined corporate social responsibility 
     policies for minerals sourced in the eastern Democratic 
     Republic of the Congo (DRC). The announcements followed an 
     unprecedented wave of

[[Page H7354]]

     guidelines, law-making, and initiatives over the past few 
     years to `clean up' the eastern DRC's mining sector, and were 
     met with widespread praise.
       Perhaps the most widely publicised of these efforts is US 
     legislation known as Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Act, 
     which asks all companies registered on the US stock market to 
     reveal their supply chains to the Securities and Exchange 
     Commission (SEC) when sourcing minerals from the eastern DRC 
     or neighbouring countries. Canada is in the advanced stages 
     of developing similar legislation, and many other countries 
     are looking closely at the issue. The European Union has 
     introduced a voluntary conflict minerals regulation scheme 
     for all member states, and the United Nations (UN) and 
     Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) 
     have developed guidelines on sourcing natural resources in 
     high-risk areas such as the eastern DRC.
       These efforts primarily target artisanal (or `informal') 
     mining in the eastern DRC, due to widespread international 
     recognition that so-called conflict minerals (most notably 
     tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold) produced by artisanal 
     mining in this part of the world have helped conflict actors 
     generate revenue to finance their operations in the DRC over 
     the past two decades.


                             The Situation

       Despite successes of activists in shaping policy, the 
     conflict minerals campaign fundamentally misunderstands the 
     relationship between minerals and conflict in the eastern 
     DRC. First, while the minerals help perpetuate the conflict, 
     they are not its cause. National and regional political 
     struggles over power and influence as well as issues such as 
     access to land and questions of citizenship and identity are 
     just some of the more structural drivers of conflict. The 
     ability to exploit and profit from minerals is often a means 
     to finance military operations to address these issues, 
     rather than an end in itself. Internal UN assessments, for 
     instance, show that only 8% of the DRC's conflicts are linked 
     to minerals, and specific motivations vary greatly across the 
     vast array of different armed groups.
       Second, armed groups are not dependent on mineral revenue 
     for their existence. The eastern DRC is a fully militarised 
     economy, in which minerals are just one resource among many 
     that armed groups--and the national army FARDC--can levy 
     financing from. The M23, until recently the most powerful 
     non-state armed group in DRC, never sought physical control 
     over mining activity.
       Moreover, few local stakeholders have been included in on-
     going international policy-making, and as a result realities 
     on the ground have not always been taken into account. 
     Setting up the required systems and procedures to regularly 
     access and audit thousands of artisanal mining sites in 
     isolated and hard-to-reach locations spread across an area 
     almost twice the size of France would be a challenge for any 
     government. In the eastern DRC, where road infrastructure is 
     poor to non-existent and state capacity desperately low, the 
     enormity of the task is hard to overstate. But in demanding 
     that companies prove the origin of minerals sourced in the 
     eastern DRC or neighbouring countries before systems able to 
     provide such proof have been put in place, conflict minerals 
     activists and resultant legislation--in particular Section 
     1502 of the Dodd-Frank Act--inadvertently incentivize buyers 
     on the international market to pull out of the region 
     altogether and source their minerals elsewhere.


                               The Result

       As a result, the conflict minerals movement has yet to lead 
     to meaningful improvement on the ground, and has had a number 
     of unintended and damaging consequences. Nearly four years 
     after the passing of the Dodd-Frank Act, only a small 
     fraction of the hundreds of mining sites in the eastern DRC 
     have been reached by traceability or certification efforts. 
     The rest remain beyond the pale, forced into either 
     illegality or collapse as certain international buyers have 
     responded to the legislation by going `Congo-free'.
       This in turn has driven many miners into the margins of 
     legality (for instance, feeding into smuggling rackets), 
     where armed actors return through the loopholes of 
     transnational regulation. Others have simply lost their jobs, 
     and in areas where mining has ceased, local economies have 
     suffered. To put this in context, an estimated eight to ten 
     million people across the country are dependent on artisanal 
     mining for their livelihood. Some former miners have returned 
     to subsistence agriculture, but persisting insecurity levels 
     leave them in abject poverty facing dire living conditions, 
     in fear of missing harvests due to displacement. Others have 
     been prompted to join militias as a means to quick cash in 
     the absence of other opportunities; a particularly perverse 
     impact, when one considers the intentions of the movement.
       Alongside the impact on mining communities and local 
     economies, several armed groups have responded by turning to 
     different businesses such as trading in charcoal, marijuana, 
     palm oil, soap, or consumer goods. Those remaining in the 
     mining sector have largely traded mineral exploitation on 
     site for mineral taxation a few steps down the supply chain, 
     operating numerous roadblocks that can bring in millions of 
     dollars a year. Others are reported to have sent in family 
     members or civilian allies to run business for them on site, 
     while they remain safely at a distance.
       For the few mining sites fortunate enough to be reached by 
     Joint Assessment Teams responsible for determining their 
     `conflict-free' status, these teams have been unable to 
     provide the regular, three-month validation visits envisaged 
     in legislation. There is an additional delay of several 
     months following these visits before the Congolese Ministry 
     of Mines reviews and approves the assessment at the national 
     level. Given the speed at which situations can change in 
     volatile environments, infrequent assessments and lengthy 
     delays raise concerns over the accuracy of certification and 
     the credibility of the system.
       More worrying still, multinational corporations such as 
     Apple and Intel are auditing smelters to determine the 
     conflict-free status of the minerals they source, and not the 
     mines themselves. As smelters are located outside of the DRC 
     and audits are not always conducted by third parties, these 
     processes raise further concerns over whether conflict-free 
     certifications reflect production realities.
       By far the most advanced site in terms of producing 
     `conflict-free' minerals for sale to the international market 
     is Kalimbi, a tin mining area home to externally-financed 
     initiatives running an industry-led bagging-and-tagging 
     scheme called iTSCi. Yet even here, despite the establishment 
     of a `closed pipeline' from mine to exportation, the mine 
     still suffers from the sporadic influence of armed actors, 
     and miners are made to bear the additional costs of 
     `conflict-free' schemes. This raises further concerns over 
     the credibility of the system in place, and its suitability 
     for the scale-up and expansion to other, more remote mine 
     sites currently underway. Coupled with slow progress in 
     implementation, the trend towards the monopolisation of 
     `conflict-free' supply chain initiatives, in particular 
     traceability by iTSCi, is economically damaging to local 
     populations since it currently excludes and isolates the 
     overwhelming majority of mining communities from legal access 
     to international markets.


                            The Alternative

       There is broad consensus for the need to clean up the 
     eastern Congo's minerals sector, yet much disagreement about 
     the international community's current model for achieving 
     this goal. As such, efforts to improve transparency in the 
     eastern DRC's mineral supply chains should continue. Yet a 
     more nuanced and holistic approach that takes into account 
     the realities of the eastern DRC's mining sector and the 
     complexity of the conflict is needed. To this end, we make 
     the following five recommendations:
       Improve consultation with government and communities: 
     Congolese government and civil society were poorly consulted 
     on Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Act prior to its passing, 
     and as a result many were unaware of its implications. The 
     few who were consulted were unanimously pro-Dodd-Frank, 
     creating additional conflicts on local levels where 
     endorsement and dissent compete. More Congolese voices must 
     be listened to, and the local context and power structures 
     taken into account. This would ensure greater understanding 
     of the local context and better harmonisation with existing 
     national and regional initiatives, such as the International 
     Conference of the Great Lakes Region's (ICGLR) Regional 
     Initiative against the Illegal Exploitation of Natural 
     Resources.
       Work towards meaningful reform: The audit process should be 
     designed to improve policies and practices rather than to 
     just provide window-dressing. The dominant belief that static 
     oversight and validation processes ensure `conflict-free' 
     mineral trade is misplaced given the volatile security 
     situation in most of the eastern DRC. Both mines and smelters 
     should be regularly inspected and the time period between 
     inspection and certification minimized. Where this is not 
     feasible, additional waivers or similar measures should not 
     be ruled out.
       Create incentives towards better practice: Legal frameworks 
     must be supported by real projects on the ground that can 
     meet their requirements. If this is not possible--which is 
     clearly still the case today, nearly four years after the 
     passing of Dodd-Frank--then transition periods must be 
     extended and the lowering of excessively high standards for 
     `conflict-free' minerals should be considered. Similarly, 
     former conflict actors should be incentivised where 
     appropriate to join new `conflict-free' schemes. This may 
     help avoid the eventual subversion or infiltration of the 
     `clean' system put in place, as has been seen to date.
       Promote fair competition: Regulation must be based on 
     competition that allows not only international businesses but 
     also Congolese producers to influence (i.e. increase) local 
     price schemes. This in turn would encourage a regime that 
     ensures minimum wages which mining cooperatives can guarantee 
     to their members based on their increased leverage on the 
     price fluctuation.
       Widen the lens: Root causes of conflict such as land, 
     identity, and political contest in the context of a 
     militarized economy, rather than a single focus on minerals, 
     must be considered by advocates seeking to reduce conflict 
     violence. Furthermore, efforts to eradicate conflict minerals 
     should not overlook the fact that artisanal mining is a key 
     livelihood in the eastern DRC that holds as much potential to 
     help steer the region away from conflict as it does to 
     contribute towards it. More supportive measures are needed--
     such as those found in the earlier 2009

[[Page H7355]]

     draft of the US Conflict Minerals Act--that can help capture 
     the economic potential of artisanal mining. Finally, other 
     critical challenges such as access to credit, technical 
     knowledge, hazardous working conditions, and environmental 
     degradation should not be ignored by multinational 
     corporations if they seek to improve business practices and 
     increase transparency in their supply chains.
       So far, progress has been made in producing more ethical 
     products for consumers, but stakeholders have not yet 
     proceeded to improve the lives of Congolese people, nor 
     address the negative impact current `conflict-free' 
     initiatives are having. If the conflict minerals agenda is to 
     lead to positive change on the ground, legislation passed by 
     national governments and steps such as those outlined by 
     Apple or Intel need to be grounded in a more holistic 
     approach that is better tailored to local realities. Failure 
     to do so will continue to seriously limit the ability of 
     conflict minerals initiatives to improve the daily lives of 
     the eastern Congolese and their neighbours. Worse, these 
     initiatives will risk contributing to, rather than 
     alleviating, the very conflicts they set out to address.


                          List of Signatories

       1. Aloys Tegera (Director, POLE Institute Goma)
       2. Ann Laudati (Lecturer at the School for Geographical 
     Sciences, University of Bristol)
       3. Ashley Leinweber (Assistant Professor of Political 
     Science, Missouri State University)
       4. Ben Radley (Researcher, International Institute of 
     Social Studies & `Obama's Law' Producer)
       5. Bonnie Campbell (Professor of Political Science, 
     Universite du Quebec a Montreal)
       6. Christiane Kayser (Independent Analyst & Civil Peace 
     Service-Bread for the World mobile team)
       7. Christoph Vogel (Researcher, University of Zurich & 
     Independent analyst/writer)
       8. Cyprien Birhingingwa (Executive Secretary, COSOC-GL & 
     Coordinator of CENADEP Kivu)
       9. Daniel Rothenberg (Professor of Practice, School of 
     Politics and Global Studies, Arizona State University)
       10. David Rieff (Independent Author and Commentator).
       11. Deo Buuma (Executive Secretary, Action pour la Paix et 
     la Concorde--APC, Bukavu)
       12. Didier de Failly s.j. (Directeur, Mason de Mines du 
     Kivu, Bukavu)
       13. Dominic Johnson (Africa Editor and Deputy Foreign 
     Editor, die tageszeitung)
       14. Dorothea Hilhorst (Professor of Humanitarian Aid and 
     Reconstruction, Wageningen University)
       15. Emmanuel Shamavu (Director, APRODEPED, Bukavu)
       16. Eric Kajemba (Coordinator, Observatoire Gouvernance et 
     Paix, Bukavu)
       17. Esther Marijnen (Researcher, Institute for European 
     Studies/Vrije Universiteit Brussel)
       18. Evariste Mfaume (Executive Director, ``Solidarite des 
     Volontaires pour l'Humanite'')
       19. Gabriel Kamundala (Researcher, CEGEMI & Universite 
     Catholique de Bukavu)
       20. Ganza Buroko (Cultural Operator & Coordinator of 
     Yole!Africa, Goma).
       21. Godefroid Ka Mana (Professor, ULPGL Goma & UEA Bukavu & 
     Universite Kasavubu Boma)
       22. Godefroid Muzalia (Professor, Institut Superieur 
     Pedagogique de Bukavu)
       23. Henning Tamm (Postdoctoral Prize Research Fellow, 
     Nuffield College, University of Oxford)
       24. Herbert Weiss (Emeritus Professor of Political Science, 
     City University of New York)
       25. James Smith (Associate Professor of Anthropology, 
     University of California/Davis)
       26. Jean Ziegler (Former UN Special Rapporteur for the 
     Right to Food and Professor at University of Geneva)
       27. Jeroen Cuvelier (Postdoctoral Researcher, Wageningen 
     University and Ghent University)
       28. John Kanyoni (Independent Consultant and Vice-President 
     of the Congolese Chamber of Mines)
       29. Josaphat Musamba (Assistant Professor, Universite Simon 
     Kimbangu of Bukavu)
       30. Joschka Havenith (Independent Researcher and 
     Consultant, Cologne).
       31. Jose Diemel (Researcher, Special Chair for Humanitarian 
     Aid & Reconstruction, Wageningen University)
       32. Joshua Walker (Postdoctoral Research Fellow, University 
     of the Witwatersrand)
       33. Josue Mukulumanya (President of the South Kivu mining 
     cooperatives board GECOMISKI)
       34. Justine Brabant (Independent Researcher and Journalist)
       35. Juvenal Munubo (Member of Parliament, Democratic 
     Republic of the Congo)
       36. Juvenal Twaibu (Director, Centre Independant de 
     Recherches et d'Etudes Strategiques au Kivu)
       37. Ken Matthysen (Researcher on artisanal mining in 
     eastern Congo, Antwerp)
       38. Kizito Mushizi (Member of Parliament, Democratic 
     Republic of the Congo)
       39. Koen Vlassenroot (Director, Conflict Research Group & 
     Professor, Ghent University)
       40. Kris Berwouts (Independent Consultant and Author).
       41. Kristof Titeca (Assistant Professor, University of 
     Antwerp)
       42. Laura Seay (Assistant Professor of Government, Colby 
     College)
       43. Ley Uwera (Independent Journalist and Author, Goma)
       44. Loochi Muzaliwa (Programme Coordinator, Life and Peace 
     Institute DRC)
       45. Micheline Mwendike (Activist, on behalf of LUCHA--Lutte 
     pour le Changement/Struggle for Change)
       46. Manuel Wollschlager (Conseiller Technique, ZFD-AGEH in 
     Bukavu)
       47. Milli Lake (Assistant Professor, Arizona State 
     University)
       48. Nicole Eggers (Assistant Professor of African History, 
     Loyola University New Orleans)
       49. Odile Bulabula (Deputy Coordinator, RIO--Network for 
     Organisational Innovation, Bukavu)
       50. Padraic MacOireachtaigh (Regional Advocacy and 
     Communications Officer, Jesuit Refugee Service).
       51. Pamela Faber (Researcher, St Catherine's College, 
     University of Oxford)
       52. Passy Mubalama (Independent Journalist and Author, 
     Goma)
       53. Paul Muhindo Mulemberi (Member of Parliament, 
     Democratic Republic of the Congo)
       54. Paul-Romain Namegabe (Professor of Law, Director of 
     CEGEMI, Universite Catholique de Bukavu)
       55. Paulin Bishakabalya (Director of Humanitarian 
     Assistance and Development Committee, Bukavu)
       56. Peer Schouten (Postdoctoral Researcher, University of 
     Gothenburg)
       57. Phil Clark (Reader in Comparative and International 
     Politics, SOAS / University of London)
       58. Rachel Niehuus (Postdoctoral Researcher at University 
     of California, San Francisco)
       59. Rachel Strohm (Researcher in Political Science, 
     University of Berkeley)
       60. Raf Custers (Independent Journalist and Author on 
     Mining).
       61. Remy Kasindi (Director, Centre for Research and 
     Strategic Studies in Central Africa, Bukavu)
       62. Rodrigue Rukumbuzi (Coordinator, AGAPE-Hauts Plateaux, 
     Uvira)
       63. Rosebell Kagumire (Independent Consultant and Blogger, 
     Kampala/Addis Ababa)
       64. Salammbo Mulonda Bulambo (Director, PIAP, Bukavu)
       65. Sara Geenen (Postdoctoral Researcher, Institute of 
     Development Policy, Antwerp University)
       66. Sekombi Katondolo (Director, Radio Mutaani, Goma)
       67. Severine Autesserre (Assistant Professor, Barnard 
     College, Columbia University)
       68. Thomas Idolwa Tchomba (Consultant and Mining Expert, 
     Goma)
       69. Timothy Makori (Researcher, Department of Anthropology, 
     University of Toronto)
       70. Timothy Raeymaekers (Lecturer in Political Geography, 
     University of Zurich)
       71. Yvette Mwanza (President of the Mining Committee, 
     Federation des Entreprises Congolaises North Kivu)
       72. Zacharie Bulakali (Independent Researcher on mining in 
     eastern Congo).
       All the signatories listed express their support to the 
     open letter in its above form but not necessarily approve of 
     accompanying opinion pieces and/or explanatory notes, which 
     remain their respective authors' views.

  Mr. HUIZENGA. Mr. Chair, they state in the letter that section 1502 
provisions ``. . . inadvertently incentivize buyers on the 
international market to pull out of the region altogether and source 
their minerals elsewhere.
  ``As a result, the conflict minerals movement has yet to lead to 
meaningful improvement on the ground, and has had a number of 
unintended and damaging consequences.''
  Dodd-Frank's impact on African miners may seem unimportant to many 
rich-country activists, but in the Congo, it has been the question of 
life or death.
  According to a Washington Post article entitled ``How a well-
intentioned U.S. law left Congolese miners jobless,'' section 1502 
``set off a chain of events that has propelled millions of Congolese 
miners and their families deeper into poverty.''
  The article goes on to share the story of how a Congolese teenager 
could no longer feed himself after Dodd-Frank ravaged the country's 
mining sector, forcing the young man to actually join an armed group; 
the outcome diametrically opposed in the goal of section 1502.
  Mr. Chairman, no one can claim that these effects were unforeseeable. 
In fact, in a letter to the SEC commenting on section 1502, leaders 
from three Congolese mining cooperatives predicted that the conflict 
minerals rule would lead to a devastating boycott.
  These miners wrote: ``We cannot continue to suffer any longer. Do we 
now have to choose between dying by a bullet or starving to death?''
  I ask my colleagues to remember the Congolese aren't alone in their 
suffering. The SEC's rules apply to nine

[[Page H7356]]

other nations as if they were all one single country. Section 1502 
treats over 230 million Africans living in 10 distinct nations as one 
undifferentiated group.
  Dodd-Frank's supporters will say that at this point, some countries 
neighboring Congo may help smuggle minerals on behalf of armed groups, 
which is why we need to paint with such a broad brush. But I would ask 
my colleagues to name another example where a country's economy and 
each of its neighbors is targeted due to a presumed smuggling risk.
  Do we design Russia sanctions to apply to each of its 14 adjoining 
countries, too?
  Do Iranian sanctions implicate all seven of its neighbors?
  Perhaps advocates for section 1502 believe that there is no smuggling 
from Russia and Iran, but the real issue seems to be this: Dodd-Frank 
supporters have no problem treating Africans differently from other 
regions of the world.
  I find that troubling. So now let's consider implementation of 
section 1502 itself.
  In April of this year, the GAO reported that section 1502 has 
produced little meaningful information on conflict mineral sourcing. It 
found that more than half of the companies in 2016 couldn't even 
determine what country their minerals came from. Most importantly, 
virtually none of the companies could tell whether their minerals 
benefited armed groups, a conclusion that echoed GAO's findings from 
2015 and 2014 as well.
  No wonder companies can't figure this out, Mr. Chairman. Even the 
Department of Commerce has reported that it is unable to determine 
whether smelters around the world use minerals traceable to armed 
groups. In other words, Dodd-Frank is asking U.S. companies--some of 
which are very small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in large 
corporations' supply chains--to produce information that even the 
Federal Government can't provide.
  As if that weren't enough, the courts also struck down parts of 
section 1502 for violating companies' First Amendment rights.
  The Trump administration's SEC has had enough of section 1502 
failures, and is now reexamining the conflict mineral rule. The State 
Department is now conducting a review to see how responsible sourcing 
can be undertaken more effectively. The amendment I am offering today 
would suspend section 1502 while the administration completes its 
assessment.
  Mr. Chairman, the facts I have laid out on section 1502 aren't 
partisan, and a suspension shouldn't be either. So let me close with 
the words of Barack Obama's Securities and Exchange Commission Chair, 
Mary Jo White, who, in 2013, said: ``Seeking to improve safety in mines 
for workers or to end horrible human rights atrocities in the DRC are 
compelling objectives, which, as a citizen, I wholeheartedly share. But 
as Chair of the Securities and Exchange Commission, I must question, as 
a policy matter, using the Federal securities laws and the SEC's powers 
of mandatory disclosure to accomplish these goals.''
  It should tell us something when even Democrats' own Securities and 
Exchange Commission Chair warns that Dodd-Frank overreached on conflict 
minerals. A suspension would be something that Republicans and 
Democrats can agree on, and I urge my colleagues to support this 
amendment.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Ms. MOORE. Mr. Chairman, I claim the time in opposition to the 
amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman from Wisconsin is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Ms. MOORE. Oh my, my, my, Mr. Chairman, and my good friend from 
Michigan. The fact of the matter is that section 1502 is, in fact, 
working. The GAO report that Mr. Huizenga referred to actually said 
that the civil war and conflict is, in fact, diminishing as section 
1502 is being implemented. It is working better and sooner than I 
thought it would be.
  Just a little bit of a refresher course for you, Mr. Chairman. The 
minerals contained in consumer electronics that we all use--TVs, cell 
phones--are fueling war and conflict in the Congo. And I am not talking 
about a little skirmish here. I am talking about, we are funding armed 
militias, and it is a civil war on a scale of deaths that compare with 
World War II, and notable for its brutality, its savagery, its 
mutilation, rape.
  I can tell you that our good GOP friends say that it is a laudable 
goal to stop these civil wars, but it just doesn't belong in securities 
law; the logic being the transparency doesn't belong in security law.
  Oh, okay. Well, I can tell you that companies find that it is 
material, a security term of art, whether their brand is tarnished with 
literally the blood of children and enslaved workers that are standing 
there, I would suspect, with some of these Congolese who want section 
1502 to go away, who are running these armed militias for profit. So do 
consumers and so do investors. Hence, the rise of socially-conscious 
mutual funds that are regulated by the SEC.
  I notice that my comrades have not introduced--there's nothing in 
this amendment that would provide for ending this kind of civil war on 
the scale of World War II in their amendment.
  I want to say, because of the United States' leadership on conflict 
minerals, the EU and China are enacting their own versions of 
implementing prohibitions against the receipt of conflict minerals. 
This amendment puts America last in world leadership.
  I do realize the gentleman had the right to close, but his time 
having been consumed, I will go on to report to you, Mr. Chairman, that 
more than 75 percent of the world's smelters for the four minerals now 
have passed conflict-free audits. Companies are putting this in place 
and they are finding that they are happy with it; that the costs of 
implementing it are less than they thought it would be, much less than 
they thought it would be; and they are receiving a premium for these 
metals if they can, in fact, report that they are conflict-free.

                              {time}  1615

  According to the United Nations, as of 2016, over three-quarters of 
3T miners surveyed in eastern Congo are working in mines where there is 
no armed group standing over them. That is according to an independent 
study.
  Today, 78 percent of the world's smelters for the four minerals have 
now passed conflict-free audits, or 253 smelters in total. The record 
is abundantly clear. Section 1502 is working.
  Now, he talked about Congolese leaders who don't like it. These are 
people who are profiting from the armed conflict, but there are 
Congolese communities and leaders who support section 1502 because they 
are seeing the improvements in security and rule of law.
  For example, Justine Masika Bihamba, the coordinator of Synergy of 
Women for Victims of Sexual Violence says: ``Ten years ago, we were 
under the de facto control of armed groups. Today, let's admit we are a 
long way from that. And if we are honest, that is in part because of 
Dodd-Frank.''
  Bishop Nicolas Djomo came before our committee and said: ``We urge 
the U.S. business community to account for the gruesome social costs of 
the illicit mining as they calculate their cost for compliance with 
section 1502.''
  There is a moral dimension to this that we cannot ignore. If we want 
to make America great again, let's not cede our moral authority on this 
issue.
  Mr. Chairman, I would ask my colleagues to vote against this 
amendment, and I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Michigan (Mr. Huizenga).
  The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the ayes 
appeared to have it.
  Ms. MOORE. Mr. Chairman, I demand a recorded vote.
  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further 
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Michigan 
will be postponed.
  It is now in order to consider amendment No. 208 printed in House 
Report 115-297.


                 Amendment No. 211 Offered by Mr. Heck

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 211 
printed in House Report 115-297.
  Mr. HECK. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.

[[Page H7357]]

  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 348, line 18, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $3,800,000)''.
       Page 447, line 13, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $3,800,000)''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 504, the gentleman 
from Washington (Mr. Heck) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Washington.
  Mr. HECK. Mr. Chairman, I rise today to offer a bipartisan amendment 
in support of the Small Business Administration's ScaleUp program. Like 
many of you, one of my favorite things to do when I am back home is to 
visit local businesses, businesses like Beech Tree Woodworks in 
Olympia, which just invested in some amazing new cutting-edge 
machinery; or Zoe Juice Bar in Olympia, which opened with just four 
employees not that long ago, and they now have more than a dozen, and 
they are still growing.
  These businesses have all expanded with the help of SBA's ScaleUp 
program. ScaleUp is a program that gives small businesses the tools 
they need to become not so small anymore. It works within existing 
community networks to provide the education and technical assistance 
and access to capital that small businesses need to grow.
  I include in the Record an article from my hometown newspaper which 
discusses the positive impact ScaleUp has had on our community.

   Why Is Trump's Pro-Business Administration Hurting Businesses in 
                            Thurston County?

                            (By Rolf Boone)

       President Donald Trump once declared that he would be the 
     ``greatest jobs president that God ever created.''
       After a recent decision to cut a business owner training 
     program in Thurston County--and 14 other locations around the 
     country--some might question Trump's claim.
       ``The program was under review by the Trump Administration 
     and the decision was made to let the program expire in its 
     entirety at the end of September,'' said Melanie Norton, a 
     spokeswoman for the Northwest region of the U.S. Small 
     Business Administration.
       Locally, the program was known as ScaleUp Thurston, a 
     multi-week course that helped businesses beyond the start-up 
     stage grow.
       The two-year-old program was based in Lacey at the Center 
     for Business & Innovation, a partnership of the Thurston 
     Economic Development Council, its business resource center 
     and South Puget Sound Community College. Celia Nightingale is 
     the director of the center.
       ScaleUp received about $200,000 a year from the SBA, she 
     said.
       The decision to discontinue the program clearly was not 
     data driven because it produced results, with businesses 
     increasing their revenue and adding employees, Nightingale 
     said.
       ``I find it hard to believe,'' said Kevin Leneker about the 
     decision. Leneker is chief executive of Olympia-based Single 
     Handed Consulting, a vocational rehabilitation business that 
     helps injured workers return to work. After participating in 
     ScaleUp in 2016, his revenue grew 57 percent and he increased 
     his staff to 25 from 10.
       The course taught him to step back and think bigger picture 
     about the future of his business.
       ``Work on your business, not just in it,'' he said.
       Jason Phillips, owner of Zoe Juice Bar in Olympia, also 
     took part in ScaleUp.
       Phillips said the course allowed him to fine-tune his 
     business systems and procedures. It also introduced him to 
     other business owners and the importance of networking. His 
     juice bar opened in December 2013, followed by a production 
     space for cold-pressed juice in Tumwater. His business opened 
     with four employees. He now has 12-14, he said.
       ``It's really disappointing,'' he said. ``It was a great 
     resource for small businesses, and small business represents 
     jobs and families''
       ``You feel like you had a friend in your corner,'' he added 
     about ScaleUp.
       ScaleUp may have been viewed as a duplication of services 
     already offered by the SBA's Small Business Development 
     Center, Nightingale said.
       Leneker praised the services of the Small Business 
     Development Center, but he thinks there was little overlap.
       ``Not even close,'' he said.
       Nightingale said the current ScaleUp program will run 
     through Sept. 29. After that, the plan is to seek grants and 
     corporate sponsorships to keep it going, she said.
       Perhaps the city of Lacey will step up with some funding.
       Lacey City Council recently learned about ScaleUp's end 
     after Councilwoman Rachel Young, a small business owner who 
     serves on the Thurston EDC board, reported the news to a 
     stunned council on July 13. That led business owner and Mayor 
     Andy Ryder to wonder aloud about possibly funding the 
     program.
       It wouldn't be the first time the city has stepped up when 
     the federal government would not. The city led the creation 
     and funding of the Veterans Services Center Hub.

  Mr. HECK. SBA currently plans to phase out this program at the end of 
this fiscal year--in other words, in 17 more days. After hearing from 
so many people whom it has benefited, I felt compelled to offer this 
amendment which will provide the funding to continue ScaleUp for 
another year.
  ScaleUp communities can be found at every corner of America: in 
Texas, Pennsylvania, Florida, Maine, Virginia, Ohio, Illinois, 
Arkansas, Tennessee, and Arizona. I thank my friend from Arizona, Ms. 
McSally, for working with me on this bipartisan effort.
  Mr. Chairman, we are in a tough budget environment. I get that. But 
that makes it all the more important that we focus on programs that 
have been proven to be a good investment, programs like ScaleUp.
  Mr. Chair, I urge the adoption of this amendment, and I reserve the 
balance of my time.
  Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to the amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Ohio is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Chairman, I rise, as I say, in opposition to this 
amendment. The proposed amendment offered by my colleague from 
Washington would increase funds appropriated for the Small Business 
Administration's entrepreneurial development programs by $3.8 million 
for the purpose of restoring funding to the SBA's ScaleUp initiative, 
which the SBA itself discontinued in fiscal year 2017.
  The ScaleUp initiative was never congressionally authorized, and, as 
such, has never been subject to congressional oversight.
  As the chairman of the Committee on Small Business, I am a staunch 
supporter of the SBA's efforts to increase access to training and 
counseling to our developing small businesses and to the next 
generation of entrepreneurs. It is also my responsibility to ensure 
that these programs are run efficiently and in the best interest of the 
American taxpayer. They are actually the ones footing the bill for 
every one of these programs. That is why, even though it can sometimes 
be tough, we have to balance these programs with limited budgets and 
always being aware that we have now a $20 trillion debt hanging over 
our heads.
  As the ScaleUp initiative has never been subject to a congressional 
hearing nor congressional review, I believe it would be irresponsible 
to authorize taxpayer dollars to fund this program and must 
respectfully oppose this amendment.
  Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to do the same, and I reserve the 
balance of my time.
  Mr. HECK. Mr. Chairman, the fact of the matter is that our 
constituents were only informed 5 short weeks ago that ScaleUp was 
ending in 2 months. This amendment is the only recourse available given 
that very short timeframe, and because evidence-based measures of 
ScaleUp performance are all very positive, none of us had any reason to 
believe that the program would not continue, and the announcement came 
as a complete surprise to all of us.
  The fact of the matter is, I don't agree with the decision of the 
Small Business Administration, and it is our job as a function of our 
oversight and check and balance responsibility to pursue our 
disagreement, as it were, because their decision flies in the face of 
the evidence.
  I would argue that the appropriation process exists so that Congress 
can exercise this independent oversight of the spending priorities of 
the executive branch and assert itself in exactly this sort of a 
circumstance.
  Mr. Chair, I would dearly love to work with the chair of the Small 
Business Committee on legislation to specifically authorize the ScaleUp 
program, but that is a longer term issue. This program will end at the 
end of this month if we don't act now, taking away a very valuable 
program that is working--evidence, metrics, measurable. It is getting 
the job done.
  Why wouldn't we pass this amendment, it is fully offset, there is no 
increased spending here, and have the existing program continue while 
we work on a more permanent solution.

[[Page H7358]]

  Mr. Chair, with all due respect, I would urge my colleagues to 
support this amendment in the name of helping small businesses grow. 
Two out of every three jobs created in America are created by small 
businesses. This program, ScaleUp, has been proven to work. There is 
not one shred of evidence that has been offered here today to suggest 
it isn't doing the job for which it was intended to do.
  Please, support this amendment, support small businesses, support 
your check and balance responsibility, support the creation of jobs.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Chair, I appreciate the gentleman from Washington's comments, 
and, as chair of the House Small Business Committee, I will certainly 
be willing to work with him and his staff to see if there is any 
ability down the road to reconsider this program.
  That being said, we do have a new administration who has looked at 
this and many other programs very carefully. Being aware, again, that 
we have a considerable deficit every year and a $20 trillion debt 
hanging over our heads, something has to go, and there are a whole 
bunch of somethings in the budget that this administration is looking 
at because they are serious about this.
  I definitely agree with the gentleman's comments about the importance 
of small businesses and promoting them in this country. About half of 
the people in America in the private sector work for, by definition, a 
small business. About 70 percent of the new jobs created in America are 
created by small businesses. There are 29 million small businesses all 
across America. They are contained in all 435 of our congressional 
districts. They are absolutely key.
  We have a history, and I think most Members who deal with the Small 
Business Committee realize this, of working in a bipartisan manner--the 
ranking member, Nydia Velazquez who is from New York, myself now the 
chair, and I have been the ranking member under her in the past, so we 
really do work together on these, as do the other members of the 
committee.
  We are willing to take a look at this down the road, but I would just 
have to reiterate my initial comment here is that I have to urge my 
colleagues, at this point, to oppose this amendment along with the 
administration and the Small Business Administration itself, which does 
oppose this amendment.
  Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Washington (Mr. Heck).
  The amendment was rejected.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Chair understands that amendment No. 212 will 
not be offered.
  The Chair understands that amendment No. 213 will not be offered.
  Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Chair, as the designee of Ranking Member Lowey, I 
move to strike the last word.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Illinois is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield to the gentleman from Washington 
(Mr. Kilmer), the distinguished vice ranking member of the 
Appropriations Committee, for the purpose of entering into a colloquy.
  Mr. KILMER. Mr. Chair, when I am at home, I don't hear anyone say, 
Let's make it easier for folks to use big money to influence elections, 
and yet there are provisions in this spending bill that would do just 
that.
  My colleagues across the aisle are putting these provisions into this 
spending bill because they know that shocking our political system with 
even more money is incredibly unpopular, and these provisions would 
never pass if they were given an up-or-down vote in their own right; 
therefore, I am standing up today for restoring accountability for 
campaign spending and highlighting the two provisions that should not 
be in this bill.
  First, we need some sunlight in this murky world of campaign 
spending. 501(c)(4) groups can play fast and loose in our elections, 
and I want to be sure that they are actually working on issues that 
impact the people I represent, not trying to get their preferred 
candidates elected. And yet this legislation that we are voting on 
ensures that the IRS will not have the authority to look into groups 
that might be flouting the rules, and that is wrong.

                              {time}  1630

  Unfortunately, secondly, we have also seen the Federal Election 
Commission struggle to enforce our campaign finance laws. This was a 
body that was created after Watergate to make sure politicians don't 
cheat. The Commission was designed to be the people's advocate in our 
elections, and yet, unfortunately, it has seen more gridlock than 
Congress.
  The Federal Election Commission is once again undermined in this bill 
because the bill says that the Commission cannot enforce any rules 
regarding how certain special interests are able to raise money. We 
should not be making it easier for political action committees to raise 
additional money from a few wealthy individuals without Federal 
Election Commission oversight.
  We should be voting on campaign finance laws that strengthen the 
integrity of our elections, not bills like this that weaken it. So my 
hope is that we can chart a new course, a better course, and one that 
brings people power back to these hallowed Halls rather than, again, 
giving more power to the deepest pockets and to special interests.
  Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 218 
printed in House Report 115-297.


                Amendment No. 221 Offered by Mr. Amodei

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 221 
printed in House Report 115-297.
  Mr. AMODEI. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       In title IX, strike section 906.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 504, the gentleman 
from Nevada (Mr. Amodei) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Nevada.
  Mr. AMODEI. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself 1 minute.
  One size does not fit all. As an enthusiastic supporter of the CHOICE 
Act, I must confess it is not perfect. You have been told all financial 
regulators should be subject to the power of the Federal purse. Well, 
this regulatory agency, the National Credit Union Administration, uses 
no Federal funds to operate, to administer, or to manage the National 
Credit Union Share Insurance Fund--let me repeat, uses no Federal 
funds.
  Now, when nontaxpayer funds are required to be federally 
appropriated, hopefully, this strikes you as an odd idea. But when the 
funds in question are placed under the appropriations process and are 
subject to being swept for other Federal spending measures, I hope that 
bothers you--not strikes you as odd, but bothers you.
  Credit union member-generated insurance funds are now, by virtue of 
being put into the appropriations process, subject to being swept for 
other Federal spending processes.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from California (Mr. 
Aguilar).
  Mr. AGUILAR. Mr. Chairman, I would like to thank my colleague from 
Nevada.
  I would like to just take a moment to weigh in on the amendment that 
my colleague, Mr. Amodei, and I introduced that would maintain the 
NCUA's current funding structure.
  The NCUA is funded, as he said, through fees paid by credit unions. 
Subjecting them to the annual appropriations process unnecessarily 
involves Congress in a process that functions fine the way it is.
  The NCUA is not synonymous with big, for-profit institutions. The 
NCUA is a not-for-profit structure and plays a critical role in 
communities throughout this country. If they are forced to go through 
the appropriations process, then local buy-in is trumped by the Federal 
Government. If anything, this would further complicate the funding 
process and decrease, not increase, transparency.
  Forcing the NCUA into this process is an attempt to fix a problem 
that doesn't exist. They are one of the only regulatory bodies that is 
both an insurer and regulator, and its unique

[[Page H7359]]

structure should be reflected in the way that the operations are 
funded.
  Mr. AMODEI. Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Chairman, I claim the time in opposition to the 
amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Missouri is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Chair, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Chairman, this amendment strikes a provision that subjects the 
National Credit Union Administration to the annual congressional 
appropriations process.
  My point this afternoon is that Congress must restore its power of 
the purse, one of the most potent tools the Constitution gives Congress 
for conducting oversight of Federal agencies and implementing reforms. 
There can be no consent of the governed if the American people, through 
their democratically elected representatives have no say in how their 
government spends their hard-earned dollars.
  We must not miss the opportunity to reestablish separation of powers 
and restore Article I authority, which Congress has given away in so 
many instances that the administration now has more power than the 
legislative branch.
  The NCUA is a prime example of why it is time to reassert Congress' 
power of the purse. Accountability and transparency was so lacking 
under former Chairman Debbie Matz' tenure that, over the course of her 
tenure, the NCUA budget increased each year, in some cases by double-
digit percentages. The Financial Services Committee, in fact, was 
forced to hold a public hearing during the 114th Congress.
  NCUA should not be singled out to avoid accountability to Congress. 
The CHOICE Act, which was passed by the House with overwhelming 
support--and the Congressman from Nevada's support as well--subjects 
all Federal financial regulators to the same congressional 
appropriations process, including NCUA. There is no reason to single 
out the NCUA for different treatment from all other regulators, all of 
whom the House has already voted on to put on appropriations just 3 
months ago.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. AMODEI. Mr. Chairman, with all due respect to my colleague from 
the financial institution folks, one of the things in the CHOICE Act is 
the Mick Mulvaney-generated transparency amendments that we are not 
trying to strike. It is not like we are hiding anything. And I missed 
the part where it says, oh, the fact that they are not taxpayer funds 
makes it okay that we go ahead and try to sweep those into that.
  I also missed the fact, quite frankly, that this is different than 
something like the Bureau of Consumer Protection folks who were an out-
of-control executive branch agency using federally appropriated funds 
to do as they darn well please.
  I missed the fact where we have got a problem with credit unions 
taking care of their own administration and their own insurance.
  And I, finally, missed the fact where, quite frankly, we have 
absolutely no problem with respect to these folks' performance record.
  So when you talk about going out and getting nontaxpayer-generated 
funds and saying we are going to bring those--by the way, good luck for 
these folks to get under our budgeting process. I won't say anything 
more than that, Mr. Chairman. Good luck.
  Whose budget are they going under? Who are we waiting for approval so 
we can say keep doing the things the way you were?
  So I will just say that this is a problem that does not exist with a 
solution that is being applied because of other regulators, which I 
agree with, but it is like to suggest, quite frankly, that the CHOICE 
Act was perfect and doesn't need a second look on a small thing like 
this, I mean, hats off to the committee. It is the only perfect 
committee I know of that has ever existed.

  Mr. Chair, I am prepared to close, and I will just say this: We ought 
to take a look at what track records are. And when we take a look at 
that and we look at unintended consequences, when you start branching 
out, for those of you folks in Production Credit Association territory 
and things like that and the budget issues and all of that other sort 
of stuff, it is like these folks are doing a good job. Let's let them 
continue to do that.
  Mr. Chairman, I would urge your bipartisan, nationwide support, and I 
yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Nevada (Mr. Amodei).
  The amendment was agreed to.


                Amendment No. 222 Offered by Mr. Kildee

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 222 
printed in House Report 115-297.
  Mr. KILDEE. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 375, strike line 19 and all that follows through page 
     376, line 6.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 504, the gentleman 
from Michigan (Mr. Kildee) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Michigan.
  Mr. KILDEE. Mr. Chair, well, this amendment is actually quite simple. 
It says that U.S. taxpayers should not subsidize coal-fired power 
plants built in other countries.
  Under the Obama administration, the Treasury Department issued 
guidance saying that the United States, through multilateral 
development banks, would no longer fund or support the construction of 
such plants in foreign countries. Unfortunately, President Trump has 
rolled back these efforts, and, in essence, the Trump administration is 
saying to the American people that American tax dollars should go 
overseas to subsidize fossil fuels and coal-fired power plants.
  I support, as many in this body do on both sides of the aisle, the 
efforts of multilateral development banks. In fact, the use of 
America's power in that sense, through entities such as the World Bank, 
is a great way for us to contribute to development across the globe and 
use that soft power in a way that potentially keeps us from having to 
go in a different direction. But we should not be using U.S. dollars on 
projects that subsidize foreign sources of pollution that contribute to 
increased carbon in our atmosphere and worsen climate change.
  Now, there are some that say that the science is not settled on this 
question. The people who are saying that, I am not quite sure where 
they are getting their science. Climate change is real. We really don't 
need a lot of evidence, even recently, to reinforce the notion that 
climate change is real. Extreme weather events are real, and they are 
making that point in ways that no discussion on this floor could ever 
do. Unfortunately, experts are telling us it is only going to get 
worse.
  Congress should not be encouraging the use of American taxpayer 
dollars to support coal-fired plants overseas. This amendment takes a 
stand and says that we will not support these sorts of irresponsible 
projects.
  Here in Congress we continually advocate for the responsible use of 
taxpayer dollars. And for the most part on this floor, we continue to 
advocate for efforts that will reduce carbon emissions in order to 
protect the environment, not just for ourselves, but for generations to 
come.
  Using American dollars to support coal plants in developing countries 
is not responsible. It is not a responsible use of taxpayer dollars. It 
is not good for our environment.
  Mr. Chair, I encourage my colleagues to join me in supporting this 
amendment, and I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I claim the time in opposition to 
the amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is recognized for 5 minutes.
  Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Chair, it is anti-coal policies such as 
this that result in a market loss for American coal and clean coal 
technology and cut off, really, quite frankly, an affordable, reliable 
source of energy that is critical to economic development in struggling 
regions of the world.
  This section 133 does not mandate coal-fired generation for U.S.-
funded international development projects. It

[[Page H7360]]

just simply ensures that coal can continue to be a part of our 
country's longstanding energy strategy.
  Abandoning support for fossil fuels hurts American jobs, and it slows 
American innovation.
  It is for those reasons, Mr. Chairman, I would urge a ``no'' vote on 
this amendment, and I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. KILDEE. Mr. Chairman, I am prepared to close.
  I just encourage my colleagues to think about this as an opportunity 
to stand up for the environment, stand up for responsible use of the 
American tax dollar, and keep in mind that we work really hard here on 
this floor to develop policy in this country that does not pass on to 
future generations a planet that is at greater risk than the one we 
inherited.
  When it comes to the use of U.S. taxpayer dollars going overseas, we 
ought to be able to clearly say that those dollars should be used in a 
way that contributes to the development of those nations, but in a way 
that does not undermine the quality of life across the globe and across 
the decades and centuries to come.
  Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to support this amendment, and I 
yield back the balance of my time.

                              {time}  1645

  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Michigan (Mr. Kildee).
  The amendment was rejected.


              Amendment No. 223 Offered by Ms. Jackson Lee

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 223 
printed in House Report 115-297.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 360, line 14, insert ``(increased by $500,000)'' 
     before ``shall''.
       Page 361, line 17, insert ``(decreased by $1,000,000)'' 
     before ``, of which''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 504, the gentlewoman 
from Texas (Ms. Jackson Lee) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Texas.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Chairman, I thank the managers of this 
legislation.
  Mr. Chairman, any Member of Congress or any elected official has had 
the sad duty of going to a child's funeral. Most of us in the Christian 
faith have heard maybe the same words said often in the place of 
worship and in the funeral service, no matter who it is, and that is 
that a child should not go before their parents. We have seen the 
brokenness and, of course, the absolute despair of that family that has 
lost a child.
  Unfortunately, as we have found in Hurricane Harvey, when people have 
looted victims of the hurricane, it is unfortunate that bad things can 
happen to good people.
  So the families of deceased children are victimized. They are 
saddened by the loss of their child, whether it is an accident that is 
tragic or a sickness; and then, because those names are printed and 
become public, they are victimized again.
  Alexis Agin was 4 years old when she died last year from a brain 
tumor. As her parents grieved from their daughter's loss, someone else 
paid attention to the details of her death, too. An identity thief was 
easily able to get Alexis' personal information after she died. Her 
parents had no inkling until they went to file their taxes, then to 
their astonishment and despair, they learned that someone else had 
already filed a tax return using Alexis' Social Security number and 
claiming her as a dependent.
  The Agins soon learned they were one of many. They said: ``Within an 
hour of learning that my daughter's Social Security number had been 
compromised and stolen, no fewer than 14 other parents whose children 
passed away due to cancer contacted us and advised us that their 
children's Social Security numbers, likewise, had been stolen.''
  Americans are told to jealously guard their Social Security numbers, 
but after one dies, the government goes public with that coveted 
information. It is included on the Death Master List.
  Mr. Chairman, I include in the Record an article from ABC News 
entitled ``When Loved Ones Die, Their Identity is There for the 
Taking.''

                      [From ABC News, May 8, 2012]

      When Loved Ones Die, Their Identity Is There for the Taking

                            (By Lisa Stark)

       Alexis Agin was 4 years old when she died last year from a 
     brain tumor. As her parents grieved their daughter's loss, 
     someone else paid attention to the details of her death too.
       An identity thief was easily able to get Alexis' personal 
     information after she died. Her parents had no inkling until 
     they went to file their taxes. Then, to their astonishment, 
     they learned that someone else had already filed a tax 
     return, using Alexis' Social Security number and claiming her 
     as a dependent.
       The Agins soon learned they were one of many. ``Within an 
     hour of learning that my daughter's Social Security number 
     had been compromised and stolen,'' said Jonathan Agin, ``no 
     fewer than 14 other parents whose children passed away due to 
     cancer contacted us and advised us that their children's 
     Social Security numbers likewise had been stolen.''
       Americans are told to jealously guard their Social Security 
     numbers, but after one dies, the government goes public with 
     that coveted information. It is all included on a Master 
     Death List.
       ``This is a database of more than 8o million records that 
     the Social Security Administration maintains of all the 
     deaths in the country. And that information is actually 
     publicly available,'' said John Breyault at the National 
     Consumers League. ``Consumers can go online, on any number of 
     sites, and get full name, date of birth and full Social 
     Security number, which we call the holy trinity of personally 
     identifiable information.''
       The list is used by banks, credit agencies and others to 
     try to prevent identity theft after someone dies. However, a 
     court case in the 197os forced the Social Security 
     Administration to make the list public, under Freedom of 
     Information Act laws. ``Unfortunately, dead people don't have 
     any privacy rights,'' said Breyault, ``That information, once 
     you're dead, is publicly available information.''
       ``Within 3o seconds of learning that my daughter's Social 
     Security number had been stolen, I went online and found her 
     Social Security number,'' Agin told ABC News. ``All the 
     information is there.''
       Breyault of the National Consumer League showed ABC News 
     just how easy it was. He sat down with me at a computer and 
     pulled up a wealth of information on my husband, who died of 
     cancer last year. My tax refund for this year has now been 
     held up because someone else filed a return, apparently using 
     my husband's Social Security number The Internal Revenue 
     Service said it might be a simple mistake by the other 
     taxpayer, not a case of identity fraud. The agency, however, 
     can't yet tell me for sure as it works to unravel the 
     situation.
       Today on Capitol Hill, the House Ways and Means' 
     Subcommittees on Social Security and Identity Theft held a 
     hearing on this growing problem.
       In his testimony, Russell George, the Treasury inspector 
     general for tax administration, told lawmakers that while 
     processing tax returns in 2011, the IRS managed to flag and 
     stop 940,000 returns that appeared to involve identity theft. 
     The refunds requested on those returns totaled $6.5 billion.
       George told lawmakers, ``There is much more fraud that it 
     [the IRS] does not detect.'' The inspector general 
     ``identified approximately 1.5 million additional undetected 
     tax returns with potentially fraudulent tax refunds totaling 
     in excess of $5.2 billion,'' said George. Those refunds were 
     paid out. ``If not addressed, we estimate the IRS could issue 
     approximately $26 billion in fraudulent tax refunds resulting 
     from identity theft over the next five years,'' he testified.
       The IRS told ABC News that it believes that five-year 
     estimate is ``far too high. The estimate was based on figures 
     from 2010, before the IRS instituted major changes in the way 
     it handles identity theft cases,'' the agency said. ``Our 
     increased compliance and prevention efforts mean we are 
     stopping more refund fraud than ever before.''
       The Social Security Administration had recently taken steps 
     to cut back on the Master Death List information it releases 
     publicly, leaving off the decedent's state and ZIP code. And 
     the IRS said it has installed identity theft screening 
     filters on its computer systems to flag suspicious returns. 
     ``Fighting identity theft will be an ongoing battle for the 
     IRS and one we cannot afford to let up on,'' said Steven 
     Miller, an IRS deputy commissioner, in written testimony.
       Late last year, the IRS established a special taxpayer 
     protection unit to help handle identity theft cases. But 
     George testified that those trying to file their 2011 taxes 
     found it difficult to get through to the unit. ``The unit 
     received more than 86,000 calls during the 2012 filing 
     season, but has only been able to answer about 21,000,'' said 
     George. And according to his testimony, the average phone 
     wait time for taxpayers was almost one hour.
       Taxpayers caught in this mess are forced to prove their 
     loved one's identity to the

[[Page H7361]]

     IRS. Agin said he had to provide evidence to show the IRS 
     that his late daughter was his child. Some cases have taken 
     up to a year to resolve.
       Congress is considering a number of bills that would limit 
     access to the Master Death List For Agin and the hundreds of 
     thousands of other taxpayers who have been victims of this 
     fraud, it can't come soon enough. ``It's bad enough losing 
     your child to any type of disease, cancer in any manner,'' 
     said Agin, ``but then have somebody steal their identify, the 
     last remaining vestige of your child, it's horrible.''

  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Chairman, there is no dedicated person in the 
IRS to deal with these broken and grieving families, so they simply 
become victims. By the time they find out, someone has bought a house, 
someone has taken their luxury vacation, got many credit cards, and 
used this dead child to abuse this family again.
  The Jackson Lee amendment is simple. What it does is it provides a 
dedicated person, funding to the IRS Taxpayer Advocate Service for the 
purpose of assisting the parents of a deceased child where that child's 
identifying information has been stolen and fraudulently used on a 
personal income tax return filed with the IRS.
  It is a simple request, Mr. Chairman. If the Taxpayer Advocate 
Service office is what it is, and if anyone has tried to use it, 
including Members of Congress, we know there needs to be a dedicated 
person just to answer the phone of the grieving parent who finds out 
through IRS filing that they are being abused again and their beautiful 
angel is being used for other and evil works of someone who would use 
that deceased child to their advantage.
  Mr. Chairman, I ask my colleagues to support the amendment, and I 
reserve the balance of my time
  Mr. Chair, thank you for this opportunity to speak in support of the 
Jackson Lee Amendment to Division D of the Rules Committee Print 115-
31, which makes appropriations for Fiscal Year 2018, ``H.R. 3354, the 
``Interior and Environment Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2018.''
  I wish to commend Chairman Graves and Ranking Member Quigley for 
their work in shepherding this legislation to the floor.
  Mr. Chair, the Jackson Lee Amendment is simple but provides an 
important and necessary protection for grieving parents.
  The Jackson Lee Amendment is intended to ensure that the IRS Tax 
Advocate Service has adequate resources to assist parents of a deceased 
child whose Social Security Number was stolen by tax cheats and used on 
a federal tax return to receive an Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC).
  The Jackson Lee Amendment is intended to be a compassionate use of 
IRS funds to help grieving parents navigate the process of reclaiming 
their child's identity from tax cheats.
  This amendment is necessary when we consider the story of little 
Alexis Agin who was just 4 years old when she died of a brain tumor in 
2011.
  As her parents grieved, someone stole Alexis' identity to commit tax 
fraud.
  Alexis' parents did not discover the crime until they filed their 
taxes.
  The sad fact is Alexis' parents are not alone--they were one of at 
least 14 other parents whose children died of cancer and learned that 
their child's Social Security number had been stolen by tax thieves.
  Nearly all of us understand the importance of safeguarding our Social 
Security numbers, but after someone dies Social Security numbers are 
published on a national online registry called the Master Death List.
  The Master Death List registry exists to alert businesses and 
financial institutions to not renew credit cards or create new credit 
in a deceased person's name.
  But it also alerts thieves of opportunities to steal identities and 
commit tax fraud.
  As reported by the San Francisco Chronicle identity thieves have 
stolen the tax refunds of more than 490,000 dead persons since 2008.
  The thieves typically claim that a dead person is their dependent 
when they file tax returns.
  In Fiscal Year 2012, the IRS initiated approximately 900 identity 
theft related criminal investigations, triple the number of 
investigations initiated in FY 2011.
  Direct investigative time applied to identity theft related 
investigations increased by 129 percent over that same period.
  On July 30, 2013, in St. Louis, Missouri, Tania Henderson was 
convicted of theft of government funds and aggravated identity theft 
and sentenced to 144 months in prison and ordered to pay $835,883 in 
restitution to the U.S. Treasury.
  According to her plea agreement and other court documents, Henderson 
stole the identities of more than 400 individuals, many of whom were 
deceased, and filed fraudulent tax returns using their names and Social 
Security account numbers.
  The theft of identities of deceased children for the purpose of 
committing tax fraud is a sad fact that too many parents have to face 
while they are attempting to cope with the tragedy of losing their 
child.
  The Jackson Lee Amendment will help ensure that the IRS Tax Advocate 
Service has the resources needed to assist these grieving parents with 
filing the last tax return where their child's name will be listed as 
being a member of their household.
  I urge all Members to support the Jackson Lee Amendment, which would 
be a compassionate use of IRS funds.
  Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I claim the time in opposition 
to the amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is recognized for 5 minutes.
  Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, as we come to the last amendment 
on the last bill of this appropriations season, I was hoping we could 
end it on a positive note. Unfortunately, I have to oppose this 
amendment. I respect the gentlewoman's thoughts on this. It is a 
compelling story that she shared with us, and a lot of families have 
been impacted by identity theft. It is certainly something that 
concerns me and our entire committee.
  We have worked through this. In fact, in May of this year, I held an 
oversight hearing and questioned top officials about this and their 
efforts to reduce identity theft. Additionally, the Financial Services 
bill that we are speaking of here includes targeted funds to combat 
identity theft as well as additional reporting requirements to monitor 
the IRS's progress in this area.
  In fact, overall identity theft referrals from the Taxpayer Advocate 
are down. They are down right now. It is not perfect. They are not at 
zero, but they are moving in the right direction, as are inventory 
receipts in the IRS Identity Theft Victim Assistance office.
  Our committee--myself, along with Mr. Quigley and the entire 
committee--have had to make a lot of tough funding choices throughout 
this season. It has not been easy. There are a lot of very worthy 
programs that we wish we can fund more. Unfortunately, we just can't do 
all that has been requested by all the Members who have a lot of great 
and creative ideas to help taxpayers and our constituents.
  But in this case with this line item, we didn't cut anything. In 
fact, it has been flat-funded. It is at the same level that was funded 
last year, and that comes in a portion of our appropriations budget 
here that we are talking about. It is being cut, on average, 6-plus 
percent overall. This one line item, though, remains static, and that 
should speak a lot to our committee and their work to find ways in 
which to provide additional resources to combat identity theft.
  Mr. Chairman, as we wrap this up, I want to thank you and everyone 
else for their patience today over the last many weeks. I thank the 
Committee on Appropriations Chairman Frelinghuysen and all the great 
work by the House of Representatives as we wrap up this final amendment 
with my opposition to the amendment. I urge the House to vote ``no.''
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. How much time is remaining, Mr. Chairman.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman from Texas has 1 minute remaining.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Chairman, last time I was on the floor, I 
mentioned that I was disappointed, and my friend on the other side made 
a remark that we all come here disappointed. I am saddened by the 
comment that he made earlier, and I am saddened by his response now 
because this is simply asking for a dedicated person, the offset is the 
operations account. It doesn't matter what conversations and what we 
have done. It is a simple direct response to the pain of people.
  This is a mountain if it happens to you. It is not whether we are 
coming down or we have had conversations; it is a mountain.
  So I would simply say, according to the San Francisco Chronicle, 
identity thieves have stolen tax refunds of more than 490,000 dead 
persons. This Death Master List continues. The IRS initiated 
approximately 900 identity theft-related criminal investigations out of 
490,000.

[[Page H7362]]

  So what if you are this parent of a dead child?
  I just would have a person dedicated to taking your calls. That is 
all I am asking in this amendment with a slight offset.
  It doesn't make any sense. Alexis' parents did not discover the crime 
until they filed their taxes.
  How many others have not?
  So I ask my colleagues, out of the goodness of their heart--this is 
the last amendment, and I don't think any manner of conversation about 
what I did yesterday and what I did last year is going to be helpful. 
Mr. Chairman, I ask my colleagues to support the Jackson Lee amendment 
to help the parents of deceased children.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. Jackson Lee).
  The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the noes 
appeared to have it.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Chairman, I demand a recorded vote.
  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further 
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from Texas will 
be postponed.


 Vacating Demand for Recorded Vote on Amendment No. 149 Offered by Mr. 
                                 Flores

  Mr. FLORES. Mr. Chair, I ask unanimous consent to withdraw my request 
for a recorded vote on amendment No. 149 to the end that the Chair put 
the question de novo.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. Is there objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Texas?
  There was no objection.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Texas (Mr. Flores).
  The amendment was rejected.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chairman, I move to strike the last word.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from New Jersey is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chairman, as we conclude discussion on our 12-
bill package, I rise to urge support of H.R. 3354 and to thank the 12 
chairs and ranking members who led the great work on these bills as 
well as the many Members who offered amendments in this open and free 
and, I may say, rather civil discussion.
  This package prioritizes our domestic and national security to keep 
our people safe, supports our troops, strengthens law enforcement, 
secures our borders, and helps get our economy moving, and it deserves 
bipartisan support.
  Over the past week, the House has debated hundreds of amendments in 
this appropriations legislation. Combined with the thousands of Member 
requests included in the base text, these bills are truly 
representative of our shared American values.
  I want to thank all my colleagues for their time and consideration of 
one another throughout this process.
  Tomorrow the House will vote to finalize all 12 appropriations bills 
before the fiscal year deadline of September 30.
  We have not had what is referred to and what is called regular order 
for a long time--in nearly a decade. And what's more, we have done all 
12 bills under a very abbreviated time schedule. From June 12 to July 
20--just over 1 month--the Appropriations Committee has held 12 
subcommittee markups and 12 full committee markups, putting in hundreds 
of hours debating hundreds of amendments. The legislation on the floor 
this afternoon is a result of this hard work.
  I would like to thank my committee, particularly its leaders, 
including Chairmen Robert Aderholt from Alabama, John Culberson from 
Texas, Kay Granger from Texas, Mike Simpson from Idaho, and Tom Graves 
from Georgia who has done a masterful job this afternoon, Judge Carter 
from Texas, Ken Calvert from California, Tom Cole from Oklahoma, Kevin 
Yoder from Kansas, Charlie Dent from Pennsylvania, Hal Rogers from 
Kentucky, and Mario Diaz-Balart from Florida.
  On the Democratic side, I want to thank Ranking Members Sanford 
Bishop from Georgia, Jose Serrano from New York, Pete Visclosky from 
Indiana, Marcy Kaptur from Ohio, Mike Quigley from Illinois, Lucille 
Roybal-Allard from California, Betty McCollum from Minnesota, Rosa 
DeLauro from Connecticut, Tim Ryan from Ohio, Debbie Wasserman Schultz 
from Florida, and David Price from North Carolina, and their 
surrogates.
  Of course, I particularly want to thank the ranking member of the 
full committee, Mrs. Nita Lowey from New York for her dedication and 
friendship to getting our work done on time.
  I must also thank our incredibly hard-working staff, Mr. Chairman, 
led by Nancy Fox, our staff director; and Maureen Holohan, our new 
deputy staff director on the Republican side; and by Shalanda Young and 
Chris Bigelow on the Democratic side. I thank them all. To all the 
staffs, those assembled here in this room and those who have been here 
for many hours over the last couple of days, I thank them all for all 
the work they have done to get these bills to the floor and the 
tremendous amount of time and dedication to them.
  Mr. Chairman, this bill makes sure the United States has a strong 
national defense and that our citizens here at home are protected. This 
package sets us on the right path to fully fund the entire Federal 
Government on time and on budget.
  Mr. Chairman, I ask my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on the bill, and I 
yield back the balance of my time.


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, proceedings 
will now resume on those amendments printed in House Report 115-297 on 
which further proceedings were postponed, in the following order:
  Amendment No. 87 by Mrs. Torres of California.
  Amendment No. 105 by Mr. Grothman of Wisconsin.
  Amendment No. 113 by Mr. Scott of Virginia.
  Amendment No. 117 by Ms. Norton of the District of Columbia.
  Amendment No. 124 by Mr. Flores of Texas.
  Amendment No. 125 by Mr. Buck of Colorado.
  Amendment No. 131 by Mr. Kildee of Michigan.
  Amendment No. 134 by Mr. Pocan of Wisconsin.
  Amendment No. 138 by Ms. Meng of New York.
  Amendment No. 145 by Mr. Kildee of Michigan.
  Amendment No. 154 by Ms. Clark of Massachusetts.
  Amendment No. 155 by Mr. Murphy of Pennsylvania.
  Amendment No. 160 by Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico.
  Amendment No. 161 by Mrs. Lowey of New York.
  Amendment No. 164 by Mr. Courtney of Connecticut.
  Amendment No. 167 by Mr. Lewis of Minnesota.
  Amendment No. 168 by Mr. Grothman of Wisconsin.
  Amendment No. 170 by Mr. Grothman of Wisconsin.
  Amendment No. 172 by Mr. Meadows of North Carolina.
  Amendment No. 173 by Mr. Walberg of Michigan.
  Amendment No. 174 by Mrs. Blackburn of Tennessee.
  Amendment No. 186 by Mr. Ellison of Minnesota.
  Amendment No. 187 by Mr. Gibbs of Ohio.
  The Chair will reduce to 2 minutes the time for any electronic vote 
after the first vote in this series.


                Amendment No. 87 Offered by Mrs. Torres

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from 
California (Mrs. Torres) on which further proceedings were postponed 
and on which the noes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 279, 
noes 137, not voting 17, as follows:

[[Page H7363]]

  


                             [Roll No. 493]

                               AYES--279

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barragan
     Barton
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Blum
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brooks (IN)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Buchanan
     Bucshon
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Calvert
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Coffman
     Cohen
     Comstock
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cook
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costello (PA)
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Cummings
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     Davis, Rodney
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DelBene
     Demings
     Dent
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Ellison
     Emmer
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Faso
     Fitzpatrick
     Fortenberry
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallagher
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gibbs
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Grothman
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hartzler
     Hastings
     Heck
     Herrera Beutler
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hollingsworth
     Hoyer
     Hudson
     Huffman
     Huizenga
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Jones
     Joyce (OH)
     Kaptur
     Katko
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kelly (PA)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Lance
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Latta
     Lawrence
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Luetkemeyer
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     MacArthur
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Mast
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McNerney
     McSally
     Meehan
     Meeks
     Meng
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Murphy (PA)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     Norman
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Paulsen
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Perry
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Poliquin
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Reed
     Renacci
     Rice (NY)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Rosen
     Roskam
     Rothfus
     Roybal-Allard
     Royce (CA)
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Shimkus
     Simpson
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (WA)
     Smucker
     Soto
     Speier
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Thompson (PA)
     Tipton
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Trott
     Tsongas
     Upton
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walberg
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Wilson (SC)
     Yarmuth
     Young (IA)

                               NOES--137

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Arrington
     Babin
     Barr
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Black
     Blackburn
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Buck
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Conaway
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Davidson
     Denham
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Donovan
     Dunn
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Ferguson
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gianforte
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Griffith
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hensarling
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hultgren
     Jenkins (KS)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jordan
     Kelly (MS)
     King (IA)
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lewis (MN)
     Long
     Love
     Lucas
     Massie
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     Meadows
     Mullin
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Pearce
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Ratcliffe
     Reichert
     Rice (SC)
     Richmond
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rokita
     Rouzer
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shuster
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (TX)
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thornberry
     Turner
     Valadao
     Wagner
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Zeldin

                             NOT VOTING--17

     Amodei
     Bridenstine
     Clyburn
     Costa
     DeLauro
     Diaz-Balart
     Garrett
     Graves (MO)
     Lawson (FL)
     Loudermilk
     Posey
     Rooney, Francis
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Tiberi
     Young (AK)

                              {time}  1729

  Messrs. BOST, COLLINS of Georgia, WENSTRUP, DENHAM, Ms. TENNEY, and 
Mr. McCARTHY changed their vote from ``aye'' to ``no.''
  Messrs. KRISHNAMOORTHI, JEFFRIES, COHEN, PETERS, MOULTON, BISHOP of 
Michigan, STEWART, BACON, DEUTCH, LUETKEMEYER, HUNTER, ROHRABACHER, 
CURBELO of Florida, RUSH, RYAN of Ohio, RENACCI, COFFMAN, BLUM, ROSKAM, 
and DUNCAN of South Carolina changed their vote from ``no'' to ``aye.''
  So the amendment was agreed to.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
  Stated against:
  Mr. BROWN of Maryland. Mr. Chair, during rollcall Vote No. 493 on 
H.R. 3354, I mistakenly recorded my vote as ``yes'' when I should have 
voted ``no.''


               Amendment No. 105 Offered by Mr. Grothman

  The Acting CHAIR (Mr. Collins of Georgia). The unfinished business is 
the demand for a recorded vote on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr. Grothman) on which further proceedings 
were postponed and on which the noes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 98, 
noes 313, not voting 22, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 494]

                                AYES--98

     Abraham
     Allen
     Amash
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barr
     Barton
     Biggs
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Brat
     Buck
     Budd
     Carter (GA)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Comer
     Cook
     Davidson
     DeSantis
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Franks (AZ)
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Gianforte
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gosar
     Graves (GA)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Harris
     Hice, Jody B.
     Holding
     Hudson
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jones
     Jordan
     Kelly (MS)
     King (IA)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     Long
     Love
     Marshall
     Massie
     McCarthy
     McClintock
     McMorris Rodgers
     Meadows
     Messer
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Norman
     O'Halleran
     Palmer
     Perry
     Poe (TX)
     Polis
     Rice (SC)
     Roe (TN)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Russell
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Walker
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (IA)

                               NOES--313

     Adams
     Aderholt
     Aguilar
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Barletta
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Bergman
     Beyer
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (GA)
     Bishop (MI)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Bost
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brady (TX)
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Buchanan
     Bucshon
     Burgess
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Carter (TX)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Cohen
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costello (PA)
     Courtney
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Culberson
     Cummings
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DelBene
     Demings
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSaulnier
     DesJarlais
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Donovan
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Duffy
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foster
     Foxx
     Frelinghuysen
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Gomez
     Gottheimer
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (LA)
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Handel
     Harper
     Hartzler
     Hastings
     Heck
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Higgins (LA)
     Higgins (NY)
     Hill
     Himes
     Hollingsworth
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Huizenga
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Jenkins (WV)

[[Page H7364]]


     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Johnson, Sam
     Joyce (OH)
     Kaptur
     Katko
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kelly (PA)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Kustoff (TN)
     Lance
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     MacArthur
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Marchant
     Mast
     Matsui
     McCaul
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McNerney
     McSally
     Meehan
     Meeks
     Meng
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Murphy (PA)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Noem
     Nolan
     Norcross
     Nunes
     O'Rourke
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Paulsen
     Payne
     Pearce
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pittenger
     Pocan
     Poliquin
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Roby
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Rosen
     Roskam
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Roybal-Allard
     Royce (CA)
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Rutherford
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sessions
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Shimkus
     Simpson
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smith (WA)
     Smucker
     Soto
     Speier
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tipton
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Trott
     Tsongas
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walorski
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Womack
     Yarmuth
     Zeldin

                             NOT VOTING--22

     Bridenstine
     Clyburn
     Costa
     Davis, Rodney
     DeLauro
     Diaz-Balart
     Frankel (FL)
     Garrett
     Goodlatte
     Graves (MO)
     Lawson (FL)
     Loudermilk
     Marino
     Newhouse
     Posey
     Rooney, Francis
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Shuster
     Tiberi
     Young (AK)


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1732

  So the amendment was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
  Stated against:
  Mr. GOODLATTE. Mr. Chair, I was unavoidably detained. Had I been 
present, I would have voted ``nay'' on rollcall No. 494.
  Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas. Mr. Chair, during rollcall Vote No. 494 on 
H.R. 3354, I mistakenly recorded my vote as ``yea'' when I should have 
voted ``nay.''


           Amendment No. 113 Offered by Mr. Scott of Virginia

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Virginia 
(Mr. Scott) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which 
the noes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 192, 
noes 223, not voting 18, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 495]

                               AYES--192

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Bost
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Cummings
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DelBene
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Fitzpatrick
     Foster
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Kaptur
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Turner
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth

                               NOES--223

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Conaway
     Cook
     Costello (PA)
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jones
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Katko
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     LoBiondo
     Long
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     MacArthur
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Meehan
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Norman
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Roskam
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tipton
     Trott
     Upton
     Valadao
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                             NOT VOTING--18

     Bridenstine
     Clyburn
     Comstock
     Costa
     DeLauro
     Diaz-Balart
     Frankel (FL)
     Garrett
     Graves (MO)
     Lawson (FL)
     Loudermilk
     Posey
     Rooney, Francis
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Tiberi
     Young (AK)


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1735

  So the amendment was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


                          personal explanation

  Ms. FRANKEL of Florida. Mr. Chair, I was unable to vote on rollcall 
Nos. 494 and 495. Had I been present, I would have voted ``nay'' on 
rollcall No. 494 and ``yea'' on rollcall No. 495.


                Amendment No. 117 Offered by Ms. Norton

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the

[[Page H7365]]

gentlewoman from the District of Columbia (Ms. Norton) on which further 
proceedings were postponed and on which the noes prevailed by voice 
vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 189, 
noes 225, not voting 19, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 496]

                               AYES--189

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Amash
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Cummings
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DelBene
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gaetz
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Kaptur
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth

                               NOES--225

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bera
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Costello (PA)
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Denham
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gallagher
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (LA)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jones
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Katko
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     LoBiondo
     Long
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     MacArthur
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Meehan
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Norman
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perlmutter
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Roskam
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Schrader
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tipton
     Trott
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                             NOT VOTING--19

     Bridenstine
     Chu, Judy
     Clyburn
     Costa
     DeLauro
     Dent
     Diaz-Balart
     Garrett
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (MO)
     Lawson (FL)
     Loudermilk
     Posey
     Rooney, Francis
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Tiberi
     Young (AK)


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1738

  So the amendment was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


                Amendment No. 124 Offered by Mr. Flores

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Texas (Mr. 
Flores) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which the 
ayes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 216, 
noes 199, not voting 18, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 497]

                               AYES--216

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Davidson
     Denham
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jones
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Katko
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     LoBiondo
     Long
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     MacArthur
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Meehan
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Norman
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Peterson
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Roskam
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tipton
     Trott
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (FL)
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                               NOES--199

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici

[[Page H7366]]


     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Buchanan
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Cohen
     Comer
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costello (PA)
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Cummings
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     Davis, Rodney
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DelBene
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Donovan
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Fitzpatrick
     Fortenberry
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Kaptur
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Mast
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Poliquin
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Stefanik
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Yarmuth

                             NOT VOTING--18

     Bridenstine
     Clyburn
     Costa
     DeLauro
     Dent
     Diaz-Balart
     Garrett
     Goodlatte
     Graves (MO)
     Lawson (FL)
     Loudermilk
     Posey
     Rogers (AL)
     Rooney, Francis
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Tiberi


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1741

  So the amendment was agreed to.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


                 Amendment No. 125 Offered by Mr. Buck

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Colorado 
(Mr. Buck) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which the 
ayes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 226, 
noes 191, not voting 16, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 498]

                               AYES--226

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Cartwright
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Costello (PA)
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Cuellar
     Culberson
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jones
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Katko
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     Long
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     Lynch
     MacArthur
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Meehan
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Norman
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Peterson
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Roskam
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tipton
     Trott
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                               NOES--191

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cummings
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DelBene
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Donovan
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Kaptur
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     King (NY)
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Labrador
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Reichert
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth

                             NOT VOTING--16

     Bridenstine
     Clyburn
     Costa
     DeLauro
     Diaz-Balart
     Garrett
     Graves (MO)
     Lawson (FL)
     Loudermilk
     Posey
     Rooney, Francis
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Ryan (OH)
     Scalise
     Tiberi

                              {time}  1745


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1745

  Messrs. LATTA and FERGUSON changed their votes from ``no'' to 
``aye.''
  So the amendment was agreed to.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


                Amendment No. 131 Offered by Mr. Kildee

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Michigan 
(Mr. Kildee) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which 
the noes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.

[[Page H7367]]

  



                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 247, 
noes 170, not voting 16, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 499]

                               AYES--247

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Bacon
     Barletta
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Bergman
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Blum
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Buchanan
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costello (PA)
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Cummings
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DelBene
     Demings
     Dent
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Emmer
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Faso
     Fitzpatrick
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Herrera Beutler
     Higgins (LA)
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hollingsworth
     Hoyer
     Hudson
     Huffman
     Hurd
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Jones
     Kaptur
     Katko
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kelly (PA)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     King (NY)
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     LaHood
     Lance
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     MacArthur
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Marshall
     Mast
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     McSally
     Meehan
     Meeks
     Meng
     Messer
     Mooney (WV)
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Murphy (PA)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Paulsen
     Payne
     Pearce
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Perry
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Poliquin
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Reed
     Reichert
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rokita
     Rosen
     Roskam
     Rothfus
     Roybal-Allard
     Royce (CA)
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, Austin
     Scott, David
     Sensenbrenner
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Stefanik
     Stivers
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Tipton
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Trott
     Tsongas
     Turner
     Upton
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walden
     Walorski
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                               NOES--170

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Banks (IN)
     Barr
     Barton
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Black
     Blackburn
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Davidson
     Denham
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Ferguson
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Hice, Jody B.
     Hill
     Holding
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Kelly (MS)
     King (IA)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     Long
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     Marchant
     Marino
     Massie
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     Meadows
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mullin
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Norman
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Ratcliffe
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Rouzer
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stewart
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Valadao
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walker
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)

                             NOT VOTING--16

     Bridenstine
     Clyburn
     Costa
     Davis, Rodney
     DeLauro
     Diaz-Balart
     Garrett
     Graves (MO)
     Lawson (FL)
     Loudermilk
     Posey
     Rooney, Francis
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Tiberi


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1747

  So the amendment was agreed to.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


                 Amendment No. 134 Offered by Mr. Pocan

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Wisconsin 
(Mr. Pocan) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which 
the noes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 199, 
noes 219, not voting 15, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 500]

                               AYES--199

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Amash
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Bishop (GA)
     Blum
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Cummings
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DelBene
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Fitzpatrick
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Jones
     Kaptur
     Katko
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     King (NY)
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Lance
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth
     Young (AK)

                               NOES--219

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Beyer
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Costello (PA)
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)

[[Page H7368]]


     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     Long
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     MacArthur
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Meehan
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Norman
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Roskam
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tipton
     Trott
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                             NOT VOTING--15

     Bridenstine
     Clyburn
     Costa
     DeLauro
     Diaz-Balart
     Garrett
     Graves (MO)
     Lawson (FL)
     Loudermilk
     Posey
     Rooney, Francis
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Tiberi


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1751

  So the amendment was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


                 Amendment No. 138 Offered by Ms. Meng

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from New York 
(Ms. Meng) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which the 
noes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 220, 
noes 198, not voting 15, as follows

                             [Roll No. 501]

                               AYES--220

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Barragan
     Barton
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Calvert
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cook
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costello (PA)
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Cummings
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     Davis, Rodney
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DelBene
     Demings
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Donovan
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Faso
     Fitzpatrick
     Fortenberry
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Graves (LA)
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Herrera Beutler
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Kaptur
     Katko
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     King (NY)
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Lance
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     McSally
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Paulsen
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Reed
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Royce (CA)
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Schweikert
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth
     Zeldin

                               NOES--198

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Davidson
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Ferguson
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Foxx
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jones
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     Long
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     MacArthur
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     Meadows
     Meehan
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Norman
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Pearce
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Ratcliffe
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Roskam
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tipton
     Trott
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)

                             NOT VOTING--15

     Bridenstine
     Clyburn
     Costa
     DeLauro
     Diaz-Balart
     Garrett
     Graves (MO)
     Lawson (FL)
     Loudermilk
     Posey
     Rooney, Francis
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Tiberi


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1754

  So the amendment was agreed to.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


                Amendment No. 145 Offered by Mr. Kildee

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Michigan 
(Mr. Kildee) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which 
the noes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 243, 
noes 175, not voting 15, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 502]

                               AYES--243

     Abraham
     Adams
     Aguilar
     Bacon
     Barletta
     Barragan

[[Page H7369]]


     Barton
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Bergman
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Blum
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brooks (IN)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bucshon
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costello (PA)
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Cummings
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     Davis, Rodney
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DelBene
     Demings
     Dent
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Faso
     Fitzpatrick
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallagher
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Herrera Beutler
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hollingsworth
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Jones
     Kaptur
     Katko
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     Kinzinger
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Lance
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Love
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Luetkemeyer
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     MacArthur
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Mast
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McKinley
     McNerney
     McSally
     Meehan
     Meeks
     Meng
     Messer
     Mooney (WV)
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Murphy (PA)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Paulsen
     Payne
     Pearce
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Reed
     Reichert
     Rice (NY)
     Rice (SC)
     Richmond
     Roe (TN)
     Rosen
     Roskam
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Sensenbrenner
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Stivers
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Taylor
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Thompson (PA)
     Tipton
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Trott
     Tsongas
     Turner
     Upton
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walden
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth
     Zeldin

                               NOES--175

     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Banks (IN)
     Barr
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Black
     Blackburn
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Davidson
     Denham
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Ferguson
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     Long
     Lucas
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McMorris Rodgers
     Meadows
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mullin
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Norman
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Ratcliffe
     Renacci
     Roby
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Tenney
     Thornberry
     Valadao
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)

                             NOT VOTING--15

     Bridenstine
     Clyburn
     Costa
     DeLauro
     Diaz-Balart
     Garrett
     Graves (MO)
     Lawson (FL)
     Loudermilk
     Posey
     Rooney, Francis
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Tiberi


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1757

  So the amendment was agreed to.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


        Amendment No. 154 Offered by Ms. Clark of Massachusetts

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Clark) on which further proceedings were postponed 
and on which the noes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 225, 
noes 192, not voting 16, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 503]

                               AYES--225

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Barletta
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Bishop (GA)
     Blum
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brooks (IN)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costello (PA)
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Cummings
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     Davis, Rodney
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DelBene
     Demings
     Dent
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Faso
     Fitzpatrick
     Fortenberry
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Graves (LA)
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Huffman
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Jones
     Kaptur
     Katko
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     LaHood
     Lance
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McKinley
     McNerney
     Meehan
     Meeks
     Meng
     Messer
     Mooney (WV)
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Murphy (PA)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Noem
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Paulsen
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Reed
     Reichert
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Roe (TN)
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Royce (CA)
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Sensenbrenner
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Stefanik
     Stivers
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Tipton
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Turner
     Upton
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth
     Zeldin

                               NOES--192

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Beyer
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Buchanan
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Davidson
     Denham
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Ferguson
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler

[[Page H7370]]


     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hoyer
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     Long
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     MacArthur
     Marchant
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mullin
     Newhouse
     Norman
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Pearce
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Ratcliffe
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Roskam
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Schneider
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stewart
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Trott
     Valadao
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)

                             NOT VOTING--16

     Bridenstine
     Clyburn
     Costa
     DeLauro
     Diaz-Balart
     Garrett
     Graves (MO)
     Lawson (FL)
     Loudermilk
     Marino
     Posey
     Rooney, Francis
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Tiberi


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1800

  So the amendment was agreed to.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


        Amendment No. 155 Offered by Mr. Murphy of Pennsylvania

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Murphy) on which further proceedings were postponed 
and on which the noes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 198, 
noes 219, not voting 16, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 504]

                               AYES--198

     Abraham
     Adams
     Aguilar
     Amodei
     Bacon
     Barletta
     Barr
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Bergman
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (GA)
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Blum
     Blumenauer
     Bonamici
     Bost
     Brooks (IN)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Burgess
     Butterfield
     Byrne
     Carbajal
     Carter (GA)
     Cheney
     Cleaver
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Cooper
     Costello (PA)
     Crawford
     Cuellar
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davis, Rodney
     DeFazio
     Delaney
     DelBene
     Dent
     Deutch
     Donovan
     Dunn
     Eshoo
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fitzpatrick
     Fortenberry
     Foster
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Garamendi
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Gowdy
     Graves (LA)
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Griffith
     Guthrie
     Hanabusa
     Handel
     Harper
     Hartzler
     Hastings
     Herrera Beutler
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Jackson Lee
     Jeffries
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Jones
     Kaptur
     Katko
     Kelly (IL)
     Kelly (PA)
     Kind
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Kuster (NH)
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lance
     Larsen (WA)
     Latta
     Lawrence
     Lee
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Luetkemeyer
     Lynch
     MacArthur
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McNerney
     McSally
     Meehan
     Meeks
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Nolan
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Palmer
     Panetta
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perlmutter
     Perry
     Peters
     Peterson
     Poliquin
     Polis
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Richmond
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rokita
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Roskam
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Schrader
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Sinema
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (WA)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stivers
     Suozzi
     Tenney
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tipton
     Torres
     Trott
     Turner
     Upton
     Vela
     Visclosky
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Wilson (SC)
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                               NOES--219

     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Arrington
     Babin
     Banks (IN)
     Barragan
     Barton
     Beyer
     Biggs
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blunt Rochester
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Budd
     Bustos
     Calvert
     Capuano
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Carter (TX)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chabot
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Coffman
     Cohen
     Cole
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cook
     Correa
     Courtney
     Cramer
     Crist
     Crowley
     Culberson
     Cummings
     Davidson
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeGette
     Demings
     Denham
     DeSantis
     DeSaulnier
     DesJarlais
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Ellison
     Emmer
     Engel
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Foxx
     Frankel (FL)
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gallego
     Gomez
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Grijalva
     Grothman
     Gutierrez
     Harris
     Heck
     Hensarling
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jayapal
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Keating
     Kelly (MS)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Knight
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     Lamborn
     Langevin
     Larson (CT)
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lewis (MN)
     Lofgren
     Long
     Love
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lucas
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Marchant
     Marshall
     Massie
     Matsui
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     Meadows
     Meng
     Moolenaar
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Norcross
     Norman
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Pallone
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Pingree
     Pittenger
     Pocan
     Poe (TX)
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Ratcliffe
     Rice (NY)
     Roby
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Russell
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schweikert
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, Austin
     Scott, David
     Sensenbrenner
     Serrano
     Sessions
     Simpson
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (TX)
     Soto
     Speier
     Stewart
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Taylor
     Titus
     Tonko
     Tsongas
     Valadao
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Velazquez
     Walker
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Weber (TX)
     Welch
     Williams
     Wilson (FL)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Yarmuth
     Young (AK)

                             NOT VOTING--16

     Bridenstine
     Clyburn
     Costa
     DeLauro
     Diaz-Balart
     Garrett
     Graves (MO)
     Lawson (FL)
     Loudermilk
     Marino
     Posey
     Rooney, Francis
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Tiberi


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1804

  Mr. PALMER changed his vote from ``no'' to ``aye.''
  So the amendment was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


      Amendment No. 160 Offered by Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from New Mexico 
(Mr. Ben Ray Lujan) on which further proceedings were postponed and on 
which the noes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 213, 
noes 205, not voting 15, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 505]

                               AYES--213

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brooks (IN)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Buck
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)

[[Page H7371]]


     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Cohen
     Collins (GA)
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costello (PA)
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Cummings
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     Davis, Rodney
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DelBene
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Fitzpatrick
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Herrera Beutler
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Hurd
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Jones
     Kaptur
     Katko
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Mast
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     McSally
     Meeks
     Meng
     Mooney (WV)
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Paulsen
     Payne
     Pearce
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Reed
     Reichert
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Trott
     Tsongas
     Upton
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walden
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wenstrup
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth

                               NOES--205

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Buchanan
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Davidson
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     LoBiondo
     Long
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     MacArthur
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     Meadows
     Meehan
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mullin
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Norman
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Ratcliffe
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Roskam
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tipton
     Turner
     Valadao
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                             NOT VOTING--15

     Bridenstine
     Clyburn
     Costa
     DeLauro
     Diaz-Balart
     Garrett
     Graves (MO)
     Lawson (FL)
     Loudermilk
     Posey
     Rooney, Francis
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Tiberi


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1807

  Mr. BARR changed his vote from ``aye'' to ``no.''
  So the amendment was agreed to.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


                Amendment No. 161 Offered by Mrs. Lowey

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from New York 
(Mrs. Lowey) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which 
the noes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 228, 
noes 188, not voting 17, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 506]

                               AYES--228

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Bishop (GA)
     Blum
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brooks (IN)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costello (PA)
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Cummings
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DelBene
     Demings
     Dent
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Donovan
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Faso
     Fitzpatrick
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gaetz
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Herrera Beutler
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hollingsworth
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Hurd
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Jones
     Kaptur
     Katko
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     King (NY)
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Lance
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Luetkemeyer
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Marino
     Mast
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meadows
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Poliquin
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Reichert
     Rice (NY)
     Rice (SC)
     Richmond
     Rogers (KY)
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Stefanik
     Stivers
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Thompson (PA)
     Tipton
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Upton
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth
     Young (AK)
     Zeldin

                               NOES--188

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barton
     Bergman
     Beyer
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Blackburn
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brooks (AL)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Denham
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Ferguson
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gallagher
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)

[[Page H7372]]


     King (IA)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     Long
     Love
     Lucas
     MacArthur
     Marchant
     Marshall
     Massie
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meehan
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Norman
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Renacci
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Roskam
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smucker
     Stewart
     Thornberry
     Trott
     Turner
     Valadao
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (IA)

                             NOT VOTING--17

     Black
     Brat
     Bridenstine
     Clyburn
     Costa
     DeLauro
     Diaz-Balart
     Garrett
     Graves (MO)
     Lawson (FL)
     Loudermilk
     Posey
     Rooney, Francis
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Tiberi


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1810

  So the amendment was agreed to.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded


               Amendment No. 164 Offered by Mr. Courtney

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from 
Connecticut (Mr. Courtney) on which further proceedings were postponed 
and on which the noes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 204, 
noes 212, not voting 17, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 507]

                               AYES--204

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Correa
     Costello (PA)
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Cummings
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DelBene
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Fitzpatrick
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Herrera Beutler
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Kaptur
     Katko
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Lance
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Luetkemeyer
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Matsui
     McCaul
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McKinley
     McNerney
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Olson
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Poe (TX)
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Reichert
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Schweikert
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Tipton
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Weber (TX)
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth

                               NOES--212

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carbajal
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Cooper
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jones
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     Long
     Love
     Lucas
     Lynch
     MacArthur
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Meehan
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (FL)
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Norman
     Nunes
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Poliquin
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Roskam
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Trott
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                             NOT VOTING--17

     Black
     Bridenstine
     Clyburn
     Costa
     DeLauro
     Diaz-Balart
     Garrett
     Graves (MO)
     Lawson (FL)
     Lofgren
     Loudermilk
     Posey
     Rooney, Francis
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Tiberi


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1813

  So the amendment was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


          Amendment No. 167 Offered by Mr. Lewis of Minnesota

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Minnesota 
(Mr. Lewis) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which 
the noes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 153, 
noes 263, answered ``present'' 1, not voting 16, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 508]

                               AYES--153

     Abraham
     Allen
     Arrington
     Babin
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Blackburn
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Collins (GA)
     Comer
     Costello (PA)
     Cramer
     Culberson
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fitzpatrick
     Flores
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Gallagher
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (LA)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie

[[Page H7373]]


     Handel
     Harris
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jones
     Jordan
     Katko
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     Kustoff (TN)
     LaHood
     Lamborn
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     Luetkemeyer
     Marchant
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McMorris Rodgers
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Murphy (PA)
     Noem
     Norman
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Perry
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Reed
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Rush
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Tipton
     Trott
     Turner
     Vela
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wittman
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                               NOES--263

     Adams
     Aderholt
     Aguilar
     Amash
     Amodei
     Bacon
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Bishop (UT)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bucshon
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Calvert
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Cheney
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Coffman
     Cohen
     Cole
     Collins (NY)
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cook
     Cooper
     Correa
     Courtney
     Crawford
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Cummings
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DelBene
     Demings
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Donovan
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Fleischmann
     Fortenberry
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Frelinghuysen
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gaetz
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gohmert
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Graves (GA)
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Harper
     Hartzler
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Hill
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Huizenga
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Joyce (OH)
     Kaptur
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Labrador
     LaMalfa
     Lance
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Long
     Love
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lucas
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     MacArthur
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Marino
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McKinley
     McNerney
     McSally
     Meadows
     Meehan
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Mullin
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Newhouse
     Nolan
     Norcross
     Nunes
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Paulsen
     Payne
     Pearce
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Ratcliffe
     Reichert
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Roby
     Rogers (KY)
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Rosen
     Roskam
     Rothfus
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Simpson
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Upton
     Valadao
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walden
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Wilson (SC)
     Womack
     Yarmuth
     Young (AK)

                        ANSWERED ``PRESENT''--1

       
     Blum
       

                             NOT VOTING--16

     Black
     Bridenstine
     Clyburn
     Costa
     DeLauro
     Diaz-Balart
     Garrett
     Graves (MO)
     Lawson (FL)
     Loudermilk
     Posey
     Rooney, Francis
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Tiberi


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1817

  Mr. GOHMERT changed his vote from ``aye'' to ``no.''
  So the amendment was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


               Amendment No. 168 Offered by Mr. Grothman

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Wisconsin 
(Mr. Grothman) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which 
the noes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 131, 
noes 285, not voting 17, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 509]

                               AYES--131

     Allen
     Amash
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barr
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Carter (GA)
     Chabot
     Collins (GA)
     Comer
     Conaway
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Davidson
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Flores
     Franks (AZ)
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hunter
     Jenkins (KS)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jones
     Jordan
     Kelly (MS)
     King (IA)
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lewis (MN)
     Long
     Love
     Marchant
     Marshall
     Massie
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McMorris Rodgers
     Meadows
     Messer
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Noem
     Norman
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Pearce
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Ratcliffe
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roe (TN)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (TX)
     Stewart
     Taylor
     Thornberry
     Wagner
     Walker
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Woodall
     Yoho
     Young (IA)

                               NOES--285

     Abraham
     Adams
     Aderholt
     Aguilar
     Amodei
     Barletta
     Barragan
     Barton
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Bost
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brady (TX)
     Brooks (IN)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bucshon
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Calvert
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Carter (TX)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Cheney
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Coffman
     Cohen
     Cole
     Collins (NY)
     Comstock
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cook
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costello (PA)
     Courtney
     Cramer
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Cummings
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     Davis, Rodney
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DelBene
     Demings
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Donovan
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Duffy
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Fortenberry
     Foster
     Foxx
     Frankel (FL)
     Frelinghuysen
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Handel
     Harper
     Hastings
     Heck
     Herrera Beutler
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Hultgren
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Joyce (OH)
     Kaptur
     Katko
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kelly (PA)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Lance
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Latta
     Lawrence
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     MacArthur
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Marino
     Mast
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McNerney
     McSally
     Meehan
     Meeks
     Meng
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Murphy (PA)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Newhouse
     Nolan
     Norcross
     Nunes
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Paulsen
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Poliquin
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Reed

[[Page H7374]]


     Reichert
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Roby
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Rosen
     Roskam
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Rutherford
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (WA)
     Smucker
     Soto
     Speier
     Stefanik
     Stivers
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Tenney
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Thompson (PA)
     Tipton
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Trott
     Tsongas
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walorski
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Williams
     Wilson (FL)
     Womack
     Yarmuth
     Yoder
     Young (AK)
     Zeldin

                             NOT VOTING--17

     Black
     Bridenstine
     Clyburn
     Costa
     DeLauro
     Diaz-Balart
     Garrett
     Graves (MO)
     Lawson (FL)
     Loudermilk
     Pascrell
     Posey
     Rooney, Francis
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Tiberi


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1821

  Mr. PALMER changed his vote from ``no'' to ``aye.''
  So the amendment was agreed to.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


               Amendment No. 170 Offered by Mr. Grothman

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Wisconsin 
(Mr. Grothman) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which 
the noes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 175, 
noes 241, not voting 17, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 510]

                               AYES--175

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Collins (GA)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Davidson
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Ferguson
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Franks (AZ)
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jones
     Jordan
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     Long
     Love
     Luetkemeyer
     Marchant
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Norman
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Ratcliffe
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Roskam
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stewart
     Taylor
     Thornberry
     Tipton
     Trott
     Upton
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                               NOES--241

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Amodei
     Barletta
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Bost
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Calvert
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Cohen
     Cole
     Collins (NY)
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cook
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costello (PA)
     Courtney
     Cramer
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Cummings
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     Davis, Rodney
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DelBene
     Demings
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Donovan
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Faso
     Fitzpatrick
     Fortenberry
     Foster
     Foxx
     Frankel (FL)
     Frelinghuysen
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Herrera Beutler
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Joyce (OH)
     Kaptur
     Katko
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Lance
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lucas
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     MacArthur
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Marino
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McKinley
     McNerney
     Meehan
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moolenaar
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Murphy (PA)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     Nunes
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Poliquin
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Reed
     Reichert
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rogers (KY)
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Stefanik
     Stivers
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Tenney
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Thompson (PA)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Turner
     Valadao
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walden
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Wilson (SC)
     Yarmuth
     Young (AK)

                             NOT VOTING--17

     Black
     Bridenstine
     Clyburn
     Costa
     DeLauro
     Diaz-Balart
     Garrett
     Graves (MO)
     Lawson (FL)
     Loudermilk
     Posey
     Rooney, Francis
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Schrader
     Tiberi


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1824

  So the amendment was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


                Amendment No. 172 Offered by Mr. Meadows

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from North 
Carolina (Mr. Meadows) on which further proceedings were postponed and 
on which the ayes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 178, 
noes 238, answered ``present'' 1, not voting 16, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 511]

                               AYES--178

     Abraham
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Conaway
     Cook
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Ferguson
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Handel
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding

[[Page H7375]]


     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jones
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     Long
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     Meadows
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Norman
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Pearce
     Perry
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Ratcliffe
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Roskam
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Russell
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Sinema
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thornberry
     Tipton
     Turner
     Valadao
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoho
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                               NOES--238

     Adams
     Aderholt
     Aguilar
     Babin
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Bergman
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Byrne
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Cohen
     Comstock
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costello (PA)
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Cummings
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DelBene
     Demings
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Donovan
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Faso
     Fitzpatrick
     Fortenberry
     Foster
     Foxx
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Guthrie
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Harper
     Hastings
     Heck
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Issa
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Jenkins (KS)
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Kaptur
     Katko
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Lance
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     MacArthur
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Matsui
     McCarthy
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     McSally
     Meehan
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moolenaar
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     Nunes
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Paulsen
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pittenger
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Reed
     Reichert
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Royce (CA)
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Rutherford
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Simpson
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Stefanik
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Thompson (PA)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Trott
     Tsongas
     Upton
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walden
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth
     Yoder
     Young (AK)

                        ANSWERED ``PRESENT''--1

       
     Huizenga
       

                             NOT VOTING--16

     Black
     Bridenstine
     Clyburn
     Costa
     DeLauro
     Diaz-Balart
     Garrett
     Graves (MO)
     Lawson (FL)
     Loudermilk
     Posey
     Rooney, Francis
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Tiberi


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1827

  Mr. PITTENGER changed his vote from ``aye'' to ``no.''
  Mr. AMODEI changed his vote from ``no'' to ``aye.''
  So the amendment was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


                Amendment No. 173 Offered by Mr. Walberg

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Michigan 
(Mr. Walberg) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which 
the ayes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 221, 
noes 196, not voting 16, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 512]

                               AYES--221

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Costello (PA)
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Cuellar
     Culberson
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jones
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Katko
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     Long
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Meehan
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Norman
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Roskam
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tipton
     Trott
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                               NOES--196

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cummings
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DelBene
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Donovan
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Fitzpatrick
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Kaptur
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     King (NY)
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     MacArthur
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton

[[Page H7376]]


     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth
     Young (AK)

                             NOT VOTING--16

     Black
     Bridenstine
     Clyburn
     Costa
     DeLauro
     Diaz-Balart
     Garrett
     Graves (MO)
     Lawson (FL)
     Loudermilk
     Posey
     Rooney, Francis
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Tiberi


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1830

  So the amendment was agreed to.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


              Amendment No. 174 Offered by Mrs. Blackburn

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from 
Tennessee (Mrs. Blackburn) on which further proceedings were postponed 
and on which the ayes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 156, 
noes 260, not voting 17, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 513]

                               AYES--156

     Abraham
     Allen
     Amash
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barton
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Carter (GA)
     Chabot
     Coffman
     Collins (GA)
     Comer
     Conaway
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Davidson
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Ferguson
     Flores
     Franks (AZ)
     Gaetz
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jones
     Jordan
     Kelly (MS)
     King (IA)
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     Long
     Love
     Lucas
     Marchant
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Noem
     Norman
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Ratcliffe
     Rice (SC)
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (TX)
     Stewart
     Taylor
     Thornberry
     Tipton
     Upton
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                               NOES--260

     Adams
     Aderholt
     Aguilar
     Amodei
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Bost
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Calvert
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Carter (TX)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Cheney
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Cohen
     Cole
     Collins (NY)
     Comstock
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cook
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costello (PA)
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Culberson
     Cummings
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     Davis, Rodney
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DelBene
     Demings
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Donovan
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Faso
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Fortenberry
     Foster
     Foxx
     Frankel (FL)
     Frelinghuysen
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallagher
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Granger
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Harper
     Hastings
     Heck
     Herrera Beutler
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hollingsworth
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Joyce (OH)
     Kaptur
     Katko
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kelly (PA)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Luetkemeyer
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     MacArthur
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Marino
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McKinley
     McNerney
     Meehan
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moolenaar
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Murphy (PA)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Newhouse
     Nolan
     Norcross
     Nunes
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Paulsen
     Payne
     Pearce
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Roby
     Rogers (KY)
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Rosen
     Roskam
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Rutherford
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Simpson
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (WA)
     Smucker
     Soto
     Speier
     Stefanik
     Stivers
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Tenney
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Thompson (PA)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Trott
     Tsongas
     Turner
     Valadao
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walden
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Womack
     Yarmuth
     Young (AK)

                             NOT VOTING--17

     Black
     Bridenstine
     Clyburn
     Costa
     DeLauro
     Diaz-Balart
     Garrett
     Graves (MO)
     Lawson (FL)
     Loudermilk
     Posey
     Rooney, Francis
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Smith (NE)
     Tiberi


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1833

  So the amendment was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
  Stated for:
  Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Mr. Chair, I was unavoidably detained. Had I 
been present, I would have voted ``yea'' on rollcall No. 513.


                Amendment No. 186 Offered by Mr. Ellison

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Minnesota 
(Mr. Ellison) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which 
the noes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 191, 
noes 226, not voting 16, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 514]

                               AYES--191

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Bacon
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Cummings
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DelBene
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Duncan (TN)
     Ellison
     Emmer
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gomez

[[Page H7377]]


     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Kaptur
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth

                               NOES--226

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carbajal
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Costello (PA)
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Dunn
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jones
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Katko
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     LoBiondo
     Long
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     MacArthur
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Meehan
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Norman
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Roskam
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tipton
     Trott
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                             NOT VOTING--16

     Black
     Bridenstine
     Clyburn
     Costa
     DeLauro
     Diaz-Balart
     Garrett
     Graves (MO)
     Lawson (FL)
     Loudermilk
     Posey
     Rooney, Francis
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Tiberi


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1836

  So the amendment was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


                 AMENDMENT NO. 187 OFFERED BY MR. GIBBS

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. 
Gibbs) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which the 
ayes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 215, 
noes 201, not voting 17, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 515]

                               AYES--215

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Blackburn
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Costello (PA)
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Ferguson
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     Long
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Meehan
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Norman
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Peterson
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Roskam
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tipton
     Trott
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                               NOES--201

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blum
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Correa
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Culberson
     Cummings
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DelBene
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Donovan
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Faso
     Fitzpatrick
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Jones
     Kaptur
     Katko
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Lance
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     MacArthur
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rooney, Thomas J.

[[Page H7378]]


     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth
     Young (AK)

                             NOT VOTING--17

     Black
     Bridenstine
     Clyburn
     Cooper
     Costa
     DeLauro
     Diaz-Balart
     Garrett
     Graves (MO)
     Lawson (FL)
     Loudermilk
     Posey
     Rooney, Francis
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Tiberi


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1839

  So the amendment was agreed to.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
  Mr. COLE. Mr. Chairman, I move that the Committee do now rise.
  The motion was agreed to.
  Accordingly, the Committee rose; and the Speaker pro tempore (Mr. 
Banks of Indiana) having assumed the chair, Mr. Collins of Georgia, 
Acting Chair of the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the 
Union, reported that that Committee, having had under consideration the 
bill (H.R. 3354) making appropriations for the Department of the 
Interior, environment, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2018, and for other purposes, had come to no resolution 
thereon.

                          ____________________



