

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 132 (Thursday, August 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 132 (Thursday, August 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S4824]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                REMEMBERING RICHARD ``DICK'' GORDON, JR.

 Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize the life 
and legacy of Arkansas World War II veteran and civic activist Richard 
``Dick'' Gordon, Jr., who recently passed away.
  Dick dedicated his life to regional conservation and civic issues. He 
encouraged involvement in local government and leaves behind a legacy 
as a respected community leader.
  His father, Colonel Richard Gordon, Sr., a decorated WWI and WWII 
veteran, set an example that his son followed. During World War II, the 
younger Gordon served as second lieutenant in the Army's 13th Field 
artillery unit, 24th Infantry Division, and earned recognition for his 
service to our country.
  As a community leader in the Fort Smith area, Dick made a big impact 
on numerous agencies and projects. He championed veterans' issues and 
helped address public school issues with the help of the parent teacher 
association. He formed the public awareness committee in Fort Smith, 
which allowed residents to interact more with government officials.
  Dick helped develop a bird sanctuary in conjunction with the Audubon 
Society earning him the nickname ``The Bird Man.''
  Additionally, Dick was active in the Fort Smith Parks and Recreation 
Department and the U.S. Forest Service. He used these platforms to help 
bring environmental consciousness to Arkansas.
  His civic involvement and willingness to help the community made Dick 
a well-respected community leader, even though he never held elected 
office. Then-Fort Smith Mayor Bill Vines made Dick an honorary city 
director.
  My thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends as they mourn 
his loss, but I know that they are also incredibly proud of the legacy 
that Dick leaves behind.

                          ____________________



