

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 203 (Wednesday, December 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 203 (Wednesday, December 13, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S8006-S8007]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 925

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 925, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to improve the ability of health 
care professionals to treat veterans through the use of telemedicine, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 1055

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of

[[Page S8007]]

S. 1055, a bill to restrict the exportation of certain defense articles 
to the Philippine National Police, to work with the Philippines to 
support civil society and a public health approach to substance abuse, 
to report on Chinese and other sources of narcotics to the Republic of 
the Philippines, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1118

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1118, a bill to reauthorize 
the North Korea Human Rights Act of 2004, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1161

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1161, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to eliminate copayments by the 
Department of Veterans Affairs for medicines relating to preventative 
health services, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1835

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Ms. Murkowski) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1835, a bill to provide 
support to States to establish invisible high-risk pool or reinsurance 
programs.


                                S. 2038

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2038, a bill 
to amend title 38, United States Code, to provide for a presumption of 
herbicide exposure for certain veterans who served in Korea, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 2076

  At the request of Ms. Cortez Masto, the name of the Senator from 
Michigan (Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2076, a bill to 
amend the Public Health Service Act to authorize the expansion of 
activities related to Alzheimer's disease, cognitive decline, and brain 
health under the Alzheimer's Disease and Healthy Aging Program, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 2152

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2152, a bill 
to amend title 18, United States Code, to provide for assistance for 
victims of child pornography, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2159

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the names of the Senator from Ohio 
(Mr. Brown) and the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Merkley) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 2159, a bill to require covered harassment and covered 
discrimination awareness and prevention training for Members, officers, 
employees, interns, fellows, and detailees of Congress within 30 days 
of employment and annually thereafter, to require a biennial climate 
survey of Congress, to amend the enforcement process under the Office 
of Congressional Workplace Rights for covered harassment and covered 
discrimination complaints, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2184

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the name of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Burr) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2184, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to improve veterans' health care 
benefits, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2200

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mrs. Fischer) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2200, a bill to 
reauthorize the National Integrated Drought Information System, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 2219

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2219, a bill to 
reduce the number of preventable deaths and injuries caused by 
underride crashes, to improve motor carrier and passenger motor vehicle 
safety, and for other purposes.


                              S. RES. 139

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 139, a resolution 
condemning the Government of Iran's state-sponsored persecution of its 
Baha'i minority and its continued violation of the International 
Covenants on Human Rights.

                          ____________________



