

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 164 (Thursday, October 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 164 (Thursday, October 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H7978]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   NATIONAL BLUE RIBBON SCHOOLS AWARD

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from New 
Jersey (Mr. Lance) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. LANCE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in recognition of The Academy of 
Our Lady of Peace in New Providence, New Jersey, and the Woodland 
School in Warren, New Jersey, for being named Blue Ribbon Schools by 
the United States Department of Education.
  New Providence is in Union County, and Warren is in Somerset County, 
New Jersey, both in the district I have the honor of representing.
  The National Blue Ribbon Schools award honors public and private 
elementary, middle, and high schools where students perform at very 
high levels or where significant improvements are being made in levels 
of achievement.
  The Academy of Our Lady of Peace and the Woodland School were cited 
as exemplary high-performing schools, as measured by State assessments 
and national tests.
  This recognition is a testament to the outstanding work and 
dedication of the faculty and staff in creating schools where students 
master challenging content. These are among our youngest students, 
infectious in their enthusiasm because of the excellent schools they 
attend.
  I commend Joel Castillo, principal of the Academy of Our Lady of 
Peace; and Jeffrey Heaney, principal of the Woodland School, for all of 
their hard work. I also commend the faculty, parents, and the 
communities in general.
  This prestigious award is noted throughout the country, and certainly 
the United States Department of Education is to be commended for 
presenting these awards.
  The Academy of Our Lady of Peace and the Woodland School are proud 
examples of academic excellence and worthy of this national 
distinction.

                          ____________________



