

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 156 (Thursday, September 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 156 (Thursday, September 28, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6232]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, I have 6 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


           committee on agriculture, nutrition, and forestry

  The Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, September 28, 
2017 at 9:30 a.m., in 216 Hart Senate Office Building, in order to 
conduct a hearing entitled ``Rural Development and Energy Programs: 
Perspectives for the 2018 Farm Bill.''


                      committee on armed services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, September 28, 2017, at 10 a.m., in 
closed session, to receive a briefing on North Korea.


            committee on banking, housing, and urban affairs

  The Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, September 28, 2017 
at 9:30 a.m. to conduct a hearing entitled, ``Evaluating Sanctions 
Enforcement and Policy Options on North Korea: Administration 
Perspectives.''


          committee on health, education, labor, and pensions

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is authorized 
to meet in executive session during the session of the Senate on 
Thursday, September 28, at 10:30 a.m. in room 216 of the Capitol.


                       committee on the judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate, on September 28, 2017, at 9:30 a.m., in SD-226 
of the Dirksen Senate Office Building, to conduct an executive business 
meeting.


        subcommittee on aviation operation, safety and security

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to hold a meeting during the session of the Senate on Thursday, 
September 28, 2017, at 10 a.m. in room 253 of the Russell Senate Office 
Building.

                          ____________________



