

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 187 (Wednesday, November 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 187 (Wednesday, November 15, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7231-S7255]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will report the nomination.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read the nomination of Joseph 
Otting, of Nevada, to be Comptroller of the Currency for a term of five 
years.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Colorado.


                          Republican Tax Plan

  Mr. BENNET. Mr. President, all year the majority has tried to ram 
through legislation to repeal the Affordable Care Act and replace it 
with proposals that, in effect, cut healthcare for millions of people 
to finance tax cuts for those who make millions of dollars in income. 
All year the American people have made it perfectly clear that this was 
the opposite of what they wanted. Fortunately, those repeal efforts 
failed.
  Now, instead of listening to the American people and learning from 
that failure, the majority has doubled down on its tax plan. Like 
healthcare, they have made no attempt to bring both sides together. In 
the Senate, we only saw the bill last Thursday. I am on the Finance 
Committee. I have been on there for years. It wasn't even in 
legislative language on Thursday.
  I remember back in the healthcare debate, 9 years ago, when people 
were saying: Read the bill. Read the bill. We came to the markup 
yesterday to offer amendments. There still wasn't a bill. There was not 
a bill.
  Thomas Jefferson used to say--and it didn't happen--that he hoped 
that when these legislatures were put together in the U.S. Congress, 
you would have to introduce a bill and, then, it would take 365 days 
before it could be enacted into legislation. Maybe that is where the 
tea party got the idea in 2009. Where are they now? We have not had a 
single hearing on this bill.
  Now they are marking up the most consequential tax policy in 31 
years, one affecting every single American and moving around trillions 
of dollars in this economy.
  Remember back during the healthcare debate when it was 16 percent of 
our economy and people were saying: Read the bill. You had better read 
this bill. There is not a school board in Colorado that would accept 
this process. There is not a city council that would accept this 
process. We have more process for a small decision about where parking 
meters should go than we have had in this process.
  People are upset for good reason. When you rush big things, when you 
don't listen to different views, you get bad policy. I have heard the 
majority leader say that on this floor.
  There is a reason why they are trying to rush it through. There is a 
reason why they don't want America to have a chance to read the bill or 
for their representatives to this Chamber to read the bill. That is 
because, just like the healthcare proposals they made, the majority's 
tax plan is fundamentally flawed. Over the course of the campaign, 
President Trump--then Candidate Trump--promised the American people: 
``No cuts to Social Security, Medicare, or Medicaid.'' That is not fake 
news. That is what he said.
  He said that ``everybody's got to be covered,'' speaking of health 
insurance.
  He said:

       Everybody's got to be covered. . . . Everybody's going to 
     be taken care of much better than they're taken care of now.

  He promised the public: ``You're going to end up with great 
healthcare for a fraction of the price.'' That is what he told the 
American people.

[[Page S7232]]

  Yesterday, a year after the election, and after 8 years of saying 
repeal and replace, repeal and replace, repeal and replace, it turned 
out that, because there was no idea how to replace it--there was no 
consensus on the Republican side about how to replace it; they failed 
twice to do it until yesterday--they added changes to a tax bill, 
literally in the middle of the night, that would cause 13 million 
people, according to the Congressional Budget Office, to lose health 
insurance. It would increase premiums by up to 10 percent, according to 
the Congressional Budget Office, on the individual market each year. 
You can't make it up. It would lead to a $25 billion cut in Medicare. 
That is what is happening here while people are distracted by what is 
going on in the Senate race in Alabama.
  How does this proposal in any way square with the President's 
promises during the campaign? All year we saw tax cuts masquerading as 
a healthcare point.
  I went home to Colorado and people said: Michael, you work with 
people in a bipartisan way all the time. Why aren't you working on this 
healthcare bill? There is no one in Colorado, including the critics of 
the Affordable Care Act, who said to me: Michael, I have a good idea 
for helping me with my healthcare: Give the wealthiest people in 
America a tax cut. Nobody came and said: Let's cut Medicaid by 40 
percent when we are facing the opioid crisis that we are facing.
  So they masqueraded it as a healthcare plan, and now we have a 
healthcare plan masquerading as a tax plan. On top of that, this plan 
doubles down on the claim that tax cuts for the wealthiest people in 
America and businesses not only trickle down to everyone else but also 
pay for themselves. That part is not surprising because that has been 
the Republican answer for what ails our economy.
  When our economy was up and our deficit was down, they cut taxes for 
the top 1 percent of Americans, making an average of $2 million. When 
our economy was down and our deficit was up, they cut taxes on the top 
1 percent, making an average of $2 million. Now, they are embracing 
exactly the same game plan in their tax plan.
  The Senate bill overwhelmingly benefits people and businesses who 
have done extremely well in this economy. As a former businessperson 
myself, I have nothing against that success. In fact, I embrace that 
success. My issue is that trickle-down economics as a theory for 
economic growth has been entirely discredited by our own experiences. 
This is not a theoretical exercise anymore. It is not as if these 
arguments haven't been made time and again and then proven to be false. 
That leaves me to wonder why this plan or at least the version we 
debated yesterday--I am not as sure about it today--gives roughly 
$50,000 in tax cuts to those making over $1 million.
  For Americans earning under $200,000, which is 19 million households, 
they would actually see a tax increase. Another 54 million households 
would see virtually no benefit at all.
  I agree that America needs tax reform. It is not about a political 
imperative for doing tax reform. America needs tax reform. That is why 
I joined the Finance Committee. Tax reform means we should clean up 
special interest carve-outs.
  I have to stop for a minute and pause on that point. For years, as 
part of the Gang of 8, as the Simpson-Bowles Commission came through 
and was crushed, and as there were bipartisan discussions, always what 
people said was that, on the corporate side, what we are going to do is 
to lower the rate and broaden the base. That was the plan. The way we 
were going to do that was by getting rid of a whole bunch of special 
interest loopholes.
  What this bill does is to lower the rate, but it forgets about the 
second part of the equation. If you look at the broadening of the base, 
you actually have to take away someone's loophole, and that is hard to 
do. So instead, what they are doing is lowering the rate and leaving 
the loopholes where they are--what a disaster. It took 31 years to get 
tax reform in this Chamber, and that is the answer?
  Today, if you don't like the situation, we have the highest published 
corporate rate in the world. I don't like that because that is 
uncompetitive for the United States at 35 percent. But one of the 
things we know about it is that, because of all those loopholes, very 
few people pay the 35 percent. Some do, and that is very unfair. The 
average effective rate is more like 23 percent, not 35 percent, and 
that is because companies can use loopholes. They can move money 
overseas. If you are a newspaper company or you are a trucking company 
here, you can't do that. That is why you pay the 35 percent. That is 
not fair, but this bill does nothing to take on those challenges--
nothing.
  We need tax reform to get rid of those special interest carve-outs. 
We should take steps to help our businesses compete, to unlock our 
energy economy, and to modernize the electric grid. We need 
comprehensive and bipartisan reform.
  This cannot be done. I want to give Republicans the chance to blame 
Democrats for things they don't like and Democrats to do the same, so 
we can actually get a result that is real reform, not something crammed 
through with 51 votes and a healthcare bill on top of it. It has been a 
terrible thing to see this Senate slide into the place where it is 
today.
  Mr. President, I say to the Presiding Officer, I know enough about 
you to know that you are not satisfied with the fact that we have been 
running this government on 30 continuing resolutions for the last 10 
years and that we can't pass a proper budget. We don't have an 
appropriations process anymore in the Senate. It is disgraceful. We 
would not accept it for any other institution of government or business 
on the planet. Certainly, we wouldn't accept it in Colorado.
  When I was superintendent of schools, if I had told people: Well, we 
have a little bit of a disagreement; so I am going to shut the 
government down until we can deal with this continuing resolution, they 
would have thrown me out. But that is what we have been doing here for 
the last 10 years.
  Now we have sunk to a new low. There has been no attempt to bring the 
parties together on this--none. The result is a deeply flawed proposal, 
completely at odds with what our economy needs.
  If you accept the logic of the Republican plan, the problem with our 
economy is that the wealthiest institutions and individuals in the 
United States don't have enough money to invest and create high-paying 
jobs for everyone else.
  Sometimes I hear people at home say: I don't have anything against 
rich people--neither do I. But the logic that somehow, if you give 
somebody at the top a tax cut, that is going to result in an increase 
to other people's income is completely contradicted by the facts.
  Here is what has happened in America since 1987, over the last 30 
years. This is the median family income. This is middle class in 
America, which basically for 40 years hasn't had a pay raise--has not 
had a pay raise. This can't be blamed on some Socialist who is named 
Barack Obama; this is 40 years of American economic history--no pay 
raise.
  Over that period of time, here is what has happened to corporate 
profits. If the logic were true, if the logic were correct or right, we 
would see the middle-class income rising more and doing better as 
corporate income statements and balance sheets hit alltime highs, which 
they have. Shown here is the great recession. Here is where we are 
today. Here is where we were before the great recession. Here is median 
household income--stubbornly flat.
  The balance sheets of the biggest companies in this country are awash 
in cash--awash in cash. It has not led them to help lift this line. The 
result of this has been a huge widening of the income gap in America.
  If trickle-down economics really worked, every American would do 
better as incomes at the top rose. Instead, what has happened is that 
the top 10 percent, which is roughly 11 million people out of a total 
of 330 million people in America, are earning an average of $475,000. 
That top 10 percent now represents a larger share of America's wealth 
than everyone else.
  Look at this. Here is the 10 percent. These are the folks who on 
average are making $475,000. Obviously, many people in here make a lot 
more than that, but that is the average. They now earn more than the 
bottom 90 percent of earners in America. That is not the way this 
country has been. You have to

[[Page S7233]]

go back to 1928--the year before the Great Depression--to see that 
level of income inequality in America. In between then and now, what we 
saw was a rise in the middle class, an economy that benefited everybody 
and lifted up everyone and gave them a chance to save and provide for 
their families. That is not happening anymore. The top 1 percent are 
earning about 20 percent of the income.
  It seems to me that the challenge with our economy is not that the 
folks at the very top don't have enough. They have more than they have 
ever had by a lot. The top 10 percent have over 50 percent of the 
income in America. The bottom 90 percent--it seems crazy to even say 
bottom 90 percent. It is not the bottom 10 percent; it is the rest of 
America, it is 90 percent of America who earns less. That is the 
challenge we confront, the challenge that incomes for everyone else 
haven't kept pace with the rising costs of housing or healthcare or 
higher education or childcare.
  Several months ago, I met a mom in Rifle, CO, at an early childhood 
center. That is on the West Slope of Colorado. She and the other moms 
were so happy that they had this early childhood center because before 
that, they had to drive 30 miles to Glenwood Springs for childcare. 
This mom said to me during the course of our conversation: ``I have a 
job so I can have health insurance, and every single dollar I earn goes 
to pay for this early childhood center so I can work.''
  There are families all over my State who are stuck in that place, 
where at the end of every month, they have to decide what they are 
going to go without. They can't afford housing. They can't afford 
college. They can't afford early childhood education. Their not being 
able to afford housing is increasingly becoming a huge issue. There are 
too many Americans who are facing those unbelievably difficult choices.
  Those of you who are here might say: Well, just tough it out. That is 
your issue. Work harder.
  These folks are killing themselves. They are killing themselves, but 
they are having to make choices and decisions because our economy is 
not working well enough for everybody and not working at all for 
everybody. They are having to make choices their parents and 
grandparents never had to make.
  Erin Barnes is another one of my constituents. She lives in Thornton, 
CO, with her husband and two kids. Both Erin and her husband have 
college degrees and middle-class jobs. They are working. They are 
educated. Erin works in marketing, and her husband runs an IT 
department.
  Earlier this month, she wrote to my office, describing how they 
``don't have luxuries like cable television, haircuts, lattes, 
manicures, or even new clothes. . . . My children all wear hand-me-
downs from friends. And yet, we make $1,200 less per month than we 
spend. . . . It's not that we're irresponsible: our monthly mortgage 
payment is only 25 percent of our income. How are the pieces not 
fitting together?''
  As the Presiding Officer knows, in America, consumer spending drives 
70 percent of our economy. When costs rise and middle-class families' 
wages stay flat, families like Erin's cut back, forgoing books for 
their kids, birthday presents, healthcare. Multiply that across 
millions of Americans--the 90 percent we are talking about here--and 
that has a dramatic effect on our economy because they are the folks 
who drive the 70 percent of our economy that is driven by consumer 
spending. That is the problem we need to solve. That should be our 
focus for their sake but also to drive our economy, not folks who have 
done the best in the economy and who are doing great. I am glad they 
are doing great.

  One way to help families like Erin's is the American Family Act, 
which I wrote with Senator Sherrod Brown, which triples the tax credit. 
Under our plan, Erin's family would gain $300 per child each month. Not 
only does the Republican plan largely ignore families like Erin's, it 
burdens her children with another $1.5 trillion in debt for the favor 
of doing nothing for them.
  You will hear over and over again the Republicans' claim that their 
tax cuts pay for themselves. We heard that in the committee today. 
Anybody who has lived through what has happened since President Clinton 
was President of the United States knows that is false. It was the 
logic that was used in 2001, the logic that was used in 2003, and it is 
what took us from having a $5 trillion projected surplus--you don't 
hear that word around here very often--when Bill Clinton finished being 
President to the record deficits we have today.
  Let me make sure I have the right chart up here. I do.
  In 1981, Ronald Reagan signed major tax cuts and claimed they would 
pay for themselves. By the end of his term, our national debt had risen 
62 percent.
  In the 1990s, President Clinton raised taxes at the top and cut 
spending to balance the budget, and the economy boomed. That was with a 
Republican Congress, I was reminded today by Chairman Hatch--one of the 
truly decent people in this place.
  By 1999, the U.S. Senate, believe it or not, actually held hearings 
on what to do with a $5.6 trillion projected surplus. I am not making 
this up.
  I know that Democrats have a reputation for not caring about fiscal 
matters and that Republicans have a reputation for taking them 
seriously. I don't know how that happened, but that is not the history. 
That is not the history.
  When George Bush was elected President, he passed two tax cuts, 
prosecuted two wars that were not paid for, and signed a $400 billion 
prescription drug benefit without paying for any of it. Medicare Part 
D--didn't pay for a dollar of it. The reason that today we collect $1 
for every $3 we spend in Medicare is largely because of what was done 
under President Bush.
  When President Obama assumed office, from day one, he inherited a 
$1.2 trillion annual deficit and an economy in free fall. We were 
losing 800,000 jobs a month, and unemployment was climbing to 10 
percent.
  Back then--and I was here--during the worst downturn since the Great 
Depression, Republican leaders all of a sudden remembered their 
conservative fiscal discipline, just when the American people needed 
their help the most. It was not when the economy was going well at the 
beginning of the Bush administration, not when we had a surplus, but 
when we had a $1.2 trillion deficit caused by the policies of the 
previous administration and a failure in the housing market. That drove 
us into the worst recession since the Great Depression.
  Citing the debt that we had then, which Barack Obama had not put on 
the balance sheets of the U.S. Government, every Republican opposed 
President Obama's economic recovery package to stabilize our economy, 
and not only that, they called it a Bolshevik takeover of the United 
States of America.
  Now, after inheriting a booming stock market and 4 percent 
unemployment, Republicans propose to add $1.5 trillion to our debt to 
give roughly $50,000 in tax cuts to those making over $1 million in 
this country--again, to this line, as shown on the chart.
  Today, America's debt is over $20 trillion. We could face another 
economic downturn 4 months from now or 6 months from now or an armed 
conflict on the Korean Peninsula. The debt suffocates our ability to 
respond, just as it has suffocated our ability to deal with the opioid 
epidemic.
  When I got here, there was barely an opioid epidemic in America, and 
over the last decade, it has flooded our country. But if you live in a 
rural part of my State, if you live in the San Luis Valley in Colorado, 
your access to addiction treatment is the same as it was 10 years ago 
because we are broke, because we can't work in a bipartisan way to deal 
with these issues. It is disgraceful, just as it was disgraceful to cut 
taxes in 2003 just after we sent our troops into Iraq. That was maybe 
the height of disgraceful.
  When we know there may be something imminent on the Korean Peninsula, 
when we know the Middle East is in the turmoil it is in, is this really 
the moment we want to do this?
  I will say this on this floor: If my colleagues vote for this plan, 
they forfeit any right to claim they are fiscal conservatives. And I am 
sad to say this--I really am; I think my colleague from Colorado would 
know I am telling the truth when I say I am sad to say this--but I have 
learned over the past 9 years that the only time the majority seems to 
care about fiscal responsibility is when they are not actually 
responsible

[[Page S7234]]

for it. In a sense, it is a devastatingly brilliant political strategy. 
You come to Washington arguing that the government is incompetent, then 
you explode the debt, then you point to the debt as evidence of 
Washington's incompetence. And here is how it all ended in 2016: You 
elect a President who promised that he would eliminate our debt ``over 
a period of 8 years,'' that he would deliver ``a giant, beautiful, 
massive'' tax cut, pass ``one of the largest increases in defense 
spending in American history,'' while saying, ``I'm not going to cut 
Social Security . . . and I'm not going to cut Medicare or Medicaid.'' 
Why not, he told the American people, since our national debt can be 
solved by ``eliminating waste, fraud, and abuse in the federal 
government, ending redundant government programs, growing the 
economy,'' and ``renegotiating all of our deals.''
  Here is the real problem. And I realize my colleagues are here. I am 
going to take a few more minutes, if that is OK.
  Last year, two-thirds of the Federal budget went to Medicare, 
Medicaid, Social Security, and other mandatory spending. Of the 
remaining third, half goes to national defense. After interest on the 
debt, that leaves just 10 percent for all of our investments in the 
future--in our future and our children's future--in infrastructure, 
research, innovation, and education.
  Over the years, because of the insanity around this place, Washington 
has slashed that part of the budget--which is called the domestic 
discretionary part of the budget--by 35 percent as a percentage of GDP. 
We have been really good at hacking on the stuff that is easy to get 
to.
  This should all seem deeply unfair to Americans in their twenties and 
younger to know that we are investing--simultaneously, we are investing 
less in them than our parents and grandparents invested in us, and then 
we have the nerve to say you need to pay back the debt we accrued; we 
are not going to pay it back. We are not going to invest in you, and we 
are going to make you pay it back. We are going to live in the house, 
but you are going to be stuck with the mortgage.
  When I served as the superintendent of the Denver Public Schools, we 
had to make hard choices to close schools, to modernize curriculums, 
and to fix unfunded pensions. We had intense fights. Like here, people 
had strong and principled disagreements, but unlike here--unlike in 
Washington--in Denver, the next generation was cause enough for us to 
set aside our differences and move forward. We understood that our 
children had no voice in our townhalls. Their future had no votes at 
the school board meetings. They only had us to do it for them.
  We have forgotten that here in Washington, in these marbled halls and 
on the carpeted floors of the Senate and the House. We have abdicated 
our duty completely to the next generation. Instead, we impose on them 
all the hard questions we fail to answer in our time.
  We are burdening the future with our debts. We are burdening them 
with the hard choices we avoid, with the easy path we follow, with the 
baseless claims we accept that tax cuts for folks who are doing great 
somehow trickle down and pay for themselves. That is false.
  If this plan passes, Washington will once again encroach on the 
rights of our children and our grandchildren to enjoy the same freedom 
and opportunity our parents and grandparents handed us. What a shameful 
legacy that would be. What a surrender of our responsibility as 
Americans.
  We have to set aside this flawed proposal and this broken process and 
instead have an honest, bipartisan effort that contends forthrightly 
with the substantive challenges of our fiscal condition and the 
political difficulties attendant to solving them. I may be wrong, but I 
suspect what history will prove is, no meaningful solution can be found 
by one party alone.
  I thank my colleagues for their indulgence, especially my friend from 
Missouri who is here.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Cotton). The Senator from Missouri.


                               Tax Reform

  Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, for 8 years, working families have seen 
their wages stay pretty much exactly where they were and, in some 
cases, they have seen their wages go down and their income go down.
  I will say again that the goal of this tax proposal should be to 
immediately do what we can to see an increase in take-home pay for 
those families and to do everything we can in the Tax Code to make us 
more competitive, to see that they have better jobs to start with and 
more competition for the good work they do.
  Our Tax Code clearly is broken. It is taking money out of the pockets 
of hard-working families and standing in the way of stronger economic 
growth, and we can and should and must do something about that. That is 
why the Senate is moving toward the passage of a bill that will address 
that Tax Code from both ends--more take-home pay now, better jobs with 
more pay to start with, and more take-home pay later.
  According to the Tax Foundation, under the Senate's proposal, middle-
income families in Missouri will see an estimated increase of about 
$2,400 in their aftertax income. When we consider the fact that nearly 
6 in 10 Americans say they don't have enough savings to cover a $500 
emergency or a $1,000 emergency, $200 a month really matters. There may 
be people talking about how the Tax Code doesn't do enough of this and 
enough of that, and at the higher end we should do more or we should do 
less, but no family who is working hard every day in the middle range 
of income in our country doesn't think that $200 a month makes a 
difference to them. At another level--at the $50,000 level--I think for 
that family, it is about $1,100 a year, so $100 a month makes a 
difference as well.
  This proposal would make our Tax Code simpler and easier to 
understand by just simply cutting out all of the deductions that only a 
few people are able to take advantage of so everybody looks at the Tax 
Code and has more reason to believe that everybody is not only going to 
be treated fairly, but everybody is being treated the same.
  There are deductions in this bill we should keep where they are. 
There are deductions like the child tax credit that we should increase. 
In fact, the Senate proposal that that committee will start, with the 
opportunity to amend further tomorrow--the Senate proposal doubles the 
child tax credit to $2,000 per child.
  Senator Klobuchar, my friend from Minnesota and the cochairman of the 
adoption caucus, and I were on the floor yesterday, pleased to be 
talking about tax credits, and certainly I am pleased to see that the 
adoption tax credit continues to be in this bill.
  The new mark also reduces individual rates. The current rate of 22.5 
goes lower. The 25-percent rate goes to 24 percent, and the 32.5 goes 
to 32 percent. What does that mean? That is all very complicated, but 
what people know, or at least their accountant knows, is that everybody 
sort of pays the same percentage on the first amount of income and then 
they pay a little higher percentage if they make it into the second 
bracket and a little higher if they make it into the third bracket. 
When all of those percentages go down, the total tax benefit for 
taxpayers is impacted by that.
  There are direct benefits in this bill but also benefits that 
continue to encourage small business. The estimation for small business 
is that 97 percent of all business in Missouri are small businesses, 
and the average tax cut for those businesses would be about $3,000 a 
year. These small businesses are the engines that drive the economy. 
They are the engines that drive growth. This bill understands that.
  This bill understands working families who haven't had a break in 
their paycheck in 8 years now, and it is time for them to be able to 
take home more of the money they earn.
  It is also time for us to do everything we can to see that they are 
going to have more competition for the good work they do in the future. 
More competition and more ability to compete with other countries and 
other companies mean better jobs. That is what this is about. It is a 
tax bill about families and jobs.
  I look forward to everyone in the Senate having a chance to amend the 
bill on the floor and to watch what I think has been a significant 
improvement in the bill as the Finance Committee has had a chance to 
look at it. They will have a chance to amend it.

[[Page S7235]]

Then we have a chance--those of us not on that committee--to look at 
what they have done and see what we can do to make it even better 
before we go to conference with the House and put a bill on the 
President's desk. We will do that. I am confident we will be successful 
here, and successful this year, in a way that matters to working 
families.
  I see my colleague from Colorado is here.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Colorado.
  Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to join in a 
colloquy with my freshmen colleagues.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, I want to talk about the last time we did 
tax reform, in 1986. In 1986, I was in the sixth grade. I had just come 
back from Camp Cheley, from sixth grade camp. I think the Atari 7800 
was the popular model that we all wanted for Christmas. I believe the 
Ford LTD station wagon was rolling off the assembly lines that year. 
``Top Gun'' was No. 1 at the box office.
  That was 1986. It is important because that is the last time we did 
tax reform in this Chamber. That is the last time we enacted 
meaningful, comprehensive tax reform.
  This Congress has an incredible opportunity before us today. Our 
colleagues have an opportunity to grow this economy, to get wages 
growing again, and to create opportunity for the American people that 
they haven't seen in far too long.
  Over the past decade, Americans have been working harder than they 
ever have before, but they have watched as the haves have more and the 
have-nots have less, and they are tired of it. We have seen stagnant 
wages and work hours growing. That is what this debate is about. It is 
about people who want to stand up for Coloradans and people around this 
country to make sure we grow this economy so people can stop working 
two or three jobs that they have to now just to try to make ends meet, 
so they can finally start to see wages grow.
  I am going to be joined throughout this afternoon's debate by the 
class of 2014, Members of the Senate who were elected in 2014 as a 
result of a message of economic opportunity--Senators from Georgia and 
North Carolina and West Virginia and Arkansas elected because we 
believed in an America that was growing again. We believed in an 
America that didn't have to settle for second place, it didn't have to 
settle for mediocrity or decline, but an America that with the right 
economic policies, the right tax policies, we could lift the burdens 
off the backs of the American people, off the backs of American 
businesses, and get this country back to work. That is what this debate 
is about.
  Over the past several weeks, we have heard a lot of debate about what 
the Senate bill is going to be, what the House bill is going to be. 
Over the past several years, the Senate Finance Committee has held over 
70 committee hearings on the issue of tax reform, countless reports, 
paperwork done, economic models to show what this tax reform needed to 
look like. We have had open debates from both sides of the aisle, a 
chance to say how do we reduce the tax burden on the American people 
and get this economy moving again.
  What the Senate has come up with is a package that is estimated to 
create 1 million jobs across this country--1 million jobs across this 
country--according to the Tax Foundation. In Colorado, that means a 
$3,000-plus increase in average aftertax income. If you don't think 
$3,000 is a heck of a lot of money to people, look at the statistics.
  The statistics show that the average American family--a significant 
percentage of them; percentages of American families--don't have 24-
hour access to just a few hundred dollars. They can't find--they don't 
have access to just a couple hundred dollars in a 24-hour time period. 
One-third of Americans, if they had to come up with $500 today, it 
would be a fiscal crisis for their household.
  We are talking about an opportunity to grow wages. In fact, the Tax 
Foundation says a 4.4-percent increase in average aftertax income will 
occur as a result of the Senate bill.
  I will yield to my colleague from Georgia. We are going to get this 
easel out of his way, but first I want to show one chart that shows how 
wage growth can happen.
  If you look across the world and you see nations that have low 
statutory tax rates and you see nations that have high statutory tax 
rates, you will see that those nations that have the lowest statutory 
corporate tax rates see the highest wage growth. People who work in 
these countries with low statutory tax rates, they see the highest 
average wage growth. Countries with high statutory tax rates--this red 
line right here--their wage growth is less than 1 percent. Do you know 
where the United States falls? The United States falls as the highest 
statutory corporate tax rate in the industrialized world. Our wage 
growth is at the bottom.
  Low tax rates result in high wage growth. This fight is for the 
middle class of America. This fight is for hard-working American 
families. This fight is to grow wages across the State of Colorado, 
from the Eastern Plains to the Western Slope, and around the country. I 
hope all of us will be engaged in this fight.
  I am going to turn this debate over to our colleague from Georgia who 
has experience in business and who understands how taxes work and who 
understands how to make sure he is providing for the people of Georgia.
  Mr. PERDUE. Mr. President, I wish to thank my colleague from 
Colorado. I will not tell him what I was doing in 1986, the last time 
we adjusted the tax rate, but I just want to remind our colleagues 
today that we are in a moment of crisis in the United States.
  Today we have a national debt crisis. I have been to this floor many 
times, and many of my colleagues have as well, to talk about this debt 
crisis. It affects our ability to do the things that we know are right 
to do--to deal with the victims of hurricanes, with national security, 
and with our healthcare situation.
  Folks, we are losing the right to do the right thing.
  To solve this national debt crisis, we have to do many things. But 
one of the ways we can deal with this debt crisis--and one of the first 
things we have to do--is to grow our economy. The way to grow the 
economy is to roll back regulations, unleash our energy potential, and, 
yes, finally, once and for all, fix this archaic tax system, which 
keeps us from being competitive with the rest of the world.
  In 1986, we had the third lowest corporate tax rate in history, in 
the world, and over the next 15 years we benefited from that. But at 
the same time, the more our economy grew, the lower the tax rates were 
taken in the rest of the world. Today, American businesses are taxed at 
one of the highest rates in the developed world: 35 percent. Meanwhile, 
for example, Japan's statutory corporate rate is just 23 percent; 
Germany is at 16 percent; Mexico is at 30 percent; the U.K. reduced 
theirs in 2009 from 30 percent to 19 percent, and they are about to go 
to 17 percent as we speak. As a matter of fact, the average rate in 
Europe is just 18 percent, while in Asia the average corporate tax rate 
is 20 percent.
  Why is the corporate tax rate so important to an American worker? The 
corporate tax rate we have in America is the greatest burden the 
American worker has today. Why? Because it makes that American 
corporation less competitive with the rest of the world. It also makes 
that American corporation vulnerable to foreign acquisitions of U.S. 
companies and then the moving of those headquarters and factories and 
jobs offshore.
  The No. 1 thing we can do for the American worker is to become 
competitive from a tax standpoint with the rest of the world. I have 
lived this. I have lived in Asia; I have lived in Europe. I have worked 
here most of my career, and I know when this gets out of balance, and 
it is out of balance today. We are penalizing the American worker 
because of it.
  It is no secret, a lower corporate tax rate would make us more 
competitive globally. Our tax plan fixes this. We are one of the last 
countries that still has a tax on unrepatriated earnings. In other 
words, if we have a U.S. company that makes money overseas, it pays 
taxes over there; when they bring it over here, they have to pay tax 
here. We are the last country in the world that really has double 
taxation. We need to end that repatriation tax so

[[Page S7236]]

that we can free up almost $3 trillion of U.S. profits overseas and 
bring them back and invest in training, in plants, in facilities, and 
in research and development. Our plan makes that happen.
  We have an individual tax code that is 2.4 million words in length. 
Let me say that again: 2.4 million words in length. Wasn't that the tax 
simplification law of 1986? I think it was. It is 2.4 million words in 
length. That is ridiculous, and it is entirely too complex. We all know 
that. Our plan will fix this.
  It is also estimated that, if we can get it enacted, this tax plan 
will create over 1 million new jobs because of the changes that we are 
enveloping into this Tax Code right now.
  In addition, it is estimated that the GDP growth will be more like 
3.7 percent, instead of the 1.9 percent we have become used to over the 
last 8 years. Frankly, I believe there is no reason it can't be 
significantly more.
  We are getting closer to getting this done, but I realize there is a 
lot more to do. It is more important now than ever that we don't get 
bogged down in this Washington dysfunction and gridlock.
  Last week, I mentioned that many Democrats supported the changes we 
are talking about in the Tax Code, right up until President Trump took 
office. In fact, over the last several years--in fact, over the last 
several decades--many Democrats on the other side of the aisle and 
people in their place before agreed.
  This is not a partisan issue. This is about national security, if you 
want to get right down to it. It is about making America competitive 
again. Who would be against that? There are decades of quotes from 
Democrats and Republicans about this issue. This should be a bipartisan 
issue.
  In 1963, a very famous American made this quote:

       A tax cut means higher family income and higher business 
     profits and a balanced federal budget.
       Every taxpayer and his family will have more money left 
     over after taxes. . . . Every businessman can keep a higher 
     percentage of his [or her] profits in his [or her] cash 
     register or to put it to work expanding or improving his 
     business, and as the national income grows, the Federal 
     Government will ultimately end up with more revenues.

  That noted American was President John F. Kennedy, in 1963. If he 
were here today, I think he would admonish all of us to put our 
partisan bickering aside and get something like this done for the 
American people.
  Another quote:

       I think [the corporate rate] should be lowered. We should 
     try to get it as close to the international average as we 
     can, so we'll [once and for all] be competitive.

  That was Bill Clinton last year, 2016.
  Another quote:

       Get rid of the loopholes. Level the playing field. And use 
     the savings to lower the corporate tax rate for the first 
     time in 25 years.

  That was President Barack Obama in 2011, believe it or not. This is 
not a partisan issue.
  There are more minority party leaders in the House and the Senate who 
have also come out and spoken on this point:

       Today, 28 OECD countries and every other G-7 country has 
     adopted some form of territorial tax system--and all these 
     countries have lower corporate tax rates than the United 
     States. This means that no matter what jurisdiction a U.S. 
     multinational company is competing in, they are competing at 
     a disadvantage.

  That was the current Senate minority leader in 2015. This is not a 
partisan issue.
  Another quote: ``It is long past time for tax reform that would lower 
the corporate tax rate.''
  That was House Minority Leader Pelosi last year. This is not a 
partisan issue.
  This tax bill is being done under regular order, including a 
committee markup this week, with plenty of amendments, and it will go 
to the floor as soon as we can get it there for debate and more 
amendments.
  I urge all my colleagues: Let's put partisan politics aside once and 
for all and collaborate through the amendment process to do something 
historic, something that American workers deserve, and that is to 
become competitive with the rest of the world again. Renew your support 
for the same tax changes your party has supported for years.
  I want to close with another quote from an individual I have long 
admired, President John F. Kennedy, in 1962.

       I repeat: our practical choice is not between a tax-cut 
     deficit and a budget surplus. It is between two kinds of 
     deficits: a chronic deficit of inertia, as the unwanted 
     result of inadequate revenues and a restricted economy, or a 
     temporary deficit of transition, resulting from a tax cut 
     designed to boost the economy, increase tax revenues, and 
     achieve, I believe--and I believe this can be done--a budget 
     surplus. The first type of deficit is a sign of waste and 
     weakness; the second reflects an investment in the future.

  Again, these are words from President John F. Kennedy, while he was 
President, in 1962. This is not a partisan issue.
  Our tax plan is an investment in our future, just as John F. Kennedy 
said. It is an investment that will help all Americans.
  I know there is a lot of disinformation going on: This is only a tax 
break for the wealthy, and so forth. When the facts come out--and they 
have already come out; four Pinocchios have been given to those 
comments. Our tax plan will prove that when we get into the details.
  Equally important, getting this tax plan done to help all Americans 
is a critical part of developing a long-term plan to solve the national 
debt crisis.
  I am proud to serve here with my colleague from North Carolina, 
Senator Tillis. I think, in North Carolina, they actually did this, and 
they had the results we are talking about here.
  Mr. TILLIS. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Georgia and my 
colleague from Colorado for their comments--and the future comments of 
some of my colleagues who are in the class of 2014.
  Ladies and gentlemen, I want to talk a little bit about facts and 
fiction and some of the things we will observe here. In fact, I think 
probably the Kennedy Center is the only place you can go to see a 
bigger theatrical performance than what you are going to see on this 
floor over the next couple of weeks, because they are simply not 
consistent with what we are trying to do here, and I want to talk a 
little bit about it. Let's start with some of the fiction.
  I was just presiding before I came off the dais about 30 minutes ago, 
and I heard a 30-minute speech from someone who said that they haven't 
seen the bill, said that it had been passed in the dark of night, that 
it is not being discussed in committee. But then they went on to have a 
30-minute description of why the bill is bad
  How could you not have seen something and have such a definitive 
position on the provisions of the bill? To me, it is just curious.
  Here is something that is even more curious. There are so many 
Members--many of them friends--on the other side of the aisle who are 
simply making a false claim that we are somehow going to raise taxes on 
working families, the middle class. Why would that make sense? What on 
Earth would the voters of the United States and my voters in North 
Carolina do to me next year if I came out and declared victory because 
I raised taxes on middle-income and working families? It doesn't make 
sense, and it has been proven to be false.
  The Washington Post has a rating system they use. They call it the 
Pinocchio system. One Pinocchio means you are probably stretching the 
truth a little bit; four Pinocchios means there is not a shred of truth 
in what you are saying. These claims about raising taxes on working 
families and middle-income families earned four Pinocchios; they are 
fiction.
  What we are trying to do is provide a tax break to the people who 
need it the most--to the people who are trying to pay their bills, 
struggling to go to school, actually struggling just to pay the rent. 
That is what this tax bill is about. This tax cut is about getting the 
economy back on track so that we can also drive up wages.
  Not only do we want to provide you with more money in your pocketbook 
and in your wallet at the end of the month by reducing your tax burden, 
but we also want to make it more likely that you are going to make more 
money, you are going to get a better job, and you are going to have 
more income at the end of this process. I firmly believe that it will 
work.
  Let's talk about the facts of this plan. The facts are that we have 
to have tax relief. We have one of the highest corporate tax rates in 
the world. There is no way the greatest economy that has ever existed 
should

[[Page S7237]]

be one of the least welcoming and least hospitable to job growth. That 
is why we have to reduce the corporate tax rate.
  We also have to reduce the tax rate on small businesses. Eighty 
percent of all jobs created in North Carolina are created by small 
businesses. The people whom the gentleman from Colorado referred to as 
``the rich people'' are small business owners who actually file their 
taxes through their individual income. So perhaps they have a fair 
amount of revenue, but a lot of it has to go to pay for the business, 
and a little bit is left behind for them and their families and their 
employees. We have to reduce the tax burden on small businesses so that 
they can create more jobs and, hopefully, some day, become very large 
businesses--hopefully, corporations--creating more and more jobs and 
more opportunities for more workers.
  At the end of the day, the middle-income tax break is going to be 
somewhere between $1,500 and $2,000 a year. It will vary a little bit 
from State to State, but that is a lot of money in these very difficult 
times. More important than that are the opportunities that will be 
created through economic growth. That is what I will leave you with. I 
have seen this happen.
  First, I have seen the false claims before. They were waged against 
me when I was the speaker of the house in North Carolina, and we had 
the courage in the middle of a fiscal crisis to cut taxes and grow 
jobs. We had all the liberal media, and we had some of my good friends 
on the other side of the aisle whom I agreed with on many other issues 
but who disagreed with us on tax reform. But in North Carolina, no one 
is complaining about the tax reform results. In fact, we have one of 
the fastest growing State economies in the United States today, after 
being in the fourth quartile just 5 or 6 years ago. We have seen our 
median incomes go up, and we have seen a number of people lifted out of 
poverty at high levels. I know it works.
  It is not easy, but it is a promise we made to the American people 
last year, and it is a promise we are going to keep--this Congress is 
going to keep--in the coming weeks. When we do this, then we can start 
working on an economy that can pay down the debt and make sure that 
these young people who are pages here and the young people here in the 
gallery right now--you may not know this, but you owe about $70,000, on 
average, to the Federal Government. That is your share of the national 
debt. I don't want you to have to pay it back.
  I want an economy that is growing, that can ultimately resolve our 
debt problem. But you can do it only by producing growth, you can do it 
only by becoming economically competitive, and you can do it only by 
lifting the tax burden on businesses and working families so that money 
can flow back through the private economy and out of the coffers in 
Washington.
  I thank my colleagues for their hard work on this bill. I look 
forward to voting for the bill. I know it is going to produce a result 
because I have seen it produce a result in my experience as speaker of 
the house. It will work for America. It will be one of the great things 
we are going to do in this Congress.
  At this point, again, I thank my colleagues. I am going to pass it 
off to the Senator from Louisiana, Mr. Kennedy.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Louisiana.
  Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, it does not take a genius to see that 
something is stalling the American economy. The economy has been better 
lately, I think, frankly, in anticipation of the Congress's passing 
these tax cuts. The fact remains that 2016 was the 11th straight year 
that our economy--the greatest economy in the history of the world and 
the strongest economy in the history of the world, even when it has the 
flu--failed to achieve 3 percent annual growth, which has been our 
average every year since 1960.
  Something is wrong. The experts I have talked about tried everything. 
They tried monetary policy, changing interest rates. They tried deficit 
spending. Do you remember President Obama's stimulus program? The 
Federal Reserve has tried quantitative easing out the wazoo. The 
experts have tried everything except what they should have done first; 
that is, to let the American people keep more of the money they earn, 
because they can spend that money they earn better than the government 
can.
  We have two groups of policymakers in Washington, DC. I am sorry, but 
this is what it has come down to. I am not talking about liberals or 
conservatives. I am not talking about Republicans and Democrats. The 
two groups I am talking about are as follows. We have one group of 
policymakers in Washington who believe in more freedom, and we have 
another group of policymakers in Washington who believe in more free 
stuff.
  I am not criticizing policymakers for wanting to help people who are 
less fortunate than us. The fact of the matter is that the U.S. 
taxpayers at the State and the local levels spend $1 trillion a year 
helping people less fortunate than us. That money didn't just fall from 
heaven. We thank heaven for it, but it came out of people's pockets. We 
spend $1 trillion a year in our country helping people who are less 
fortunate than us. In our country, if you are homeless, we house you. 
If you are hungry, we feed you. If you are too poor to be sick, we will 
pay for your doctor. I am very proud of that. I am not criticizing. In 
fact, I join my colleagues in wanting to help people who are less 
fortunate than us. The fact of the matter is, it takes money, and that 
money is generated by the American taxpayer. The American taxpayer is 
not generating very much because the American taxpayer is not making 
very much.
  Let me talk to you about the middle class.
  I can talk about the business side of this bill, and this is going to 
help every business in America. It is going to help C corps, LLCs, Sub 
S corps, family farms, and single proprietorships. It is going to help 
large businesswomen and businessmen, and it is going to help small 
businesswomen and businessmen.
  But I want to talk about the personal income tax side. This bill will 
give a tax cut to just about every American. Our opponents can probably 
find one or two people under certain circumstances who aren't going to 
get a tax cut, but the fact remains, if you look at the numbers of the 
joint committee on the budget, if you make between $20,000 and $30,000 
a year on average, you are going to get a 10-percent tax cut. If you 
make between $50,000 and $70,000 a year, you are going to get right 
around a 7-percent tax cut. If you make $1 million or more a year, you 
are going to get roughly a 5-percent tax cut. As for the middle class, 
we can debate what the middle class is, but I consider the middle class 
to be somewhere between $30,000 and $100,000 a year. You can pick your 
own definition. They are the ones that I am concerned about the most--
not exclusively, but the most. Let me tell you what this bill is about 
in terms of the middle class: this, the wallet--their wallet--because 
the middle class is angry in this country, and they ought to be angry.
  Every day, they say: Kennedy, I get up every day. I go to work. I 
obey the law. I pay my taxes. I try to do the right thing by my 
children. I try to teach my kids morals. I try to save for retirement. 
But I am getting fed up.
  They tell me: Kennedy, I look around, and I see a rigged economy. I 
see too many undeserving people at the top getting bailouts, cutting 
corners, and making deals. I see too many undeserving people at the 
bottom getting handouts. I am in the middle, and I get stuck with the 
bill. I can't pay it anymore, Kennedy. My health insurance has gone up, 
thanks to the Affordable Care Act, and my kids' tuition has gone up. My 
taxes have gone up. I will tell you what has not gone up--my income.
  These are the American people, the middle class. They are busy 
earning a living. They may not read Aristotle every day, but they are 
smart and they get it. They know the median household income today is 
basically the same as it was in 1999, and for that, every policy maker 
responsible for that fact in Washington, DC, and elsewhere ought to 
hide their heads in a bag.
  This bill is going to fix that, and that is why it is so incredibly 
important that we pass it. Yes, it is important for our business 
community. Yes, it is important for the large corporations. Yes, it is 
important to repatriate those trillions of dollars. But at the end of 
the day, it is important primarily for ordinary people, you and me--the 
people

[[Page S7238]]

who get up every day and go to work, obey the law, pay their taxes, and 
made this country great. They have hurt long enough.
  Mr. President, I yield to my colleague from Colorado. We call him a 
silver-tongued devil because he is so eloquent.
  Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Louisiana for 
that, and I recognize the Senator from West Virginia for comments on 
why this is important to the country.
  Mrs. CAPITO. Thank you very much.
  Mr. President, I wish to thank the Senator from Colorado for his 
leadership in bringing us, the class of 2014, to the floor to talk 
about the commonsense tax reform measure that we have, the opportunity 
of decades to make a difference--a big difference--in many of the lives 
of the people we represent. I would even say most lives.
  This is about the sixth time I have been to the floor to talk about 
what I think is the best tax reform package I have seen in my time here 
and also the different aspects of tax reform that I think are great for 
the country and great for my State. I represent a small State, the 
small State of West Virginia.
  I have talked about small businesses and families and what it means 
for them--simplification and creating a competitive environment. But 
there is nothing like going home and talking to people, whether we are 
at the grocery store or, as in this past week, when we were all in 
Veterans Day parades. People are generally so respectful and very happy 
at a Veterans Day parade. I can't say the same for every parade, but I 
will say that for the Veterans Day parade, they are generally pretty 
happy. I was really surprised because I had several constituents--not 
just one or two but several--say to me: Pass this bill; we want tax 
relief.
  It was totally unsolicited. So West Virginians are paying attention 
to what we are doing in the Senate.
  Right now, our colleagues on the Finance Committee are working to 
advance this bill as early as tomorrow. We are very hopeful that we 
will be able to consider this bill on the floor of the Senate the week 
we get back from Thanksgiving, as our colleagues in the House are 
passing their bill this week. Do you know what? It has been 
disappointing to me and really to everybody, I think, involved in this, 
as tax reform has become a partisan issue, an exercise. We have shared 
goals. We all want to go to the same place in this country--a 
prosperous place where everybody can thrive and succeed--but to turn 
your back on what I think is a well-thought-out, much studied plan on 
tax relief, I think, is to turn a blind eye to every working American, 
every American business, and every American family, and, personally, I 
don't think it is fair.
  Our goals are shared by many Americans, regardless of their party, 
because we want to grow small businesses. I am in a State where 95 
percent of our businesses are small businesses. We want to allow those 
small businesses to make the decisions to grow employment opportunities 
or raise wages. We want to make our bigger companies competitive 
globally.
  People say: You know, what is a big company really going to do for 
me, working and living here in West Virginia?
  I think if we looked at the major companies that are invested in our 
State, we know that making those companies more competitive will result 
in those companies creating more jobs, investing more capital, buying 
more products, and raising wages for workers. So making our companies 
competitive globally is exceedingly important.
  I have heard many of my colleagues say that statistics show that many 
American families can't even come up with $400 for an emergency 
expenditure in their family. That is almost a flat tire and the towing 
expense to get your car fixed so you can go to work or take your kids 
to school or get to your job and get to your church. I think the tax 
reform bill in the Senate meets many of these objectives.
  The nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation has found that the bill 
would provide tax relief to Americans in every single income category, 
with the largest percent--and this was after working the bill over 
several months--going where it should go, which is to the middle-income 
earner.
  The Tax Foundation has also found that with the Senate bill, as many 
as 925,000 new jobs can be created. That is significant. That is 
significant because, I believe, some of those jobs--and I would hope a 
great deal of them--would land in the great State of West Virginia.
  In West Virginia, the studies showed that the average middle-income 
family would gain $1,952 in after-tax income, and the job creation for 
the State of West Virginia would be 4,784 jobs in our State. For some 
people, that might not sound like very much, but in our State, that is 
significant. It is almost 5,000 more jobs. I will take them. We will 
take them, and we will provide good workers for them, too. And $1,900 
more from your taxes is a major infusion of cash into a family, to make 
the decisions they want, which they make around their kitchen tables, 
not the decisions that we are making here on the floor.
  Yesterday I heard from members of the West Virginia Chamber of 
Commerce. Steve Roberts, who is the president of that group, said that 
the current system is full of ``negative consequences'' and reduces a 
business's ability to hire new workers, invest in inventory and 
equipment, and boost employee pay.
  These are the hallmarks. What he is saying here is that the 
``negative consequences'' are the hallmarks of what we are fixing and 
what we are reforming in this bill. He noted:

       Employers are eager to grow, reinvest and reward employees 
     with better wages. We hope Congress will act quickly to 
     reduce and simplify taxes ensuring a stronger [and] more 
     economically vigorous nation.

  This is something I don't think we talk about, either. If we had 
economic security in our families and economic security in this 
country, we would be stronger in a lot of ways that go beyond being 
stronger economically. In your family, if you have a decision that you 
have to make and you have to come up with some emergency funds, if you 
have to borrow or try to figure out a way to make ends meet, it makes 
you feel weaker. If you can do it yourself, you are stronger. That is 
what we are doing in this bill.
  Also, I want to talk about the transparency here. We are hearing 
criticisms that this is coming in the dead of night, that nobody has 
ever heard of it. Nothing could be further from the truth. The Finance 
Committee alone has held 70 hearings on this since the year 2011. 
Senators from both parties have had the opportunity to weigh in, 
experts from both inside the Capitol and outside the Capitol. Right 
now, it is undergoing a full markup in committee, and the House has 
gone through the same procedure. This has been done in the total light 
of day. This is how legislation is made. So I am very pleased that 
these tax reform principles in this bill are moving through our Senate.

  We know that the President is very enthusiastic about this. He will 
sign a bill that will grow our economy and benefit whom he wants it to 
benefit and whom we all want it to--middle-income families.
  Each Senator has a choice here. We all have our choices. My friends 
from South Dakota and Oklahoma and Louisiana and Colorado, who are on 
the floor with me, as well as the Presiding Officer, who is from 
Arkansas, have choices every day. You can either cling to the status 
quo and say that, yes, everything is working well or you could really 
grab this and say that this is good--this is good policy; this is good 
politics; it will make our country stronger and our families stronger. 
This will help our small businesses thrive, create more jobs, and raise 
wages. Above all else, this will benefit our families. I think that it 
allows for more growth and more opportunity.
  The people whom I represent want this. They want to have more of 
their money at the end of the day to be able to make their own 
decisions. They want their good, hard work rewarded. They want to see a 
country that grows and is optimistic and is strong and powerful. 
Economic strength can give us that.
  I just heard from a 70-year-old postal worker from Wheeling, WV. He 
wrote to me: ``The Senate needs to get these tax cuts and tax reform 
done.'' That is the simple way that most people communicate in this 
country. I understand that. I hope our friends on the other side of the 
aisle understand that.

[[Page S7239]]

  It would be great to have us join together as a Senate, as a country, 
to do something we know is going to have the right consequences and the 
right results of growing this country and providing the relief that 
people want with a well-studied process, with well-researched data, and 
with the power of the American people behind us.
  Thank you.
  I now yield to my colleague from Colorado and thank him again for 
leading this.
  Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from West Virginia.
  I ask unanimous consent that at 2:50 p.m., Senator Rounds be 
recognized as the leader of the colloquy.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The Senator from Oklahoma.
  Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, our economy has been stuck between 1.4- 
and 1.9-percent growth over the last 10 years. Compare that to the 10-
year cycles before that, over and over again, all the way back to the 
Great Depression. Every group in a 10-year block was at 3 percent or 
more growth. Literally, we have had half the growth in our economy over 
the last 10 years than we have had in any 10-year time period, going 
all the way back to the Great Depression. We have to be able to deal 
with that.
  I hear people over and over again say that regulations are choking 
our businesses and are driving up the cost of products for consumers. 
Yet our Tax Code is full of loopholes, and it is full of confusion. It 
is complicated. When I go through to fill out my individual taxes, it 
seems as though there are deductions for everybody else but for me, and 
people want to get that fixed. Quite frankly, no one likes paying 
taxes, and everyone wants to make sure that whatever taxes they pay are 
spent efficiently and are the lowest possible. I cannot tell them that 
right now because the spending is not on track and is not efficient. I 
also cannot tell them that they are as low as possible. We need to fix 
that.
  The tax reform that we are discussing in the Senate right now deals 
with some very basic things. It begins with more take-home pay for 
individuals. You can either be paid more by an employer or you can be 
taxed less by the government. Either one of those increases the take-
home pay. This solves the ``tax less'' by the government so that 
individuals can have more take-home pay--around $100 a month. That is 
serious money for most Oklahomans to have going back to their families.
  The way that happens is by starting with the standard deduction that 
doubles, which is $24,000. To say it flat, if you make between zero and 
$24,000 as a family, you wouldn't have any tax at all on that first 
$24,000. That is a great help. Your tax does not even begin at all 
until after $24,000. You would be in that zero percent bracket.
  We double the Child Tax Credit. For families who are raising kids, it 
is exceptionally helpful for them to have a larger tax credit.
  Then we take out the individual mandate in ObamaCare.
  We have already had folks who have asked: What does ObamaCare have to 
do with tax policy?
  Let me tell you, very simply, that the individual mandate is a tax. 
That is what the Supreme Court labeled it as, and that is what 
individuals understand it to be. If you don't buy the type of insurance 
of which Washington, DC, approves--and you may sign up for different 
insurance--you will get an additional tax penalty on your taxes.
  Who pays for that?
  In Oklahoma, 81 percent of the people who pay the individual mandate 
tax penalty make $50,000 or less a year. It is a tax aimed directly at 
the middle class.
  I think that this is unfair. We want to remove that tax penalty from 
the middle class and say that they do not have that penalty and that 
they are allowed to buy insurance they can actually afford.
  What does this mean for jobs?
  If small businesses have a better Tax Code and their passthroughs, 
then they are able to hire additional people. That means more jobs.
  Based on where our economy is right now, the unemployment rate has 
continued to drop over the last several years. At the spot it is right 
now, that means that there is more competition; there is more hiring; 
and more people have to compete for those jobs. That means that 
employers have to pay a little bit more money to get the people to be 
able to do it. That raises wages for people all around the country and 
means additional people who are not working will actually get back to 
work. With more people working and actually paying taxes, it pays for 
itself.
  Getting a growing economy going is essential to us. The way you do 
that is you take care of the Tax Code for small businesses, and you 
take care of the Tax Code for corporate businesses.
  I have had folks who have asked me: If you drop the corporate rate 
from 35 percent to 20 percent, what does that really do?
  Again, it allows those big companies, as well as the small companies, 
to hire more people, to engage in more investment, to build more 
factories, and to buy more machinery. That is what it allows them to be 
able to do to grow their businesses. Yet, on the international stage 
right now, our Tax Code is 35 percent. Compare that to those in other 
countries that are somewhere around 22, 23, 24 percent. Some of them 
are less than that.
  Let me make this simple. If you are going online to buy a shirt and 
if you can see that shirt for $20 on one website or $35 on another 
website, where do you buy the shirt? It will probably be from the one 
that is selling it for $20. If you are starting a business or founding 
a business, and you can go to one spot where the tax rate is 20 percent 
or to another spot where it is 35 percent, guess where you will found 
the business. It will be where it is lower.
  We are the higher rate right now. If we don't fix that, businesses 
are going to continue to move overseas. We can make fun of them in the 
news. We can yell at them and tell them that they are un-American, but 
they are going to continue to move where they pay less, exactly as 
every American does with his online shopping. That is fixable.
  In the middle of all of this, we have to deal with the debt and 
deficit. We cannot ignore that reality. The things that I am still 
going through in the proposal that we are working through right now are 
the things that are unrealistic in the proposal because, at the end of 
the day, we have to get the economy growing again, but we have to deal 
with half a trillion dollars in overspending from this government right 
now. We can do both. We have to be able to do both.
  I am encouraging this body to take seriously a proposal to be able to 
deal with how we get our economy going again. Let's figure out how to 
get it done, and then let's actually solve this for the American 
people.
  I yield to the Senator from South Dakota.
  Mr. ROUNDS. Mr. President, I thank our colleague from Oklahoma for 
his remarks.
  Once again, he has talked about some commonsense solutions to our tax 
challenges in the United States today.
  At this time, I recognize Senator Cassidy, of Louisiana, for his 
thoughts concerning what we have to do to fix our tax challenges within 
our country.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Louisiana.
  Mr. CASSIDY. Mr. President, the last 8 years were really hard for a 
lot of families. They have seen their wages stagnate and their benefits 
not go up. Indeed, what they have been paying for health insurance and 
flood insurance and many other things has risen even though their wages 
have not. So the goal of this bill is to decrease taxes on those 
middle-income, working families in order to give them the opportunity 
to have better wages, better benefits, and to bring relief to 
situations that are peculiar. Are they peculiar to Louisiana? No, they 
are not peculiar to Louisiana, and I will elaborate on that in just a 
second.
  What could middle-class families in Louisiana do with better wages? 
They could pay off debt. They could provide more for their children. 
They could just live life a little bit more robustly and not have to, 
perhaps, move out of one home and into another because they can no 
longer afford the mortgage on the first. The goal of this is, first, to 
bring tax relief to working families and middle-class families. It is 
all part of an effort to cut taxes particularly for them.
  Now let's talk about raising their wages. Folks want to have more 
money in their take-home pay after taxes, but

[[Page S7240]]

they also want to have higher wages and better benefits. This bill 
definitely creates that.
  Our current Tax Code encourages companies to move overseas. When they 
earn money overseas, they keep it there and build plants and factories 
in other countries. They employ folks in other countries but do not 
bring that money home, employ Americans, or raise wages or give better 
benefits to those Americans. This changes that. Not only do we have tax 
cuts for the middle class, for working families, but we also encourage 
businesses to invest here, to create better paying jobs here.
  I have heard some say: Well, wait a second. Unemployment is low now. 
Why does it matter?
  Now is the time when workers most benefit if there is investment that 
creates more opportunity for those here in the United States. If there 
is a worker who is a welder and if he can either work here or there, 
businesses are going to bid for his services. They are going to pay 
more to get him to work. As they do that, just from supply and demand, 
wages will go up for the average American worker, for the average 
American family. Benefits will rise for those families, and the 
children of those families will have more opportunity. This is what 
that is about.
  There is another way in which we bring relief to those middle-income 
families. Part of what we are doing here is repealing the mandate of 
the Affordable Care Act. Americans hate the government's telling them 
what to do. Yet, as part of the ObamaCare mandate, it tells someone: 
Even if you cannot afford that insurance, even if you don't buy it, we 
are going to make you pay a fine.
  In 2015, more than 100,000 folks in Louisiana paid a fine for not 
having health insurance, and 37 percent--almost 40 percent--of those 
folks had an adjusted gross income of less than $25,000; 78 percent had 
less than $50,000. Think about this. The families who report incomes of 
$50,000 or less cannot afford insurance, and they are having to pay a 
fine because they have not. They are not millionaires or billionaires. 
These are families who are trying to make ends meet, who make a 
decision because the exchange policies are too expensive for them to 
buy, and now they are getting fined. This is part of the relief we are 
bringing to those working families by getting rid of that mandate.
  Lastly, there is another form of relief. Louisiana had its great 
flood of 2016, which was similar to Maria, Irma, and Harvey, but this 
was an unnamed storm that affected tens of thousands of people. Through 
this bill, we bring disaster relief to the folks in Louisiana. They 
will be able to deduct their losses from their incomes, which will 
allow them to rebuild their homes and allow them to rebuild their 
businesses. As they rebuild those businesses, it will allow them to 
employ those who need jobs so that they may rebuild their homes and 
their lives.
  This bill will cut taxes for those families. It will increase their 
wages and bring relief not only from economic stagnation but also from 
a natural disaster that was one of the most expensive storms in our 
Nation's history.
  I am very pleased that this bill is advancing, and I look forward to 
it being passed. I look forward, most of all, to the increased wages, 
lower taxes, and the relief that it will bring to those families in 
Louisiana.
  I now yield the floor to the Senator from South Dakota.
  Mr. ROUNDS. Mr. President, I thank Senator Cassidy for his words.
  Senator Cassidy is also a Member of what we call our bear den, the 
class of 2014. He came here with the idea of getting things done.
  Another Member of the class of 2014 who is with us today is the 
Senator from Alaska, Mr. Sullivan. Senator Sullivan comes with a fine 
and distinguished career in his having worked in the U.S. military, but 
he also has a strong interest in seeing economic development in the 
United States continue. He recognizes the need for tax relief.
  At this time, I turn to Senator Sullivan.
  Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I thank Senator Rounds, and I appreciate 
all my colleagues coming down to the floor. A lot of my colleagues are 
from the class of 2014.
  Mr. President, there has been a theme in this colloquy. We have been 
talking about economic growth and about this challenge of what I have 
been referring to as a lost decade of economic growth. When talking 
about tax reform, we have to go back through the history and see what 
is meant by a lost decade.
  I have been coming down to the floor for a couple of years now with 
this chart. This chart says a lot. This chart looks at the history of 
the United States and where we have been with regard to economic 
growth. It is bipartisan--Democratic and Republican administrations--
showing decade after decade, starting with Presidents Eisenhower, 
Kennedy, Johnson, Nixon, and what this chart states is that right now, 
something is wrong.
  When we talk about GDP growth, GDP growth is a proxy for the health 
of the economy. Unfortunately, we have had a sick economy. GDP growth 
is a proxy for the American dream, and unfortunately I think that a lot 
of people over the last 10 years started to worry about whether it was 
something that can be obtained.
  Let's look at the chart. Every administration, Democratic or 
Republican, shows strong levels of growth. My colleagues were talking 
about at least 3 percent or higher since the Great Depression. Some of 
these years, during Kennedy and Johnson, right here, the red line is at 
3 percent, which is not great, but it is pretty good. Looking at Reagan 
and Carter, there were years in which we were growing at 4, 5, 6, and 7 
percent.
  The pages are looking at this chart, and they don't even know what 
that means. They don't know what that means because of what has 
happened over the last 12 years. Boom. Look at this. Everything is 
under 3 percent for the entire Obama administration years. It never hit 
3 percent GDP growth--not once.
  We want to talk about what makes America great. If we want to see 
what makes America great, look at these years of growth. It doesn't 
matter whether it was Democratic or Republican--3, 4, 5, 8 percent 
during the Johnson administration. Now look--3 percent.
  What is surprising to me is that nobody talks about this issue. 
Nobody talks about this issue of a lost decade of growth. Certainly, 
unfortunately, my colleagues--I have been here 3 years. I don't think I 
have heard my colleagues once come down to the Senate floor and say: 
Holy cow, we have to fix this lost decade of growth, this sick economy. 
The proxy for the American dream is going away, and nobody talks about 
it.
  Former Senator and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton recently wrote 
a book titled ``What Happened.'' Well, I think what happened is that 
there has been no growth for over 10 years, and nobody was talking 
about it. I think a lot of people in this country said: I am not going 
to throw away the American dream.
  I believe in the American dream. The American dream means we have to 
start growing at traditional levels of U.S. economic growth, at least 
above this depicted red line of 3 percent. I am optimistic because 
right now, for the first time in a long time, this body is very focused 
on this issue with policies that will hopefully get us there, including 
tax reform, regulatory reform, taking advantage of our huge energy 
opportunities, and many other measures. That is why this discussion and 
this debate we are having now with regard to tax reform is so 
critical--tax relief for middle-class families, tax relief for small 
businesses. And this bill, as we have heard, has many provisions that 
we think are going to help jump-start this economy and get us back to 
at least 3 percent growth, at least this number where the red line is 
that we haven't seen in well over a decade.
  The kinds of policies that we are pursuing now, that the White House 
is focused on--tax reform, energy, permitting reform--I would think and 
hope that every Member of this body views this as probably the most 
important thing we can do--growing the U.S. economy with policies that 
have widespread support across the country. They certainly have support 
in my State of Alaska.
  I am also optimistic because the Trump administration is off to a 
good start. This chart goes to the end of the Obama administration, and 
we can see that we never came even close to 3 percent. But the last two 
quarters of 2017,

[[Page S7241]]

we actually hit 3 percent--3.1 percent and 3 percent. We are off to a 
decent start.
  But this body must do much more, and I am hopeful that my colleagues 
on the other side of the aisle will come down and talk about how 
important this is because every American agrees with this. Growing the 
economy again and tax reform are going to be critical components of 
getting us there.
  I say to Senator Rounds, I appreciate the opportunity to say a few 
words on this important topic. We will be down here again, but growth, 
growth, growth has to be what we are focused on.
  Mr. ROUNDS. Mr. President, I would like to take this opportunity to 
thank Senator Sullivan from Alaska. Once again, he comes in from the 
class of 2014.
  We have a specific request to basically talk about what we see as 
being the appropriate way in which we create a healthy economy.
  I see that our colleague from Iowa has arrived, and if our colleague 
from Iowa, Senator Ernst, would care to speak, we would love to have 
her do that as well.
  Part of what Senator Sullivan has shared with us today is the move to 
get back to a growth of 3 percent, and in doing so, not only does that 
begin to move back into what most Americans would consider to be a 
healthy economy in which they can actually see their own families doing 
better, but we will also see better movement in terms of shortfalls in 
revenues coming into the Federal Government.
  With that, let me welcome to the floor Senator Ernst of Iowa, who 
also is a Member of the class of 2014.
  Senator Ernst.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Iowa.
  Mrs. ERNST. Mr. President, thank you very much.
  Mr. President, I appreciate the point made by the Senator from South 
Dakota, and I am glad to join in this conversation this afternoon.
  About a decade ago, the worst economic recession since the Great 
Depression devastated our middle class households and families across 
the country. In its aftermath, our economy consistently underachieved.
  Last year, the United States saw less than a 2-percent increase in 
the amount of goods and services we produce. The reason is our stagnant 
economy, which suffers from an outdated tax system that stifles 
economic growth through high tax rates and an unreasonable compliance 
burden. Small businesses, which I am partial to because they make up 
about 97 percent of employers in Iowa, are taxed as much as 44.6 
percent on their profits. Every year, these job creators spend over $18 
billion just to comply with Federal tax laws and regulations.
  Middle-class families and individuals around this country need some 
relief. By streamlining our cumbersome tax system and eliminating 
loopholes that primarily benefit the wealthy, Congress has an 
opportunity to lower tax rates for middle and lower income wage 
earners. Likewise, by creating a more competitive tax system for 
businesses, we can foster greater growth and investment in the United 
States and boost wages for more Iowans.
  Tax reform also provides Congress with an opportunity to lead by 
example and offer up its own unnecessary tax break. That is why I 
introduced the Stop Questionable, Unnecessary, and Excessive Allowances 
for Legislators Act, also known as the SQUEAL Act. This legislation 
would eliminate a provision of the Tax Code that allows Members of 
Congress to deduct up to $3,000 annually in living expenses that they 
incur while in Washington, DC. As we seek to achieve the ultimate goal 
of lowering rates for families and small businesses, Congress should 
start by eliminating handouts to our politicians.
  It is long overdue for our country to pursue a simpler tax code that 
provides much needed relief for hard-working Iowans and that puts our 
economy back on track. I look forward to working with my colleagues on 
a path forward that reduces the burden of a complicated tax system--the 
burden that is placed upon our families, our hard-working individuals, 
and our small businesses.
  With that, I will turn the floor back over to the distinguished 
Member from South Dakota, and I thank him for accommodating the Members 
of our class. We are hopeful that we will be able to move forward with 
smart, effective tax reform.
  Mr. ROUNDS. Mr. President, I would like to take this opportunity to 
express my appreciation to the Senator from Iowa for her remarks. Once 
again, we call this midwestern common sense.
  Let me finish this colloquy today with a few thoughts.
  First of all, we want tax reform, but what we want first is a 
healthier economy. That is what the people of the United States want. 
They want the ability to compete. Over the last 10 years, there have 
been 4,700 businesses that have left our shores and moved overseas. The 
reason is that they can survive better by leaving our country and going 
someplace else because of the tax consequences of doing so.
  When we talk about the direction in which we want to go in this 
country, we want the people of America to understand that our goal with 
this entire package is to make things better for the American public. 
That means a healthier economy for them. It also means, by doing so, 
that they will see the bottom line in their own pockets--more money 
that they can spend that otherwise would go to the Federal Government.
  At the same time, businesses that may have left and taken their jobs 
and the opportunities to invest their dollars--we want them back in the 
United States again, hiring more people and paying better wages. We 
think that over the last 10 years, the American public hasn't seen 
those higher wages because the competition for jobs has moved offshore 
into other parts of the world where there is a more competitive tax 
climate.
  There is something else we have to point out. We recognize at the 
Federal level that we have a deficit and that we have not been able to 
break that deficit.
  Today we have a deficit that is in excess of $500 billion. Out of the 
$4.1 trillion in total payments that are out there, that we spend on an 
annual basis, our omnibus bill, as we call it--that is for the defense 
and nondefense discretionary side of the formula--we vote on $1.1 
trillion of the $4 trillion. There is about $3 trillion that is 
automatic, that is on auto pilot--Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, 
interest on the debt.
  If we want to close that gap, then we have to see an economy which is 
growing, an economy which can support the programs that we believe are 
necessary, the safety nets that we in America have decided are very 
appropriate for those who have no place else to go. If we want to close 
the deficit, we need to have more revenues coming in. The only way we 
can pick up more revenues is by having an economy that is strong enough 
to support that.
  By actually reducing taxes, we bring in more businesses, and those 
businesses will make more profits. We are able to lower the rate of tax 
on profits, and that is returned to the American people in a number of 
ways--a lower tax burden through lower personal income taxes and 
through subchapter C and S corporations, through lower business taxes.
  Finally and just as importantly, in terms of how we support the 
operations of government, we support that because with a growing 
economy, the revenue coming from that growing economy can be utilized 
to eliminate the debt, which is a threat to our national defense.
  Mr. President, at this time, I thank my colleagues who have patiently 
worked their way through this process. I also thank the Senator from 
Colorado for beginning this colloquy.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Toomey). The Senator from Rhode Island.
  Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, I was very pleased to be here for the 
remarks of my colleagues and friends, and I would just respond by 
saying that we are all for growth. We are all for growth of the 
American economy. I think, on this side, we are just a little bit less 
sure that you grow the economy by growing the share of the economy that 
goes to the superrich and to big corporations or that you grow the 
economy by growing benefits to corporations that move jobs from America 
overseas, and I am pretty confident that on our side we don't believe 
the

[[Page S7242]]

solution to the deficit is a tax bill that raises the deficit.


                             Climate Change

  Mr. President, I am here to talk about the U.N. Climate Change 
Conference that we just got back from in Germany, where the United 
States stood alone as the only Nation in the world--Syria and Nicaragua 
having left us--not a party to the historic Paris Agreement. Led by 
Senator Cardin, my colleagues Senators Markey, Schatz, Merkley, and I 
went to Bonn to tell the nations gathered there that the Trump 
administration does not represent American views on this issue, nor 
American determination to tackle the climate challenge. It was not just 
us who went there to say we are still in. American Governors, mayors, 
universities, and major corporations all brought the same message that 
notwithstanding the Trump administration's efforts to separate us from 
the Paris goal, we are still in.
  The urgency of the experts at our Nation's universities and Federal 
agencies is reflected in a major multi-agency climate report that was 
released last week and makes an astounding contrast to the position 
taken by the Trump administration. The ``Climate Science Special 
Report'' will serve as the scientific backbone for the ``Fourth 
National Climate Assessment'' due next year. The authors list is a 
who's who of top university scientists and Agency experts from NOAA, 
the EPA, NASA, our National Labs, the National Science Foundation, and 
the Departments of Agriculture, Defense, Energy, Commerce, Interior, 
and State--in all, 13 Federal Agencies and Departments. This report was 
also peer-reviewed by our American National Academy of Sciences. The 
New York Times properly described it as ``the United States' most 
definitive statement on climate change science.''
  The report wastes no time getting to the heart of what is causing 
climate change. It states:

       This assessment concludes, based on extensive evidence, 
     that it is extremely likely that human activities, especially 
     emissions from greenhouse gases, are the dominant cause of 
     the observed warming since the mid-20th century.

  It goes on to say:

       The magnitude of climate change beyond the next few decades 
     will depend primarily on the amount of greenhouse gases 
     (especially carbon dioxide) emitted globally.

  Further it says:

       There is broad consensus that the further and faster the 
     Earth system is pushed towards warming, the greater the risk 
     of unanticipated changes and impacts, some of which are 
     potentially large and irreversible.

  In a 2016 interview, President Trump said there is ``some 
connectivity'' between human activity and climate change, but, he said, 
``you can make lots of cases for different views.'' Well, the President 
ought to read his administration's own report. There is more than just 
``some connectivity.'' To quote the report, ``For the warming over the 
last century, there is no convincing alternative explanation supported 
by the extent of the observational evidence,'' but this 
administration's industry hacks are not paying attention, and instead 
of helping, they are out busily doing things like deleting the words 
``climate change'' from Agency websites. The Washington Post reported 
in September that EPA public affairs officer John Kronkus ``told staff 
that he is on the lookout for `the double C-word'--climate change--and 
repeatedly has instructed grant officers to eliminate references to the 
subject in solicitations.''
  Maybe they think if they crawl under the bed and scrub out the words 
``climate change,'' the scientific phenomenon will disappear, but in 
science it actually doesn't work that way.
  Over at the Department of Energy is Secretary Rick Perry, who called 
climate change a ``contrived, phony mess'' in his 2010 book. He 
backtracked his position in his January confirmation hearings but still 
said he ``believe[s] some of it is naturally occurring, but some of it 
is also man-made activity.'' Well, the Energy Secretary might want to 
read the report. Manmade activity is not some of it; it is the dominant 
cause.
  Then there is EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt, who said about human 
activity causing climate change: ``There's tremendous disagreement 
about the degree of impact, so no, I would not agree that it's a 
primary contributor to the global warming that we see.'' The EPA 
Administrator needs to read the report too. He is wrong and wrong. 
``Dominant'' is what the report says with ``no convincing 
alternative.''
  If Perry or Pruitt bothered to look at the report their staffs helped 
write, they would see this graph: ``Human Activities Are the Primary 
Driver of Recent Global Temperature Rise.'' This is the human activity 
column, this is solar effects, and this is volcanic effects.
  Every once in a while somebody says: Oh, it is the volcanoes that are 
doing it; it is not us. It turns out volcanoes are actually having a 
slight cooling effect.
  People say: No, it is solar radiation; it is not us. You can barely 
see the amount of solar radiation warming.
  All of this is human-caused climate change. It is more than dominant. 
You can barely see other factors up against it.
  As for Pruitt's claim that humans are not ``a primary contributor to 
the global warming that we see,'' well, you can turn to the report's 
page 31: ``Human activities are now the dominant cause of the observed 
trends in climate.'' Flip forward to page 36, and it states: ``Many 
lines of evidence demonstrate human activities, especially emissions of 
greenhouse gases, are primarily responsible.''
  So, Administrator Pruitt, humans are not a primary contributor. The 
actual science shows ``human activities, especially emissions of 
greenhouse gases, are primarily responsible for the observed climate 
changes in the Industrial era, especially over the last six decades.''
  You could flip to the next page where it says: ``[T]here are no 
suggested factors, even speculative ones that can explain the timing or 
magnitude'' of what is happening in the climate or ``that would somehow 
cancel out the role of human factors.''
  Just last week, Kathleen Hartnett White rolled into the Environment 
and Public Works Committee out of the President's climate denial clown 
car. White is a prolific climate denier from the fossil fuel-funded 
Texas Public Policy Foundation. She wrote that carbon pollution in the 
atmosphere is ``unquestionably a huge social benefit.'' Unquestionably 
a huge social benefit? OK. She also compared climate science to a 
``cult,'' which kind of lines her up a little bit with that Heartland 
Institute that has compared climate scientists to the Unabomber, just 
to give you an idea of the intellectual rigor of the climate denial 
arguments. Now she is up for consideration as chair of the White House 
Council on Environmental Quality.
  In responding to our questions, Ms. White was, let's just say, a 
little at a loss. She responded, for instance, that she has ``a very 
superficial understanding'' of ocean issues. She said on ocean 
acidification that there ``are different perspectives'' and that 
acidity ``changes up and down are not inherently a problem.'' Well, 
Kathleen Hartnett White needs to read this report too.
  According to the Climate Science Special Report, ``The world's oceans 
are currently absorbing more than a quarter of the CO2 
emitted to the atmosphere annually from human activities, making them 
more acidic . . . with potential detrimental impacts to marine 
ecosystems.''
  How much more acidic are the oceans being made by the absorption of 
CO2? The report goes on to say that ``the rate of 
acidification is unparalleled in at least the 66 million years.''
  Sixty-six million years is way before humankind even existed. That is 
the kind of dice we are rolling with ocean acidification.
  I pressed Ms. White on how much of the heat greenhouse gas emissions 
add to the atmosphere is absorbed by the oceans. She couldn't even tell 
me if it was more or less than half of it. Yet she insisted she knew 
there ``are differences of opinion on that, that there's not one right 
answer.'' So, in a nutshell, she doesn't know what the science is, but 
she sure knows that it is wrong.
  Well, there actually is one right answer, and wouldn't you know it, 
it is in the Climate Science Special Report, which says: ``Not only has 
ocean heat content increased dramatically, but more than 90 percent of 
the energy gained in the combined ocean-atmosphere system over recent 
decades has

[[Page S7243]]

gone into the ocean.'' In fact, to be more precise, it is 93 percent. 
By the way, that is heating the oceans at a rate greater than setting 
off a Hiroshima-style nuclear bomb in the oceans and having all of the 
heat of the nuclear explosion absorbed by the oceans, more than one 
explosion per second. So it is quite a heat transfer.
  I asked Ms. White about a basic scientific principle: Do you think if 
the ocean warms it expands? Does the law of thermal expansion apply to 
seawater?
  After a long pause, she replied, ``Again, I do not have any kind of 
expertise or even such layman's study of the ocean dynamics and the 
climate change issues.'' For somebody who wants to lead the White House 
Council on Environmental Quality and help guide the science in this 
area, it is a pretty rudimentary scientific principle that water 
expands as it warms. If you can't grasp that, good luck grasping the 
risks that sea level rise poses to coastal communities like ours in 
Rhode Island.
  The ``Climate Science Special Report'' states that ``it is virtually 
certain that sea level rise this century and beyond will pose a growing 
challenge to coastal communities, infrastructure, and ecosystems.'' 
Rhode Island has coastal communities, infrastructure, and ecosystems so 
this challenge is very real for my home State.
  Climate change, sea level rise, and ocean acidification are 
challenges that require smart leadership and initiative. We need to 
take action to bolster our infrastructure, fortify our coasts, and help 
communities prepare for those challenges on the horizon. Instead, in 
this administration, we get the likes of Perry, Pruitt, and White.
  I wish ignorance were what is driving these administration officials. 
Ignorance can be rectified with education, with information. We could 
assign them to read the ``Climate Science Special Report,'' for 
instance. They might find it illuminating and realize that what they 
have been saying is factually false. Unfortunately, it is a much more 
nefarious condition than ignorance that afflicts this administration on 
climate change, and it is a condition that cannot be cured with facts.

  This is about fossil fuel money. The malady of fossil fuel money in 
politics is what prevents the stark warnings in the ``Climate Science 
Special Report'' from being a call to action in Congress.
  In Bonn at the COP23 gathering, we saw that the rest of the world is 
not turning a blind eye to climate change. The rest of the world is 
confronting it head-on, along with many American States, many American 
cities, major American corporations, and virtually every major American 
university. Those are all very hopeful signs.
  While our President and his administration have bound themselves to 
the fossil fuel polluters, the American people have not. Rhode 
Islanders and Americans everywhere care deeply about getting ahead of 
this problem--about achieving the goals of the U.N. framework. And the 
American people will carry forward American leadership in combating 
climate change, no matter how evil the continuing influence of the 
fossil fuel industry is in Congress.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The assistant bill clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The Senator from Wyoming.


                               Tax Reform

  Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, the Senate Finance Committee is working 
this week on the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. It is a very important piece of 
legislation that the country is looking forward to having passed.
  This is a Republican plan to give tax relief to the American people. 
Just as the name of the legislation says, it actually addresses both 
issues: tax cuts and jobs.
  First of all, the legislation will cut the taxes for American 
workers. One of the biggest cuts in the plan is that it roughly doubles 
the standard deduction that people take. Right now, the standard 
deduction for a married couple is about $12,000. If we double it, 
people will not pay any Federal income taxes at all on the first 
$24,000 they earn. That is a big tax cut. It is aimed squarely at lower 
income and middle-income families in this country.
  A lot of people will decide to take this deduction instead of going 
through the painstaking process of itemizing deductions on their income 
tax returns. It saves people a lot of time. It also saves them the cost 
of accountants and lawyers who help them figure out the complicated 
taxes that they end up paying in this country each year.
  Republicans are also working to preserve other deductions that are 
important to American families. When we put all of these together, we 
are going to cut taxes for people and put money back in their pockets 
instead of sending it to Washington.
  The second thing to know about this tax relief legislation is that it 
is going to be a big boost for jobs in America. In fact, it will help 
America create more than 900,000 new jobs.
  It is also going to lead to higher pay. That is because the 
legislation will cut the taxes that small businesses have to pay. Small 
businesses create most of the jobs in America. If we let them keep more 
of their money, they can hire people and grow their businesses. That is 
what happens in this country. That is how our economy works; people 
hiring people matter to grow the economy. They can also give workers a 
raise and offer better benefits. When Washington takes less and 
businesses keep more, workers are better off every time.
  Republicans also want to bring down the rates that Washington charges 
other businesses. A lot of people work for small businesses, but a lot 
of people also work for large businesses as well. If we are able to cut 
taxes for those businesses, then those workers can get the same raise. 
How much more money are we talking about? Well, according to the Tax 
Foundation, it amounts to about $2,600 for a typical middle-income 
family. That is what you get when you combine the tax cut and the pay 
raise that people will see across the country. For that family, an 
extra $2,600 is going to be a very big deal. A majority of Americans 
say that they don't have enough savings today to cover a $500 emergency 
expense if one came up.
  Millions of American families will be far better off because of the 
tax relief that Republicans are working on this week. It will boost the 
economy, help individual workers, and help their families. This is 
about tax cuts, and it is about jobs. That is how you keep the economy 
growing. That is how we keep American families thriving.


                      Protecting Veteran Memorials

  Mr. President, I also want to speak about an issue that is very 
important to our veterans in Wyoming and across the country. The 2018 
National Defense Authorization Act conference report includes a 
provision that allows America's veteran memorials to be used as a 
political bargaining chip. I think it is a very bad idea.
  There is a specific provision in this report that allows the 
Secretary of Defense to dismantle a veteran memorial and move it to a 
foreign nation.
  We have one of these memorials at the F.E. Warren Air Force Base in 
Cheyenne, WY. This memorial honors American soldiers who were massacred 
more than 100 years ago in a town called Balangiga in the Philippines. 
On September 28, 1901, a group of 400 Filipino insurgents, armed with 
machetes, attacked American soldiers in Company C of the 9th Infantry. 
It was a sneak attack while the Americans were mostly unarmed and 
having breakfast.
  The insurgents signaled the attack by ringing the bells of the local 
church. Company C had 75 soldiers, and 48 of them were killed in this 
attack or died of their wounds or went missing in action. It was the 
worst defeat for the American Army since the Battle of the Little 
Bighorn in 1876. These bells were used in an act of war against 
American soldiers.
  The Army legally brought the bells back to America to honor the 
troops of Company C who were lost in this massacre. The 11th Infantry 
Regiment brought them to Cheyenne, WY, and today the bells of Balangiga 
are part of the memorial at F.E. Warren Air Force Base.
  Over the years, the Department of Defense and the State Department 
have tried a few times to move these

[[Page S7244]]

bells to the Philippines. In 2012, President Obama's Department of 
Defense even tried to cover up the fact that it was secretly making 
plans to move the bells. I have opposed these efforts every step of the 
way.
  The majority of veterans in Wyoming oppose dismantling this veteran 
memorial. The Wyoming Veterans of Foreign Wars and the American Legion 
have both passed resolutions against moving the bells. The American 
Legion has also taken a stand on the national level. It has opposed the 
removal and encouraged Congress to pass legislation to protect veteran 
memorials.
  During the confirmation hearing for Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, 
I asked him specifically about the bells of Balangiga. He made a 
commitment to me that he would include Congress and our veteran 
organizations in any conversations regarding war memorials.
  I recently received a letter from the State Department, and they said 
that they are unaware of any plans to move the bells to a foreign 
country. We need to make sure that no plans ever develop.
  This conference report will take away any lines of communication 
between the administration and the Congress on this issue. America 
needs to make clear that we will never stop honoring our war dead, no 
matter where or when they sacrificed. To dismantle this memorial would 
be an insult to the memory of the men who were massacred that day in 
the Philippines.
  Wyoming has a strong tradition of honoring our veterans, especially 
those who gave their lives. The United States should not be using our 
veteran memorials as bargaining chips to negotiate with foreign 
nations. For these reasons, I oppose section 2864 of the conference 
report on the National Defense Authorization Act.
  I will continue my work to protect our veteran memorials. I will 
continue to use my voice for the soldiers of Company C who have no 
voice of their own.
  Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the following be printed 
in the Record: the names of the 48 soldiers who were massacred in 1901; 
a letter from the Wyoming Veterans of Foreign Wars; a resolution from 
the Wyoming American Legion in opposition to moving the bells; National 
American Legion Resolution No. 56; a letter from the National American 
Legion in support of Barrasso amendment No. 738; a letter from the 
State Department saying that they are currently not planning to move 
the bells; and Secretary Tillerson's commitment to include Congress and 
our veterans in any discussion of our veteran memorials
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:

   U.S. Army Casualties at Balangiga, Samar, Philippine Islands, 28 
                             September 1901

       Filipino insurgents overran Company C, 9th Infantry, at 
     Balangiga, Samar, on 28 September 1901. On that morning 
     seventy-five soldiers were present with the unit (seventy-
     three members of Company C plus two men attached to the 
     unit). Of these, forty-eight were killed, died of wounds, or 
     were listed as missing and presumed dead (some bodies were 
     burned beyond recognition).
       Key: KIA = killed in action; DoW = died of wounds; MIA = 
     missing and presumed dead.
       Officers: Major R.S. Griswold, Surgeon, KIA; Captain Thomas 
     W. Connell, commander, Company C, KIA; First Lieutenant 
     Edward A. Bumpus, KIA.
       Non-Commissioned Officers: Quartermaster Sergeant James M. 
     Randles, KIA; Sergeant John F. Martin, KIA; Sergeant Henry J. 
     Scharer, KIA; Corporal Frank McCormick, KIA; Corporal Leonard 
     P. Schley, KIA; Corporal Proal Peters, KIA; Corporal Thomas 
     E. Baird, DoW.
       Privates: Gustav F. Schnitzler (cook), KIA; John L. 
     Covington (musician), MIA; Joseph R. Marr (artificer), KIA; 
     Harry Wright (hospital corpsman), MIA; Cornelius F. Donahue, 
     DoW; Jerry J. Driscoll, MIA; Eli Fitzgerald, KIA; John D. 
     Armini, KIA; Litto Armini, KIA; John W. Aydelette, KIA; 
     George Bony, KIA; Robert L. Booth, KIA; John D. Buhrer, KIA; 
     James L. Cain, KIA; Charles E. Davis, KIA; Byron Dent, KIA; 
     Guy C. Dennis, KIA; Patrick J. Dobbins, MIA; Joseph I. 
     Gordon, KIA; Joseph O. Kleinhampl, KIA; Richard Long, KIA; 
     James Martin, KIA; James F. McDermott, KIA; John H. Miller, 
     KIA; Daniel S. Mullins, DoW; August F. Porczeng, MIA; Charles 
     Powers, KIA; Chris F. Recard, DoW; Floyd J Shoemaker, DoW; 
     Evans South, MIA; Robert Sproull, KIA; Charles E. Sterling, 
     KIA; Joseph Turner, KIA; Frank Vobayada, KIA; John Wannebo, 
     KIA; Christian S. Williams, MIA; Claud C. Wingo, MIA; Harry 
     M. Wood, KIA.


                                Sources

       Annual Reports of the War Department for the Fiscal Year 
     Ended June 30, 1902, Vol. IX (Washington, D.C.: Government 
     Printing Office, 1902), pp. 628-32.
       Fred R. Brown, History of the Ninth U.S. Infantry (Chicago, 
     Ill.: R.R. Donnelley & Sons, 1909), pp. 621-22.
                                  ____

         Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States Department 
           of Wyoming Headquarters,
                                        Casper, WY, June 12, 2012.
     Hon. John Barrasso, MD,
     U.S. Senate,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Senator Barrasso: At the Department of Wyoming VFW, 
     79th Annual State Convention, June 9, 2012, the membership 
     voted on and passed a resolution concerning the Balangiga 
     Bells currently located on F.E. Warren Air Base, Cheyenne, 
     Wyoming.
       ``Be it Resolved that the Veterans of Foreign Wars, 
     Department of Wyoming strongly support keeping the Balangiga 
     Bells here in Wyoming at the F.E. Warren Air Base, Cheyenne, 
     Wyoming. Also, the membership is against any compromise that 
     would in any way change the status or location of these or 
     any ``War Trophy'' currently held by the United States of 
     America''.
       This Resolution will remain in effect unless changed by the 
     full membership at a State Convention.
           For the Commander,

                                               Bob DeBernardo,

                                        Adjutant Dept. of Wyoming,
     Member National Legislative Committee.
                                  ____


   The American Legion Department of Wyoming Headquarters, Cheyenne, 
                                Wyoming


                               resolution

Subject: Protection, Preservation and Retention of Federal and Military 
                     Monuments in the United States

       Whereas, At different times through history there have been 
     attempts by either the Filipino government or other groups to 
     petition the United States Government for the return of the 
     church bells taken by American military forces from the 
     belfry of the church in Balangiga, Samar, Philippines; and
       Whereas, Any return of a Federal or military monument by 
     the United States of America would set a negative and 
     dangerous precedent on any and all Federal or military 
     monuments; and
       Whereas, Military monuments honor those servicemen and 
     servicewomen whose sacrifice for the United States of America 
     has preserved the nation and recognizes those who have 
     sacrificed their lives in service to their country; and
       Whereas, Returning any military monument should never be 
     considered as contributing to the enhancement or 
     reaffirmation of any friendly relationship with foreign 
     countries; now, therefore, be it
       Resolved, by The American Legion, Department of Wyoming 
     Executive Committee through mail in vote on 14 March 2012, 
     that The American Legion, Department of Wyoming urge the 
     Congress of the United States to establish such laws to 
     preserve and protect all Federal and military monuments 
     within the United States from any foreign government or 
     religious order who attempts to have any Federal and military 
     monument removed from the United States of America. And be it
       Finally Resolved: That this resolution be forwarded to the 
     National Executive Committee for action in May 2012.
                                  ____

                                            Ninety-Eighth National


                            Convention of the American Legion,

                     Cincinnati, Ohio, Aug. 30, 31, Sept. 1, 2016.
       Resolution No. 56: Protection, Preservation and Retention 
     of Federal and Military Monuments in the United States.
       Origin: Wyoming.
       Submitted by: Convention Committee on National Security 
     (Consolidated with Resolution No. 27 (NE)).
       Whereas, At different times through history there have been 
     attempts by either the Filipino government or other groups to 
     petition the United States government for the return of the 
     church bells taken by American military forces from the 
     belfry of the church in Balangiga, Samar, Philippines; and
       Whereas, Any return of a federal or military monument by 
     the United States of America would set a negative and 
     dangerous precedent on any and all federal or military 
     monuments; and
       Whereas, Military monuments honor those servicemen and 
     servicewomen whose sacrifice for the United States of America 
     has preserved the nation and recognizes those who have 
     sacrificed their lives in service to their country; and
       Whereas, Returning any military monument should never be 
     considered as contributing to the enhancement or 
     reaffirmation of any friendly relationship with foreign 
     countries; now, therefore, be it
       Resolved, By The American Legion in National Convention 
     assembled in Cincinnati, Ohio, August 30, 31, September 1, 
     2016, That The American Legion urge the Congress of the 
     United States to establish such laws to preserve, protect and 
     retain all federal and military monuments within the United 
     States from any foreign government or religious order who 
     attempts to have any federal and military monument removed 
     from the United States of America.
                                  ____

                                              The American Legion,


                             Office of the National Commander,

                               Washington, DC, September 14, 2017.
     Hon. John Barrasso,
     U.S. Senate,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Senator Barrasso: On behalf of the 2 million members 
     of The American Legion,

[[Page S7245]]

     we express support for Amendment Number 738 proposed for 
     inclusion in the 2018 National Defense Authorization Act 
     (NDAA), as written. If adopted, this amendment would require 
     Congressional authorization to move war memorials overseas 
     and prohibit moving the Bells of Balangiga from F.E. Warren 
     Air Force Base in Cheyenne, WY to the Philippines absent such 
     authorization, The American Legion was proud to support your 
     amendment to the 2013 NDAA that requires Congressional 
     authorization to move war memorials overseas. As you know, 
     that prohibition expires September 30, 2017.
       For more than two decades, there have been attempts by 
     either the Filipino government or other groups to petition 
     the United States government for the return of the church 
     bells taken by American military forces from the belfry of 
     the church in Balangiga, Samar, Philippines in 1901 during 
     the Philippine American War. Military monuments honor those 
     servicemen and servicewomen whose sacrifice for this country 
     has preserved the nation and recognizes those who have 
     sacrificed their lives in service to their country. Returning 
     any military monument should never be considered as 
     contributing to the enhancement or reaffirmation of any 
     friendly relationship with foreign countries.
       The American Legion Resolution 56, Protection, Preservation 
     and Retention of Federal and Military Monuments in the United 
     States, passed at the 2016 National Convention, urges 
     Congress to establish such laws to preserve, protect and 
     retain all federal and military monuments within the United 
     States from any foreign government or religious order who 
     attempts to have any federal and military monument removed 
     from the United States of America.
       Again, The American Legion supports Amendment Number 738, 
     and we thank you for addressing this important issue facing 
     America's servicemembers and veterans.
           Sincerely,
                                                  Denise H. Rohan,
     National Commander.
                                  ____



                                     U.S. Department of State,

                                 Washington, DC, November 2, 2017.
     Hon. John Barrasso,
     U.S. Senate,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Senator Barrasso: Thank you for your letter of 
     September 6 to the President regarding the Bells of 
     Balangiga. We were asked to respond on the President's 
     behalf.
       We celebrate the proud and distinguished service of 
     Wyoming's Sons and Daughters to our great nation, and we are 
     humbled and grateful for the service and sacrifice America's 
     Veterans have made in support of liberty and freedom at home 
     and abroad.
       We understand and appreciate the importance of war 
     memorials, and we share your concern that memorials be 
     properly managed and the service and sacrifice of fallen 
     Americans and Veterans be recognized and honored 
     appropriately.
       The Department of State is not aware of, nor involved in, 
     any immediate plans to the remove or dismantle the Veteran's 
     War Memorial, including the Bells of Balangiga, from F.E. 
     Warren Air Force Base.
       There is a specific war memorial provision included in the 
     House version of the FY 18 National Defense Authorization Act 
     (NDAA), and the House and Senate versions of the NDAA bills 
     are currently in conference committee. For more information 
     about that provision or activities on F.E. Warren Air Force 
     Base we respectfully refer you to the Department of Defense.
       We thank you for raising this important issue. We hope this 
     information is useful. Please do not hesitate to let us know 
     if we can be of further assistance.
           Sincerely,
                                              Charles S. Faulkner,
     Bureau of Legislative Affairs.
                                  ____


                         Senator John Barrasso

       In 2012, the U.S. Department of State and U.S. Department 
     of Defense initiated a process to remove a war memorial in 
     Wyoming, called the Bells of Balangiga. It honors the lives 
     of 48 soldiers who were massacred in their sleep by 
     insurgents in the Philippines on September 28, 1901. The U.S. 
     Department of Defense in coordination with the U.S. 
     Department of State intentionally withheld this information 
     from Congress. The veterans in Wyoming overwhelmingly oppose 
     taking down this veteran memorial.
       1. Will you commit to me that you will not support any 
     efforts to deconstruct our war memorials that honor our 
     fallen soldiers and moving them to foreign countries?
       2. What is your position on the U.S. Department of State 
     withholding these actions from Congress?
       The Bells of Balangiga are an important war memorial that 
     holds real significance for many Americans, especially our 
     veterans. If confirmed, I will support an inclusive process 
     with the U.S. Department of Defense to ensure that Congress 
     is fully informed and the views of local communities and 
     veterans are fully respected when evaluating the management 
     of war memorials.

  Mr. BARRASSO. I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The assistant bill clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to speak as in 
morning business.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                          Republican Tax Plan

  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I came to the floor yesterday to speak on 
the devastating impact the Republican tax plan would have on working 
families in my home State of Illinois and other States across the 
Nation.
  It is no secret that the Republican plan would finance massive tax 
cuts for the wealthiest people in America. They just can't help 
themselves. Every time they look at the Tax Code, they think there has 
to be a way to help the wealthiest people in our country. They usually 
look at the estate tax, which is paid for by 1 out of every 1,000 
Americans, and say: We have just got to spare these poor people who 
have a net worth of over $11 million from paying any taxes to the 
government. We have to spare them from paying this government for the 
benefit that this great Nation has brought to them and their families 
and businesses. That is where they start.
  Then they do the alternative minimum tax, which is a tax that was 
created so that if your accountants and bookkeepers and lawyers are the 
sharpest on Earth and ended up finding that you had no tax liability, 
you still paid a fair share for sustaining this great Nation that you 
call home. They want to get rid of that, too, or at least dramatically 
modify it.
  They start off with the premise of making these tax cuts for the 
wealthiest people in America the beginning point of tax reform, these 
giveaways to people who are not even asking for them. They can't help 
themselves. They always start there, and the American people know it.
  When you ask the American people, what is this tax reform all about, 
they say it is tax cuts for wealthy people. That is where it always 
starts, and it does when the Republicans are the authors. That is what 
we face again.
  They try to argue that it is going to help working families. It will 
help some--let me be honest about that--and yet you are going to find 
many working families who are going to pay more instead of less because 
of this so-called tax reform. Why would we ever do that?
  Why would we give tax breaks to the wealthiest people in America--
permanent tax breaks--and then turn around and say to working families: 
Sorry. Some of you will get help, but many of you will not.
  In my home State of Illinois, the elimination of the State and local 
tax exemption is going to be devastating to our State. We are in the 
top five of States where the people in my State who pay income tax, 
sales tax, and property tax can deduct those taxes from their Federal 
income that is subject to taxation.
  That is not a new idea. It has been around for decades. It really is 
premised on the following: Americans should not have to pay tax on a 
tax. If I pay $100 a month, and I pay my local property taxes, I 
shouldn't be taxed on that $100. It is a double hit. It is not fair, 
but the Republican plan believes that is what we should do.
  I will tell the seven Republican Congressmen in my State, they ought 
to go home and ask the people whom they represent what they think about 
this one, the idea of double taxation that they would vote for and go 
home and try to defend. I think it is going to be tough, very tough.
  It is no secret that these tax cuts for the wealthy and large 
corporations will end up raising taxes on a lot of Americans and 
blowing a massive hole in the deficit.
  I am going to quote a fellow who has been retired a few years from 
Congress. His name is Dave Obey. He was a Congressman from Wisconsin. 
Dave Obey used to say over and over again--and I am going to repeat it, 
and I have credited him with it: Too many times politicians are posing 
for holy pictures, but when it comes to the deficit and the debt, many 
of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle pose for holy pictures 
about the national debt whenever there is a Democratic President and 
then get a swift case of amnesia whenever there is a Republican 
President.

[[Page S7246]]

  Here we go again. They are ignoring the reality that the tax cuts 
they are promoting for the wealthiest and biggest corporations are 
going to end up blowing a hole in the deficit--a hole in the deficit, 
which is going to have to be paid for by future generations.
  I used to watch as my Republican colleagues would get red in the face 
talking about our national debt, but that, of course, was under a 
Democratic President. Under a Republican President, it doesn't seem to 
be a major issue. Incidentally, there is a way to plug that hole, and 
somewhere along the way someone slipped and told us what it was.
  If you want to plug the hole of $1.5 trillion in tax cuts to the 
wealthy and big corporations, they propose cutting Medicare benefits 
and Medicaid benefits, cutting the basic health insurance plans that 
seniors and people in low-income categories use. Is that a sound 
policy, to try to patch a hole in the deficit by taking healthcare 
protection away from senior citizens in America--the 40-plus million 
who count on it--or those who are under Medicaid? I think it is not.
  It turns out that Chairman Hatch had a new surprise for us this week. 
At 10:30 p.m. last night, Chairman Orrin Hatch released additional 
changes to this bill, which is evolving before our eyes. It is a bill 
which was not publicly announced until last Friday and is currently 
being debated in the hopes that when we return a week after our 
Thanksgiving recess, we will take it up and vote on it.
  Does it seem like it is a hurried operation? Of course, it is. They 
know that if these bills sit out long enough and people read them and 
consider them, there will be a lot of questions asked that they can't 
answer.
  Chairman Hatch released additional changes to the bill, and they 
decided to fund permanent tax cuts for some corporations. That is a 
high priority for the Republicans--wealthy people, big corporations. So 
how do they pay for permanent tax cuts for the biggest corporations? It 
turns out that in addition to raising taxes on working families, the 
Senate Republican tax bill would also raise health insurance premiums 
on middle-income families. That is right. The Republicans propose that 
their tax bill would also repeal parts of the Affordable Care Act. As a 
result, the Congressional Budget Office tells us that an estimated 13 
to 14 million Americans will lose their health insurance protection 
because of the Republican tax giveaway plan. I thought that plan was 
supposed to help working families. It ends up taking away their health 
insurance.
  For those who can still remain in the market buying health insurance, 
they can anticipate their premiums for health insurance going up 10 
percent. What kind of tax cut is this that ends up raising the cost of 
health insurance for working families and ends up eliminating health 
insurance for many middle-income families?
  I find it hard to believe the satisfaction so many Republicans take 
to be able to boast and brag that they passed a bill that took away 
health insurance for Americans. You are proud of that? I wouldn't be. 
We should be doing the opposite--expanding the reach of health 
insurance, making sure every American has the peace of mind and health 
insurance they need for them and their families.
  Remember when Republicans campaigned on the promise of increasing the 
number of people with insurance and decreasing premiums? This tax bill 
does just the opposite.
  Haven't my Republican colleagues learned the lessons of the ACA--
Affordable Care Act--repeal by now? We spent the whole year in a vain 
effort by the Republicans to repeal and barely replace. The American 
people don't want it. Overwhelmingly, they are against it.
  My hospitals in Illinois and across this Nation don't want what the 
Republicans are proposing in their bill. Patients don't want it. Nurses 
don't want it. Clinics don't want it. The disabled community doesn't 
want it. The Republicans are determined to do it anyway.
  Senior leaders are against it, faith leaders are against it, the 
American people are against it, but this is going to be the feather in 
the cap for the Republican majority; that by the end of this year, they 
hope to pass a tax reform bill that is going to give tax breaks to the 
wealthiest, give a permanent tax break to the biggest corporations, 
make the middle-income families pay for it, eliminate 13 to 14 million 
Americans' health insurance, and raise their premiums. What a package. 
You have to work overtime to put together a package that damaging to 
working families in America, but that is what they are pushing. That is 
what they are determined to do.


                        Drug Price Transparency

  Mr. President, maybe it is the time I turn on my television, but it 
seems to me I just can't escape drug advertising on television. It just 
comes one after the other, all kinds of drugs--many of which I can't 
even pronounce their names, can't remember their names. I can't 
remember why they are being advertised, and then I listen to all of the 
things that follow when all these drug ads come on.
  My favorite--favorite of all time--is one of these drugs in which it 
says: Be sure to tell your doctor if you have had a liver transplant. 
Be sure to tell your doctor if you have had a liver transplant. Imagine 
going to your doctor for a checkup or physical and talking about your 
condition and failing to mention you had a liver transplant. That is 
what one of the ads say, and many of the ads are just as baffling as to 
the warnings and side effects.
  One ad says: Don't take Xarelto if you are allergic to Xarelto. Well, 
how do I know if I am allergic if I don't take it? So many questions 
and so many warnings.
  How many other countries in the world do you think go through this? 
How many other countries in the world are there where, when you turn on 
the television, you get ads for drugs? There must be a lot of them, 
right? No. It turns out there is only one other country in the world 
that does this--New Zealand. The United States of America and New 
Zealand are the only two countries in the world that allow direct-to-
consumer pharmaceutical advertising.
  You ask yourself, when did this come about? It seems relatively new, 
and it is. This direct-to-consumer advertising was legalized in 1985, 
but it didn't take off until 1997--that is about 20 years ago--when the 
Food and Drug Administration eased the requirements for detailing the 
side effects of the drugs that were being advertised.
  After the FDA made that ruling, the drug companies decided to dive 
into this in a big way. Now you see these fancy commercials with 
popular music, with celebrity actors, golf clubs, lofty treatment 
promises. Every hour on television--every hour on television--an 
average of 80 drug ads are aired. The average American sees nine of 
these pharmaceutical ads every day--nine of them. In fact, drug 
companies spend more each year on advertising and sales than the entire 
budget of the Food and Drug Administration. These ads saturate our 
airways so much that there is now a national conference on drug ads and 
a hall of fame for the best drug ads. Can you believe it?
  As common as these direct-to-consumer drug ads are, drug companies 
spend four times as much as the cost of these ads on an army of sales 
representatives who target doctors who write prescriptions. These 
companies in America spend $20 billion a year trying to get these drugs 
into the doctors' offices and to get the doctors to prescribe them.
  I once talked to a young lady who did that for a living for a while. 
I said: How does that work? She said: I knew the birthday of every 
nurse in every doctor's office in my territory. I had a standing order 
every day for birthday cakes, which I delivered on behalf of my drug 
company in the hopes that that nurse and that doctor would prescribe my 
drug, and therefore I would be financially rewarded.
  I said: How did you know if they ever prescribed it? Well, it turns 
out the drug companies can go to the local pharmacies, and although 
they can't get the names of people receiving them, they can test the 
volume of sales at each of the pharmacies close to the doctors' 
offices, and that is one of the ways they measure their success.
  So let me ask and answer an obvious question. Why do the biggest 
pharmaceutical companies in America spend billions of dollars to 
promote and advertise their drugs? For one reason--it increases sales. 
It increases their profits. You see, patients are more likely to ask 
their doctor for a specific drug

[[Page S7247]]

when they have seen the ad for it, whether they need it or not. That is 
why most countries have banned direct-to-consumer drug advertising. As 
I mentioned, only New Zealand and the United States make it legal.
  Why is that a problem? One reason is, it promotes overuse of 
medication for often benign conditions. That bit of dry skin that you 
have on your elbow, that little stiffness in your knee, hooray. There 
is a drug for it, and you are going to find out on your television set 
tonight exactly what it is.
  They push pills for every natural condition or cosmetic issue, and we 
waste money on unnecessary drugs, costs that every one of us pays for 
when the overall cost of healthcare goes up.
  Over the past 20 years, since these direct-to-consumer ads have been 
allowed, the number of people with five or more prescriptions--five or 
more in America--has nearly tripled. A primary problem with these ads 
is that they steer patients toward the most expensive drugs, and that 
raises the cost of healthcare.
  Drugs with ads have nine times more prescriptions than those without. 
It just stands to reason. What are the most advertised drugs? Let's 
take a look at a couple of them here.
  Humira--incidentally, a prescription for Humira, from the disclosure 
of the drug company, costs $3,743 a month.
  Here is one you probably had to write down three times before you 
could pronounce it, Xeljanz. That costs $3,100 a month, a Pfizer drug. 
Humira costs $3,700 a month; Xeljanz, $3,100. Both are for rheumatoid 
arthritis.
  The drug industry spent over $100 million in advertising for each of 
the top 16 brand-name drugs in 2015, which means 50 percent of all 
direct-to-consumer advertising was just for these 16 medications.
  Do you ever see an advertisement during the Super Bowl for a generic, 
lower cost medication? Of course not. It is the same story when it 
comes to the $20 billion the same companies spend to butter up doctors 
so that they will prescribe these drugs. Doctors are more likely to 
prescribe a specific brand-name drug if they have been marketed by drug 
companies, while they are more likely to prescribe cheaper generics if 
not targeted with these ads.
  These ads often urge patients to ``ask your doctor if this drug is 
right for you.'' Well, we asked the doctors whether direct-to-consumer 
drug advertising was right for America, right for the health of 
America. We went straight to the American Medical Association, the 
largest medical society in the United States. The American Medical 
Association has called for a ban on direct-to-consumer prescription 
drug advertising. Here is what they said: ``Direct-to-consumer 
advertising inflates demand for new and more expensive drugs even when 
these drugs may not be appropriate.''
  If a patient finally figures out how to spell Xeljanz or Xarelto on 
the third try and comes to the doctor demanding these drugs, the doctor 
often has a choice. He or she can spend valuable time explaining why 
the patient doesn't need the drug or why there is a cheaper generic or 
just write the prescription. It is sad that too many doctors just write 
the prescription.
  Sometimes, with these drug ads it is hard to tell whether the 
commercial is for a pharmaceutical or a sports car, except you know the 
price of a BMW before you go buy it. With billions in targeted spending 
on drug advertising, patients and doctors are bombarded with 
information--all of those side effects, and ``be sure and tell the 
doctor if you had a liver transplant''--but they are kept in the dark 
about one major, important element: What do these drugs cost? 
Ultimately, somebody is going to pay for them--maybe your insurance 
company, if you are lucky. If not, maybe it is you and your family. 
Price disclosure is absent from virtually all of these drug ads.
  So when a patient sees an advertisement for Xeljanz or Xarelto, or 
his family doctor writes a prescription for it, the moment of truth may 
only occur when the patient finally goes to the pharmacy and sees for 
the first time what they are facing. No other industry conceals its 
prices when it comes to consumer goods this way. I think that needs to 
change. I think American consumers have a right to know--in front, on 
the ads.
  That is why I will be introducing a bill, the Drug-price Transparency 
in Communications Act, or DTC Act, to require the disclosure of prices 
in direct-to-consumer ads and promotions to doctors.
  The American Medical Association recently adopted a resolution 
supporting me. In addition to that, my bill is endorsed by the American 
College of Physicians and the Consumers Union. It is a simple thing: Do 
American consumers have the right to know when it comes to the cost of 
these drugs? Do they have the right to know that if you take Xeljanz 
for rheumatoid arthritis, you are going to spend $3,100 per month? This 
bill would have the FDA and the Federal Trade Commission oversee these 
communications, requiring drug makers to disclose the wholesale 
acquisition cost, known as the WAC, of the drug.
  Now, I am sure the response from Big Pharma, which makes a lot of 
money, will be to say: Well, that is just not the right price for every 
patient.
  I agree, but when we ask the pharmaceutical companies for better 
price information, they clam up. They will not answer. As long as they 
refuse to disclose the true cost of drugs and refuse to provide any 
transparency in the shell games they run between charging different 
patients different amounts, we have to stick with the one industry-
reported, verified number--the WAC--and that price is what we have put 
in as the required advertising on each of these drug ads on television.
  I have asked a lot of stakeholders for their suggestions about other 
approaches. I am open to them, but everyone understands this price 
establishment--this price bottom line--and that is why we used it.
  Further, my legislation allows drug companies to explain that 
patients would pay less than the amount they advertise. But let's also 
remember that somebody has to pay this high cost. If patients don't pay 
the WAC price out-of-pocket to the pharmacy, their insurance company 
just might, which is why health premiums keep going up.
  Blue Cross Blue Shield of Illinois told me that they spend more on 
prescription pharmaceuticals than they do on in-patient hospital care. 
This is one of the big drivers in the cost of healthcare.
  Is it important that we disclose to consumers what the real costs are 
of the drugs they are being bombarded with on television? I think so. 
Doctors, patients, and families agree. If drug makers can fill the 
airways with pharmaceutical ads, then they should tell the whole story 
and provide clear information about drug costs.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Gardner). The clerk will call the roll.
  The bill clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                               Healthcare

  Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, our Constitution starts with those three 
beautiful and powerful words: ``We the People.'' Our Founders 
envisioned a nation with a form of government that wouldn't result in a 
government by the powerful and the privileged but instead would really 
deliver for the American people a form of government that is the 
foundation for every American to thrive. What a contrast that is to 
many of the governments of Europe that they had seen function on behalf 
of the privileged and the powerful.
  Well, we have an issue before us that certainly is about government 
of, by, and for the people. It is the issue of the Children's Health 
Insurance Program, often referred to as CHIP. This program has been 
expired for 46 days--46 days--putting children's healthcare at risk 
throughout our country.
  Why isn't this bill on the floor right now? Why isn't it being passed 
by unanimous consent right now, or at least being debated and amended 
and passed? We have five States--five States--that are running out of 
money in this quarter. Oregon, my home State, is one of them. We are 
going to be out of money next month. We have another 25 States that are 
going to be running out of money in the first 3 months of 2018, 
disrupting the continuity of essential services for our little ones.

[[Page S7248]]

  For 20 years, the Children's Health Insurance Program has ensured 
that no children fall through the cracks of our healthcare system. It 
has covered checkups, immunizations, dental visits, and doctors' 
visits, assisting our struggling and low-income families who make too 
much to qualify for Medicaid but not enough to be able to actually 
purchase health services or healthcare for their children. Every single 
State in America--50 States out of 50--has a program. Now, they tend to 
operate at different levels. Forty-six States cover children up to or 
above 200 percent of poverty. We have 24 States that cover families up 
to incomes of 215 percent of poverty. So 24 States go a little further. 
We have a handful of States that expand coverage up to 300 percent of 
coverage. In my home State of Oregon, 140,000 children rely on the 
Children's Health Insurance Program.
  It is just not acceptable that Members of this body come to this 
floor to talk about how to do trillions of dollars of tax benefits for 
the very wealthiest of Americans while we are failing to get a bill on 
the floor for health insurance for America's poor and struggling 
children. There is a lot I could say about that tax bill. It is really 
a bank heist. It is designed to deliver trillions of dollars to the 
richest 1 percent of Americans, while doing virtually nothing for the 
middle class and absolutely nothing for the bottom third of Americans. 
But doesn't there seem to be something wrong in a ``we the People'' 
democratic republic when we have a bill on the floor that is a bank 
heist on the Federal Treasury to deliver benefits--trillions of 
dollars--to the richest Americans and we can't have a debate on this 
floor on healthcare for the poorest children in America? Well, 
certainly, I think it is a perversion of the principle of a government 
that serves the people to put the privileged and powerful ahead in 
line.
  We have seen, certainly, many renditions of this. We have seen a 
broader bill, a set of bills, including the TrumpCare, zombie 
healthcare bill that came to this floor. It was going to wipe out 
healthcare for 22 million Americans. Then it came back in a different 
form that was kind of the fake insurance form, and it was defeated 
again. Then it came back as the skinny bill, and it was defeated again. 
All of these bills wiped out healthcare for millions and millions of 
America's families.
  Well, now we have a tax bill coming to the floor that, once again, 
has a provision put in it to wipe out healthcare for millions of 
American families. That is why we call it the zombie bill--the fact 
that we kill this thing, try to put a stake through its heart, knowing 
that we are supposed to be here serving the people--not the most 
privileged, the people. That is what is in our Constitution. That is 
the vision of this Nation, but apparently it is not the vision for 
those who control the bills that come to this floor because this bill 
has been waiting for 46 days to be addressed.

  There is a bipartisan bill ready and waiting to be brought to the 
floor right now. Senator Hatch and Senator Wyden have worked together. 
They passed this bill out of their committee. It would extend the 
Children's Health Insurance Program through 2022. We could take up that 
bill right now and pass it. It had the full support of the committee. 
The Republicans and the Democrats were on board. So why isn't it here? 
Why are we disrupting healthcare for America's children?
  To my colleagues: Set aside your ambition of ripping off the Federal 
Government to deliver benefits to the top 1 percent of Americans and 
pay some attention to America's children. That is our responsibility. 
That should be our mission. That is the purpose of our Constitution. 
Let's get it done. Nine million American children are waiting.
  Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The bill clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I rise to speak in opposition to the 
nomination of Joseph Otting to be Comptroller of the Currency.
  I appreciate Mr. Otting's willingness to enter public service. That 
said, he is not the person we need in this very important financial 
watchdog roll. We have learned lessons from the quality, the attitude, 
and the work of the person in this office, and I am virtually sure he 
is not the right person. We have made a lot of progress in the last 7 
years since we passed Wall Street reform. The last thing we need is 
someone leading the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency working 
to weaken or eliminate important safeguards, instead of looking out for 
workers, borrowers, and the stability of our financial system.

  The financial watchdogs, including the previous Comptroller, Thomas 
Curry, took significant steps to right the wrongs that led to the 2008 
financial crisis. It is important that we not have this collective 
amnesia that seems to permeate this body about what happened to this 
country 10 years ago. Working together, Comptroller Curry and other 
financial watchdogs strengthened rules for the largest banks. 
Independently, the OCC enhanced the supervision and examination of 
these banks, took enforcement actions against bad actors, and took 
steps to address concerns that the agency had been captured by the 
industry. There was clear evidence of that by previous people in this 
job.
  This administration is putting the banking industry back in charge of 
policing itself. We should have learned from that a decade ago. Mr. 
Otting is yet another bank executive who profited from the financial 
crisis and is being rewarded by the Trump administration with a 
powerful job overseeing our Nation's banking system. This is a man who 
worked at OneWest and made a fortune kicking military servicemembers, 
seniors, and working families out of their homes, all while pocketing 
$2.5 billion--that is billion with a ``b''--from the FDIC to protect 
his bank from any losses.
  The bank, OneWest, in this behavior, in this money from FDIC, in this 
action of kicking military servicemembers and seniors and working 
families out of their homes--this all might sound familiar to my 
colleagues; it certainly sounds familiar to the people in the Finance 
Committee and the Banking Committee. It is the same place that Mr. 
Mnuchin--now-Secretary of the Treasury--worked, doing the same kinds of 
things and work that Mnuchin did.
  Mr. Otting and his former boss, Secretary Mnuchin, refused to provide 
Senators State-by-State data on OneWest's foreclosures on seniors, 
servicemembers, and other borrowers. They refused to answer questions 
about OneWest loan modifications. I think Ohioans--and I hope enough of 
my colleagues to constitute a majority--would like to know what they 
are hiding.
  It was pretty amazing to sit in the Finance Committee and listen to 
Secretary Mnuchin and watch Secretary Mnuchin--then-Secretary-Designee 
Mnuchin--refuse to release information, refuse to disclose information. 
In fact, he had forgotten about a $100 million investment he had when 
he testified in front of the committee. We found out later that he had 
this investment that he forgot to disclose; $100 million is a lot of 
money. Even to Secretary Mnuchin I think that is a lot of money. Even 
to this administration, that is a lot of money.
  What we do know, thanks to important work by our independent press, 
is not pretty. What we do know about what OneWest did is not pretty. In 
January, the Columbus Dispatch--the most conservative newspaper in my 
State, the second largest paper in our State--ran a front-page story on 
that bank's abuses. Their investigative journalism found that OneWest 
used so-called robosignings on mortgage documents. According to the 
Dispatch, in its fine investigative work, under Mr. Otting's watch from 
2009 to 2015, nearly 2,000 Ohioans in our six largest counties were 
foreclosed on by OneWest. The abuses were so bad that Mr. Otting signed 
an OCC consent order--a legal agreement that a bank and its regulator 
enter into when illegal practices at the bank force the government to 
step in.
  If you are signing an OCC consent order, it is a pretty serious 
problem. In any other administration, this would

[[Page S7249]]

have been disqualifying. In any other administration, Mr. Otting--or 
for that matter, Mr. Mnuchin, who was engaged in the same kind of 
practices--would have withdrawn their name. In any other 
administration, if the nominee didn't withdraw their name, the 
administration would have told them to withdraw their name, but not in 
this White House. Frankly, when you walk into this White House, it 
looks like a retreat for Wall Street executives and people like OneWest 
executives and people who foreclosed on home after home and, frankly, 
have almost no contrition and paid almost nothing, suffered almost no 
consequences for their action.
  The consent order documented OneWest's breathtaking list of 
foreclosure abuses, gouging borrowers with excessive fees and unfairly 
evicting servicemembers on Active Duty. Think about that. They not only 
evicted servicemembers, they evicted servicemembers on Active Duty. In 
some cases, I assume the wife was serving overseas and the husband was 
evicted because he couldn't make the payments, partly because his wife 
is paid so little as a member of the Armed Forces.
  Mr. Otting was held accountable for one of the major abuses, 
robosigning, by the bank's regulator in 2014. But during his Senate 
Banking Committee confirmation hearing, he continued to deny 
wrongdoing, even when faced with a legal document proving otherwise.
  One of the things that amazes the American public is that nobody went 
to jail for what they caused in the last decade, what they caused in 
2007, 2008, and 2009--the pain and the hardship, the pain of plant 
closings and lost jobs, the hardship of losing your home, the terrible 
consequences of losing much of your retirement savings. The people who 
caused this suffered almost no consequence. The American public, first 
of all, can't believe none of them went to jail. Maybe they are not so 
surprised anymore that there is no contrition. Then, we reward these 
people by making them Secretary of the Treasury or Comptroller of the 
Currency.
  Mr. Otting was held accountable. In all of these legal proceedings--
and I am not a lawyer so maybe I don't exactly understand this, but 
these people signed some document, but they never really admitted they 
did anything wrong. Mr. Otting followed that process. Even though we 
had this documentation, he continued to deny wrongdoing, even when we 
presented him with that legal document.
  Instead of helping families recover from the financial crisis as CEO 
of Secretary Mnuchin's--not Secretary then--OneWest Bank, Mr. Otting 
contributed to devastation. So this administration has chosen him to be 
in charge of one of the key agencies protecting ordinary Americans from 
Wall Street. I will say that again. He was a big part of the problem, 
as CEO of OneWest Bank. He has committed wrongdoing; we presented him 
with a legal document proving that. Yet the administration chooses him 
to be Comptroller of the Currency.
  It is a job most of America doesn't know much about. I didn't either 
until I came here. I acknowledge that. It is a job that most Americans 
don't think much about. It is a job that most Americans don't think has 
a great impact in their lives, but Americans know what happened 10 
years ago. I live in ZIP Code 44105, Cleveland, OH. My ZIP Code in 2007 
had more foreclosures than any ZIP Code in the United States of 
America. I can't leave my house, if I go more than about 300 yards, 
without seeing the devastation caused by people like Mr. Otting--people 
who lost their homes, people who lost their jobs, people who have 
suffered and lost their life savings because of Wall Street 
malfeasance, because of companies like OneWest. I am guessing that Mr. 
Otting doesn't think about this, and I am guessing that most people 
here don't think about this.
  Pope Francis, soon after assuming the Papacy, admonished parish 
priests to go out and smell like the flock. It wouldn't hurt all of us 
to do that a little more around here, to talk to somebody who has lost 
a job. It typically happened, in my neighborhood near Slavic Village, 
Cleveland, OH, where the spouse lost her job, and then the husband's 
plant closed, and then they couldn't keep up with the payments. Then 
they had to tell their teenage daughter: Honey, we are going to lose 
our home. First, they had to give away their family dog, probably, 
because owning a dog costs money, and they were squeezed. They knew 
they were in trouble. Then they had to explain to their daughter that 
she is going to go to a different school district--and all the things 
of life have turned upside down. Your life turns upside down if you are 
foreclosed on or if you are evicted.
  I am guessing Mr. Otting doesn't think a lot about that. I am 
guessing Secretary Mnuchin doesn't think a lot about that, as he 
travels on private planes and his wife brags about her expensive 
clothes. I am guessing very few in this White House think about that, 
but maybe they should. If he is confirmed--and I assume he will be 
because the Republicans in this body generally do whatever Wall Street 
and whatever companies like OneWest want them to do in confirming 
nominees like Mr. Otting, but I wish Mr. Otting would think about a 
little bit more about the devastation to which he contributed.
  Right now at the OCC, Keith Noreika--previously, a big bank lawyer--
has spent his time rolling back rules to protect Americans from 
predatory payday lenders. He has worked against a Consumer Financial 
Protection Bureau rule that would have allowed customers to take their 
banks to court when they were cheated.
  Mr. Noreika has done all this as Acting Comptroller. He wasn't 
confirmed by this body. Get this: His temporary role as a special 
government employee means he doesn't have to live up to the same ethics 
or conflicts of interest rules as everyone else. He takes this job as 
Acting Comptroller while we wait for Mr. Otting; he takes this job as 
Acting Comptroller, and he does the bidding of all of these financial 
service interest groups, all of the payday lenders, and all of the 
people who are preying on working families and preying on low-income 
people. He leaves and joins some of these companies, and he is very 
amply rewarded, and he doesn't have to live under any ethics rules.
  The people who run watchdog agencies are supposed to be independent 
voices who protect workers in the economy from financial crisis, not 
banking industry lapdogs who help their former boardroom buddies on 
Wall Street. If his record is any guide, certainly Mr. Noreika didn't 
serve the public. He served as a lapdog. He served the banking 
industry. If his records are any guide, I am concerned that Mr. Otting 
will be no different, that the OCC's independence will be compromised 
under his leadership. He worked side by side with Secretary Mnuchin at 
OneWest Bank. Mr. Mnuchin hand-picked Mr. Otting for this job.
  We are already seeing signs of Wall Street influence at some of the 
agencies, consistent with Secretary Mnuchin's agenda. They have pulled 
back on Wall Street reforms. They have attacked other agencies for 
doing their jobs.
  For wealthy bank executives and private investors like Mr. Otting, 
the crisis wasn't a life-changing event. Think about that. The crisis 
for Mr. Otting wasn't a life-changing event, but those people who live 
in ZIP Code 441, in Slavic Village in Cleveland, for those people whose 
homes I drive by every day, people who lost jobs because of the 
financial crisis, people who lost homes because of the financial 
crisis, people who lost their life savings because of the financial 
crisis, those weren't just life-changing; those were life-destroying 
kinds of events. Yet Mr. Otting and Mr. Mnuchin go forward, and they 
pocket their tens of millions of dollars, and then they are appointed 
by the President of the United States to watch over these financial 
watchdogs.
  They saw the crisis. The crisis was life-changing to my neighbors. 
They saw a crisis as an opportunity to profit by flipping failing banks 
bought at rock-bottom prices, but not before foreclosing, as the 
Columbus Dispatch said, all while raking in taxpayer dollars.
  If confirmed, Mr. Otting will be in charge of ensuring that all 
national banks, including Wells Fargo--we certainly heard about Wells 
Fargo's abuse of millions of its customers. His job will be to ensure 
that all national banks, including banks like Wells Fargo, are 
complying with the law, that they operate in a safe and sound

[[Page S7250]]

manner, and that they protect customers.
  To be real, do we think we can trust him to do that after the worst 
financial crisis since the Great Depression, the financial crisis that 
devastated Ohio, Colorado, and Massachusetts families? After people 
lost their jobs, their homes, and their savings, Mr. Otting clearly 
isn't the right person for this job.
  Yesterday, the Chair of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
Marty Gruenberg, said:

       I confess to having a certain sense of deja vu. Banking 
     conditions today are strong and the possibility of a serious 
     downturn anytime soon is generally viewed as remote. That was 
     certainly true during the pre-crisis years as well. If I have 
     one key point to make today, it is that we should guard 
     against the temptation to become complacent about the risks 
     facing the financial system.

  I would comment on Mr. Gruenberg's comments that 11 years ago or so--
10, 11, 12 years ago--it didn't seem all that likely to many, at least 
to those in the Bush administration, that there would be an implosion 
of the economy and an implosion of the banking system, a crisis; that 
there was, in fact, the new head of supervision at the Federal Reserve 
who pretty much said, as late as 2007: We really shouldn't be concerned 
about a housing crisis. It is only going to hit the higher, upper end 
of homeowners, and it will not affect the economy. Those are the people 
this President has put in charge to be the watchdogs of our financial 
system.

  Again, Mr. Gruenberg said: If I have one key point, it is this. We 
should guard against the temptation to become complacent about the 
risks facing our financial system.
  We need to take Chair Gruenberg's warning seriously. Confirming a 
banker to the OCC--a banker who will give Wall Street its wish list--is 
a high price for working families to pay who are still feeling the 
impact of the last financial crisis.
  I urge my colleagues to vote no on Mr. Otting.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Massachusetts.
  Ms. WARREN. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Ohio for his 
leadership in impressing on the American people to take a look at Mr. 
Otting, who has been named to be the head of the OCC. I rise and join 
my voice with his in saying that this is a bad nomination for America.
  Donald Trump promised during his inaugural address to fight for the 
``forgotten men and women of our country.'' Yet, even before his bags 
were unpacked at the White House, he started bringing Wall Street to 
Washington, importing the worst of the worst bankers who had gambled 
away the economy, putting them in charge of regulating the same 
companies they once worked for. It is a long list.
  It is the former Goldman Sachs president, Gary Cohn, to lead the 
National Economic Council and Wall Street fat cat Wilbur Ross to lead 
the Commerce Department. Randal Quarles went straight from his private 
equity fund to the Federal Reserve, where he is now responsible for 
regulating our biggest banks.
  Maybe the most important and most ridiculous of all of the Wall 
Street imports is Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin. Mnuchin spent 17 
years at Goldman Sachs. As the financial crisis was sweeping across the 
country, Mnuchin organized a team of billionaires to purchase IndyMac 
Bank out of Federal receivership. He rebranded the bank as OneWest and 
put himself in charge. Then Mr. Mnuchin and OneWest acted swiftly and 
decisively to boot more than 36,000 families out of their homes all 
over the country.
  The Senate should never have confirmed that kind of person to run the 
Treasury Department, but it did. Now, among other things, he leads the 
Council that is responsible for making sure Wall Street does not blow 
up our economy again. I know it actually sounds like a joke, but the 
risks for the rest of us are way too serious.
  Republicans don't seem to have any problem with any of this. In fact, 
they are doubling down. Today, they plan to confirm Mnuchin's former 
OneWest business partner, Joseph Otting, to lead the Office of the 
Comptroller of the Currency and take another seat on that same Council.
  The OCC is one of the most important regulators you have probably 
never heard of. It is the main bank overseer of the United States. It 
charters, regulates, and supervises more than 1,400 banks. The OCC 
writes rules to make the economy more secure, and it puts examiners 
inside the big banks in order to catch new tricks and scams before they 
harm consumers or, worse, before they crash the economy, and when banks 
mess up, it is the OCC's job to enforce the law.
  Mr. Otting is buddies with the Treasury Secretary from their days of 
leading OneWest Bank. I guess that is why he got this nomination, but 
if you care about making sure regulators watch out for families, 
businesses, and our economy, it is hard to think of anyone worse for 
this job other than Steve Mnuchin. We all know a segment of the banking 
industry specialized in squeezing American families, particularly after 
the financial meltdown, but OneWest may have been the worst of the 
worst, especially when Otting was president and CEO from 2010 to 2015.
  What happened on Mr. Otting's watch?
  OneWest ran a notorious foreclosure mill that threw thousands of 
families out of their homes and illegally--underline ``illegally''--
foreclosed on dozens of servicemembers. The OneWest crew didn't just 
hurt families; it destroyed whole communities when it foreclosed on 
dozens of properties in the same neighborhoods, making it even harder 
for families to start over and rebuild. OneWest stole homes out from 
underneath families, lying to homeowners who were legally entitled to 
modify their mortgages and keep their homes under a government program 
and telling them the only way forward was through foreclosure.
  OneWest treated all of its homeowners like garbage, but its treatment 
of minority homeowners was particularly disgusting. OneWest was nine 
times more likely to foreclose on a homeowner who was in a community of 
color than to offer him a mortgage.
  All of this went down while the bank was busy vacuuming up more than 
$1 billion in taxpayer bailout money during the financial crisis. These 
scams at OneWest devastated a lot of American homeowners and, at the 
same time, put Mr. Otting in the same room with a lot of regulators.
  After an investigation by the Treasury Department found that OneWest 
systematically cheated in foreclosure proceedings, including by lying 
in sworn statements to judges, cutting corners, and failing to check to 
make sure they had the right documents before foreclosing on families, 
Mr. Otting signed a consent decree with the government to agree that 
OneWest would pay more than 10,000 people for improperly throwing them 
out of their homes, but that is not all. In 2015, OneWest forked over 
more than $89 million in fines to the Department of Justice for 
defrauding the government and illegally putting taxpayers on the hook 
for the loans if they went bad.
  So what happened to Mr. Otting after hurting all of those families, 
after lying to judges, after admitting to defrauding the U.S. 
Government? He got a nice $12 million severance check and a call from 
Donald Trump, asking if he wanted a corner office right here in 
Washington.
  It is crazy to expect a banker who has broken the law to turn around 
and fight to enforce it. It is like putting criminals in charge of the 
police station and expecting them not to look the other way while their 
buddies keep stealing. There is nothing in Mr. Otting's record to 
suggest he would protect consumers from financial fraud or take the 
steps needed to rein in the banks or avoid future financial meltdowns.
  You may not have heard of the OCC, but I promise you that when this 
agency refuses to stand up to the big banks and enforce the law, 
American families get hurt. It is as simple as that. Before the 
financial crisis, the OCC buddied up with the banks they were supposed 
to regulate, and everybody knew it. The result was the 2008 financial 
crisis that cost our economy $14 trillion. Millions of families lost 
their homes. Millions lost their jobs. Millions lost their savings and 
their retirement money. Nearly a decade later, many American families 
are still hurting. Now the Trump administration is ready to take us 
back to the bad old days, in which banks made gobs of money off risky 
bets while the regulators just looked the other way.

[[Page S7251]]

  Confirming Mr. Otting is kicking dirt in the faces of every one of 
OneWest's victims. It is a gut punch to every American who was hurt in 
the financial crisis. Even if none of that matters to you, it is a 
terrible idea because leaving Mr. Otting in charge of bank regulation 
will endanger our economy. American families and businesses need and 
deserve a cop on the beat who will fight hard to keep them safe. 
Everything we know about Mr. Otting says he will be out there fighting 
for the big banks.
  I will be voting no on Mr. Otting's nomination, and I urge all of my 
colleagues to do the same.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Connecticut.


                          Russia Investigation

  Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, we are at a critical juncture in our 
investigation into Russia's interference in last year's election and 
potential collusion by Americans with Russia's meddling and obstruction 
of justice that may have occurred. Those issues are under investigation 
by the Judiciary Committee, which has a unique responsibility because 
we exercise oversight concerning the Department of Justice and the FBI. 
So the firing of James Comey, among other actions that raised issues 
regarding potential collusion and obstruction of justice, is very much 
appropriate and necessary for our inquiry to determine.
  We also have a unique responsibility because only the Judiciary 
Committee can make public for the American people to know and 
understand what happened that may involve obstruction of justice and, 
equally important, what can be done to prevent it in the future. The 
Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate can legislate.
  There are other investigations ongoing involving the special counsel, 
who will determine criminal culpability, and the Intelligence 
Committees of both the House and the Senate, which have a 
counterterrorism responsibility, but they rarely legislate in the way 
that the Judiciary Committee does.
  I am proud to serve on the Judiciary Committee. I greatly respect the 
leadership of our committee: Chairman Grassley, who is a straight 
shooter, cares deeply about the integrity of our judicial process, and 
has a longstanding and distinguished record of protecting 
whistleblowers; and our ranking member, Senator Dianne Feinstein of 
California, who has been a steadfast champion of judicial integrity.
  Every week we are seeing cascading disclosures that reflect potential 
collusion or cooperation between the Trump campaign and Russian 
officials. These disclosures reflect on the obstruction of justice that 
is front and center of the Judiciary Committee's investigation.
  Just this week, through a stunning expose in The Atlantic, later 
confirmed by Donald Trump, Jr., himself, the American people learned of 
secret exchanges between WikiLeaks and Donald Trump, Jr., during the 
2016 Presidential campaign. The exchanges began in September 2016--2 
months before the election. Over the course of those exchanges, 
WikiLeaks sent literally dozens of messages to Trump Junior, who sent 
back at least three messages. He acted at WikiLeaks' behest at least 
one time, tweeting out a link to the hacked emails of John Podesta, 
Jr., at WikiLeaks' suggestion. He told other high-ranking officials on 
the Trump campaign that WikiLeaks had reached out to him in an 
extraordinarily revealing message. At no point did he rebuff the 
advances--in fact, just the opposite. At no point did he reject those 
overtures from WikiLeaks. And what we are seeing, particularly in the 
familiar tone, almost intimate nature of these exchanges back and 
forth, is the possibility that what we have discovered is just the tip 
of the iceberg in those exchanges.
  These revelations are stunning. They are jaw-dropping. The son of the 
President of the United States--then candidate--actively engaged and 
may have coordinated strategy with a group that the current CIA 
Director has called a ``hostile intelligence service.'' The present 
Director of the CIA, appointed by the President of the United States, 
Donald Trump, characterized WikiLeaks as a ``hostile intelligence 
service''--and that is a direct quote--and then observed that it is 
often abetted by hostile Nation states like Russia.
  Without subpoenaing Donald Trump, Jr., to testify in public, we 
cannot be sure we have the full record.
  One of the most stunning aspects of this exchange, indeed, was its 
very personal tone. Many who read the coverage may sense and feel, 
understandably and rightly, that we are reading fragments of a longer 
and larger conversation that may have involved other participants or 
relied on other means of communication. We are inevitably and 
inexorably left with some very key questions:
  How did Donald Trump, Jr., know of WikiLeaks' plan to leak Podesta's 
emails before they were even released?
  Why did WikiLeaks feel confident it could inform Trump Junior that 
they had hacked Podesta's emails without worrying that he would turn 
this information over to law enforcement? Hacking is a crime. How could 
WikiLeaks be in the least bit confident that Donald Trump, Jr., would 
not report that crime to the proper authorities? And he did not.
  Perhaps most crucially, why would Trump Junior see an invitation from 
WikiLeaks to coordinate efforts as anything other than inappropriate, 
unethical, and a potentially illegal act?
  Given the stakes, my expectation was--and the American people could 
likewise expect the same--that our committee would act quickly and 
transparently to answer those questions raised by these messages as 
well as the interview conducted by our committee staff of Donald Trump, 
Jr. That is what I was expecting when these messages were first 
provided to the Judiciary Committee roughly 2 months ago. My 
expectation was that Donald Trump, Jr., would be compelled to testify 
and that he would be subpoenaed to provide a full record of his 
communications relating to Russia's interference in our elections. 
Surely those subpoenas that were discussed, even issued over the 
summer, would now be reissued and enforced.

  The lack of action has been frustrating to me. Likewise, I have been 
disappointed that we have made virtually no progress toward scheduling 
a public hearing with Donald Trump, Jr., and other key individuals 
involved in this investigation. The subpoenas have not been reissued. I 
have called repeatedly for that action to be taken. The documents have 
not been subpoenaed. Those key documents that are so relevant and 
necessary to our investigation have not been subpoenaed, as I have 
asked to be done repeatedly.
  That is why I am here today to raise concerns about the Senate 
Judiciary Committee's investigation into Russia's interference in our 
election, possible collusion by the Trump campaign, and obstruction of 
justice.
  The threat is that the investigation is stalling. The danger of lack 
of progress is depriving the American people of information they 
deserve. I recognize that congressional investigations must operate 
methodically, systematically, and in some cases confidentially until 
the committee is ready to release its findings. But that 
confidentiality can serve an important purpose if it aids an 
investigation--not if it engenders the kind of lack of trust that is 
clearly a possibility here, not if it engenders that lack of trust, not 
if it endangers confidence and trust in the process. There may be a 
need for confidentiality to encourage cooperation of witnesses, but 
ultimately the American people deserve disclosure.
  There is a need for impetus and urgency in this investigation. The 
American people must be made aware of key facts and issues raised by 
these documents and the interviews conducted so far. My hope is that 
colleagues will join me in asking for more progress, more disclosure, 
and more transparency, because the American people need and deserve 
that kind of disclosure.
  Without the exposure provided by a free and independent press, 
justice delayed could have extended into justice denied. That is the 
danger. Secrecy threatens to stall the investigation, and my hope is 
that we will have the kind of transparency in greater measure that is 
necessary for trust and confidence in this investigation.
  I hope my colleagues on the Senate Judiciary Committee will join me 
in demanding that Donald Trump, Jr., and other key figures in the 
investigation testify under subpoena, in public,

[[Page S7252]]

under oath, and that documents be subpoenaed as well. The Senate 
Judiciary Committee has a particularly critical role in exposing the 
truth. Even if criminal charges are never brought, the American people 
have a right to know whether their public officials have held 
themselves to the standard of honesty, loyalty, and integrity that they 
have a right to expect. This body is in the best position to provide 
that measure of truth--hopefully the whole truth--to the American 
people.
  There are many Members whose leadership on this issue I appreciate. 
As I mentioned, Senator Feinstein is sending a second tranche of 
letters this afternoon on this investigation. But we are allowing time 
to pass without progress. That opportunity, once lost, cannot be 
recovered with the measure of importance that it deserves. We must 
issue subpoenas. We must hold public hearings. We must get to the 
truth, and it must be done now.
  Thank you.
  I will refer these remarks to my colleagues with great respect for 
them and for the leadership of this committee. And I will come back to 
the floor. I will return to this subject because I think it is so 
critically important. The American people deserve more information, and 
they deserve better.
  Mr. President, I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Lee). The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                          Republican Tax Plan

  Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. President, we are having a chance now to take a 
look at the House and Senate Republican tax plans. Both of these plans 
were cooked up largely in secret, and as more information comes out, we 
see more and more how much damage they are going to do to our country.
  The plans have many features that overlap, and one of those 
overlapping features is that both of them provide a massive tax 
giveaway to big corporations and powerful special interests. The Wall 
Street Journal, in an article just a little while back that was looking 
at the House plan, talked about a provision that is also in the Senate 
plan. They said that, at a 20-percent corporate tax rate, banks stand 
to be among the biggest winners from tax reform according to S&P Global 
Market Intelligence. The five biggest diversified U.S. banks alone 
might have had tax savings of $11.5 billion in 2016 at that rate. In 
other words, if that 20 percent rate had been in place back in 2016, 
those big banks--the biggest banks--would have seen that huge windfall, 
that huge additional profit.
  A recent analysis from Bloomberg Law estimates that banks could see a 
12-percent drop in their effective tax rates and an 18-percent increase 
in their profits. This is at a time that the biggest banks in the 
United States--not the community banks, but the biggest banks in this 
country--are already making huge profits, and this just provides them 
with an extra tax windfall that is going to be paid by millions of 
middle-class taxpayers and paid by increasing our national debt.
  Of course, as the national debt goes up, people will come around and 
say: OK, let's also pay for them by cutting Medicare and Medicaid. In 
fact, that is right there in the Senate Republican budget. So the 
bottom line is that both the House and the Senate Republican tax plans 
are big giveaways to big corporations, paid for by many other 
Americans.
  Now, this is not the only way the Trump administration is working to 
provide big giveaways to the biggest banks. We remember back during the 
financial crisis and the meltdown that taxpayers had to be brought in 
to save big financial institutions in order to protect the larger 
economy. It was a terribly difficult decision people had to make to 
protect the economy, and at that time we said: Never again are we going 
to allow the big banks on Wall Street to gamble in a way that leaves 
taxpayers--all of our constituents--on the hook. They can take risks, 
but they shouldn't be taking risks with taxpayer money. That was the 
whole purpose of the Wall Street reforms.
  Now comes the Trump administration, and in addition to a tax plan 
that wants to provide big corporate breaks to the biggest banks, they 
want to take down a lot of the guardrails that prevent banks from 
taking big risks that taxpayers will end up paying for. One of the ways 
they are trying to bring down those guardrails is by appointing people 
to very important positions within the government who oversee the big 
banks but who have a history of very cozy relationships with those big 
banks, so that they can bring down the guardrails which, once again, 
will expose taxpayers to the risks of gambling on Wall Street.
  Mr. President, that brings me to the nomination that is before the 
Senate today, the nomination of Joseph Otting to be the next 
Comptroller of the Currency. With so much going on right now, I wish to 
take one moment to step back and talk about what the Comptroller does, 
because the Comptroller of the Currency plays a critical role in 
ensuring the stability of our national banking system. It is there to 
make sure that our banks don't blow up our financial system in the kind 
of way we saw happen in 2008 and the years leading up to that.
  The OCC has been an independent agency since the Civil War. The 
Comptroller has to be confirmed with the advice and consent of the 
Senate, and the reason that process was put in place was to make sure 
we preserved the agency's independence and safeguarded our financial 
system from the whims of the executive branch. You don't want somebody 
at the head of the OCC who is simply the lackey for the 
administration--whatever administration might be in power.
  Now, the OCC is responsible for the supervision of more than 1,400 
national banks and Federal savings associations and about 50 Federal 
branches and agencies of foreign banks in the United States. These 
institutions together comprise nearly two-thirds of the assets of the 
commercial banking system. They require prudent, smart, reasonable 
regulation to ensure that they comply with the laws that Congress has 
passed to prevent another financial crisis--to prevent another 
financial crisis in which it was not Wall Street executives who, at the 
end of the day, were left holding the bag, but it was the American 
people who had to pay the bill and who took it on the chin in the form 
of a collapsing economy and lost jobs and wages.

  Yet we see this President and the Secretary of the Treasury, Mr. 
Mnuchin, continuing down the path to lower those guardrails and expose 
taxpayers to greater risk. One of the things they need to do that is to 
have somebody at the head of OCC who is not going to be an independent 
person but somebody who is willing to do the bidding of the Secretary 
of the Treasury and the President of the United States.
  As I said, normally the OCC leader is supposed to go through the 
confirmation process to preserve that independence, but under the Trump 
administration, they wanted to get going right away in lowering the 
guardrails and giving big banks more running room even if that put 
taxpayers at risk. So rather than offer a Senate nominee early in the 
year, the President and Secretary Mnuchin used an underhanded tactic to 
install a person by the name of Keith Noreika as Comptroller.
  By using this procedure, they sidestepped the Senate confirmation 
process and, by the way, also allowed Mr. Noreika to sidestep the Trump 
administration's ethics pledge and ethics requirements. So that is who 
is there right now--Mr. Noreika--and he has spent most of his career, 
prior to taking that position, telling big banks how they can avoid 
regulations that are designed to protect taxpayers and protect the 
economy. In fact, if you look at the ethics forms that he did file, he 
had to recuse himself from virtually all the major banks that the OCC 
regulates. His work in the private sector created an unprecedented 
series of conflicts of interests far more than any other person in that 
position and underscoring the need for someone to have to go through 
the Senate confirmation process, rather than trying to short-circuit 
that process with underhanded tactics.
  I was very concerned about the use of this runaround and asked the 
Secretary's inspector general to initiate an investigation into the 
means and

[[Page S7253]]

manner of that appointment, because what happened was that Mr. Noreika 
was designated what is called ``a special government employee,'' or an 
SGE. When you use that mechanism, you are only supposed to have the 
person serve in that position for 130 days of the year. It is a very 
unusual type of appointment and almost never used when it comes to the 
head of an agency. In fact, this may be close to the first time.
  Well, that 130-day deadline, if you count by calendar days, expired 
in September. Yet now we have a new interpretation of the law, which is 
a wild stretch, saying: Well, it is not calendar days. We are going to 
count it as business days. But the whole point here is that this 
mechanism--this underhanded mechanism--has been used to allow this new 
person, Mr. Noreika, at the OCC.
  In that period of time, by looking at what he has done, we can see he 
wasn't installed there just to be a caretaker. He has been very active 
in those early months in working very hard to lower many of the 
protections we have put in place for taxpayers and for our financial 
system. He was in the middle of the effort to repeal the Consumer 
Financial Protection Bureau's mandatory arbitration rule, to roll back 
the OCC's Community Reinvestment Act supervisory guidance, and to 
eliminate the deposit advance guidance rule, which is a rule that makes 
it more difficult for national banks to provide payday loans at 
outrageous rates that are unaffordable to the people who take them out.
  Since Mr. Noreika has been at the OCC, the OCC has been involved in 
helping one of his former clients circumvent Federal guidance intended 
to prevent banks from shopping around for hands-off regulators who will 
not scrutinize their activities--in other words, forum shopping for 
bank regulators.
  Just this morning, the Wall Street Journal reported that on November 
7 the Bank of Tokyo converted the license of its New York State branch 
from a State license to a Federal license. So why did they do that? Why 
did they do that at this time? Well, this decision to change regulators 
came in the middle of an ongoing investigation by the New York 
Department of Financial Services into that bank's lack of scrutiny of 
its clients, some of whom are suspected of evading U.S. sanctions on 
Iran and North Korea.
  Now, the OCC's licensing manual says that it draws heavily on 
information received from the Office's current U.S. supervisor and 
other confidential and supervisory information available to the OCC 
when considering the application from a financial institution that 
wants to switch from State supervision to Federal supervision. That 
courtesy and that guideline were not applied in this case. That 
information and that notice were not provided to the New York 
Department of Financial Services, and the OCC has refused to act in 
response to this effort by the financial institution to evade 
oversight.
  As a result, the Bank of Tokyo--which is a former client of the 
current head of the OCC, Mr. Noreika--is now going to be supervised by 
his office. It appears to have successfully dodged an active 
investigation into its clients' potential evasion of U.S. sanctions on 
foreign adversaries--in this case, North Korea and Iran. So that is the 
person who was installed by the Trump administration during these first 
months, from the beginning of the year until now, using this 
underhanded method.
  Finally, we now have the nomination put forward for the person who 
will permanently be proposed to head up the OCC, Joseph Otting. In Mr. 
Otting, we have another example of somebody whose entire career has 
been spent working with banks and other major financial institutions to 
try to evade important consumer protections and taxpayer protections.
  In fact, Mr. Otting and his bank were able to profit very handsomely 
from the mortgage crisis. The CEO of OneWest during part of that crisis 
was the person who is now Secretary of the Treasury, Stephen Mnuchin. 
He was the head of OneWest during the foreclosure crisis. During that 
time, OneWest had what many have called a foreclosure machine in place. 
Mr. Otting, who is going to be the head of the OCC--and whom we would 
hope would be more independent, as required by the charter of the OCC--
was there working for the Secretary of the Treasury, Steve Mnuchin, at 
OneWest. Mr. Otting was there working at OneWest when the bank 
foreclosed on nearly 40,000 Americans. OneWest received more than $1 
billion in taxpayer money to cover OneWest's losses.
  Those are exactly the kind of losses we are trying to avoid in the 
aftermath of the crisis; that we are trying to avoid by adopting the 
Wall Street reform bill Dodd-Frank so taxpayers--our constituents--
aren't left holding the bag for decisions made by people like Mr. 
Otting or Mr. Mnuchin.
  According to one media summary, OneWest Bank ``rushed delinquent 
homeowners out of their homes by violating notice and waiting period 
statutes, illegally backdated key documents, and effectively gamed 
foreclosure auctions.''
  In the reverse mortgage business, OneWest-controlled firm Financial 
Freedom engaged in practices that led to more than 16,000 foreclosures, 
a far greater number than would be expected based on the company's 
market share.
  Elderly individuals who had recently suffered the death of a spouse 
were victimized. In one case, Financial Freedom attempted to evict a 
90-year-old woman from her home over a 27-cent error on her insurance 
payment.
  In another case, a New York State Supreme Court judge called 
OneWest's foreclosure practices ``harsh, repugnant, shocking, and 
repulsive.'' Yet the person who has now been nominated to lead the 
OCC--Office of the Comptroller of the Currency--a person who is 
supposed to be looking out for consumers' and taxpayers' interests and 
providing for a sound banking system that doesn't melt down our 
economy, is Mr. Otting. He was the person who was in the middle of 
these OneWest foreclosure transactions.
  I hope this body will not support that nomination.


                          Republican Tax Plan

  Mr. President, I started by talking about the tax bill. I want to get 
back to making a few more remarks about that tax bill. There is one 
thing that is in common between the nomination of Mr. Otting to oversee 
much of the banking system and the tax bill. Both of them are part of 
an effort to provide big gifts to big banks and to corporate America. 
We are seeing the Trump administration trying to use government power 
to help these large financial institutions at the expense of consumers 
and at the expense of taxpayers.
  Let's just take a look at what happened yesterday and is continuing 
to happen in the Senate Finance Committee. Republicans on that 
committee and the Republican tax plan couldn't have sent a clearer 
message than they did just yesterday; that the Republican tax plan puts 
big corporate interests first and leaves the rest of the country 
behind, including millions of people in the middle class who will be 
left holding the bag.
  Under the new tax plan, the tax cuts for corporations--those big tax 
cuts, reducing the rate from 35 percent to 20 percent--go on forever. 
They go on for the first 10 years. They go on for the next 10 years. 
They go on forever, but for everybody else, for those other Americans 
who get some tax cut under this bill, all those tax cuts go away after 
10 years. They get sunsetted.
  If you are one of the folks in the middle where Republicans say: Hey, 
this bill is for you; you will get some benefit, it is going away, but 
the corporate tax cut is there forever.
  I want to be clear. There are lots of folks in the middle--millions--
who aren't going to get to see any initial tax benefit. In fact, they 
are going to be paying more in taxes. We also saw, as part of this bill 
yesterday, an effort to repeal important provisions of the Affordable 
Care Act, changes that will result in 13 million Americans losing 
access to the Affordable Care Act and premiums being jacked up by 10 
percent on the individual market.
  Let's do the math here. Thirteen million Americans lose access to the 
Affordable Care Act; premiums go up by 10 percent; middle-class 
families--millions of them--pay higher taxes, all to finance a 
permanent corporate tax cut.
  Let's take a moment and look at who these multinational corporations 
are because ultimately the benefits, the profits, go to the CEOs, the 
executives, and of course they go to the shareholders.

[[Page S7254]]

  Let's look at who some of these shareholders are who are going to get 
this whopping big tax benefit from cutting the corporate tax rate. When 
you dig under here a little bit, you discover that 35 percent of U.S. 
corporate stock is owned by foreigners--people who aren't Americans. So 
35 percent of the people who get the benefit of that gigantic corporate 
tax cut are foreign stockholders. According to the Institute of 
Taxation and Economic Policy, those foreign stockholders are going to 
get a $31 billion windfall from the Republican tax plan in 2019 alone. 
You have the sunset of the individual taxes, but corporate tax breaks 
go on forever. Millionaires and billionaires are the biggest winners 
under the plan.
  President Trump reportedly made this phone call to a number of 
Senators just the other day, saying: Hey, guess what. I am going to be 
a ``big loser'' under this Republican tax plan. That is what President 
Trump said. Well, Mr. President, prove it. President Trump, release 
your tax returns, as Presidents have routinely done for decades, and 
show the American people that this plan doesn't enrich the Trump family 
and the Trump businesses because here is what the Chicago Tribune says: 
``Trump says he's a `big loser' in GOP tax plan; experts say it could 
save him tens of millions.''
  In fact, just one part of the Republican tax plan--cutting the taxes 
on large estates--could give President Trump's heirs a windfall of $4.4 
million. That is because the plan doubles the amount of money that is 
exempt from estate taxes. I am talking about the Senate plan. The 
Senate plan can provide that $4.4 million windfall because the 
exemption today is for estates under $11 million. In other words, if 
you are a couple with an estate under $11 million, you don't pay a 
single penny in Federal estate tax. The Senate Republican plan takes 
that up to $22 million, and in doing so will provide President Trump's 
heirs with a big windfall. In fact, if you use the House plan--which 
repeals it entirely--we are talking about a windfall of over $1 
billion.
  The Republican plan also eliminates the alternative minimum tax. That 
was a provision put in the Tax Code to provide some equity because a 
lot of wealthy people with good lawyers are able to take advantage of 
lots of deductions that many Americans in the middle are not able to 
claim. We wanted to make sure folks who made a ton of money couldn't 
escape all of their responsibility to the rest of the country and paid 
their fair share of taxes. That is why we adopted the alternative 
minimum tax.
  Well, we know that back in 2005, President Trump, when he filed his 
tax returns, had to pay a tax in that year because of the alternative 
minimum tax. In fact, in that year it was $31 million. So let's get rid 
of that provision. That will help a lot of very wealthy people escape 
any tax obligation--even as folks in the middle pay theirs.
  There is another way the Trump enterprises will benefit from this 
Republican tax plan, and that is through the so-called passthrough 
business provisions. These are businesses that don't pay corporate 
taxes. Their profits are passed through and taxed on the individual 
returns of their owners. A lot of people want the public to think all 
these passthroughs are small mom-and-pops.
  I want to be there. We want to help mom-and-pops. We should be 
providing some tax benefits and relief to mom-and-pops, but everyone 
who looks at this knows a lot of those passthroughs are not mom-and-
pops. Many of them are on the Fortune 500 list in the United States--
the 500 wealthiest entities. In fact, some of these passthrough 
entities are in the Fortune 100 list--not mom-and-pops. Guess who owns 
more than 500 passthrough entities--the Trump Organization. They will 
get a big windfall.
  President Trump, show the American public your tax forms before you 
go around telling people you are going to be a ``big loser'' from this 
plan.
  Now, it is not just about President Trump; it is just one example of 
the very wealthy Americans who are going to get a windfall under this 
plan.
  A provision that was put into the Senate Republican plan will help a 
lot of very well-heeled lobbyists here in Washington, DC. Under the 
Senate Republican plan, if you are a married lobbyist making up to 
$500,000 a year, you get to claim a deduction for 17.4 percent of your 
income. That is an $87,000 tax deduction if you are making $500,000 a 
year. But if you are the secretary working for that lobbying firm or if 
you are somebody hired to help clean up the firm, sorry--you are out of 
luck. You don't get that special lobbyist passthrough tax rate.
  The question is, Who is going to pay for all of this at the end of 
the day? We are providing this huge tax giveaway to big corporations. 
We are providing tax breaks to the very wealthiest estates in the 
country--which, by the way, are only about 2 out of 1,000 taxpayers. 
There are fewer than 5,000 taxpayers in the country each year who end 
up paying that estate tax, the very wealthiest in the country. Who is 
going to pay for all of this? Well, millions of middle-class taxpayers 
are going to pay under this plan.
  We know from the Joint Committee on Taxation that in 2019, the Senate 
Republican plan will raise taxes on more than 13 million middle-class 
families, people with incomes below $200,000. By 2025, more than 21 
million middle-class families are going to get a tax hike. This is a 
plan that is being sold to the public as something that provides 
middle-class tax relief, but the Joint Committee on Taxation--the pros, 
the nonpartisan experts here in Congress--tells us that plan is going 
to raise taxes on 21 million middle-class families.
  One of the biggest sources of this increase in taxes for middle-class 
families is the complete repeal in the Senate bill of people's ability 
to deduct State and local taxes. More than 100 million American 
families use this deduction today. Repealing it is double taxation, 
pure and simple. Those taxpayers now pay a dollar in tax to their 
State, whether it be the State of Maryland, the State of Oklahoma, 
whatever it may be. Now they are going to be paying Federal taxes on 
the dollar that they sent to support the State government.
  The Senate bill is even worse than the House bill. The House bill is 
bad on this issue, but it is hard to believe that the Senate actually 
made this provision even worse.
  If you look at this chart, it is interesting because what you find is 
that the huge corporate tax cut helps a lot of foreign investors. In 
fact, as I indicated, approximately 35 percent of all the stockholders 
are foreign investors. So that is going to give them, in just the year 
2019, a $31 billion tax break. This is money we are sending to 
foreigners, foreign stockholders. In that same year, we find out that 
Americans--many folks who are in the middle, middle-class Americans--
are going to pay $34 billion more in taxes. So you are asking middle-
class American families to finance big tax cuts for foreigners who own 
stock in American corporations. What a gift to American middle-class 
taxpayers. That is a direct transfer from them to foreign stockholders.
  When you deny people the ability to deduct their State and local 
taxes, you are also taxing decisions by State and local governments, 
which is ironic since our Republican colleagues have always said that 
it is best to leave most decisions to our local and State leaders 
because they are close to the people. Now you are taxing the decisions 
that they make to support their schools, to support their firefighters, 
to make investments locally. Now taxpayers in those communities have to 
pay their local government or pay their State, and then they have to 
pay the Feds on that same money that they just paid to their city or to 
their State for important services, such as schools for our kids.
  Here is the crazy thing about this Republican tax plan. Even after 
you ask middle-class American families to pay more--millions and 
millions of them--so that foreign stockholders get can get a tax break, 
even after you do you all that, it raises the national debt by $1.5 
trillion.
  For many years, I served as the senior Democrat on the House Budget 
Committee. At that time, the current Speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, 
was the chairman of that committee, and he talked all the time about 
the dangers and risks of adding to our national debt. You know what. 
That is actually an area in which we found some agreement, because we 
shouldn't have an

[[Page S7255]]

ever-rising national debt. Yet this Republican tax plan is calculated 
to increase the national debt by a whopping $1.5 trillion.
  People cared about our national debt when that was used as a reason 
to propose cuts to Medicare and Medicaid and Social Security, but when 
it comes to financing tax breaks for foreign stockholders and big 
corporations, apparently that debt doesn't matter.
  I have a prediction to make. I have a prediction that if this tax 
bill goes through and we blow up the national debt by $1.5 trillion, 
Speaker Ryan and everybody else who told us about the risks and dangers 
of a big national debt--all of a sudden, they are going to rediscover 
their commitment to reducing the national debt. They forgot about it 
when it came to financing big tax breaks, but you know what--gosh, 
really, it is a big deal. And then they are not going to talk about 
rolling back the tax breaks they just gave the big corporations; they 
are going to go about cutting important investments--cutting Medicare, 
cutting Medicaid, cutting education.
  Do you know why I am very confident that we can predict that is what 
is going to happen? Because our Republican colleagues have told us. It 
is right there in the budget. It is in their budget that passed the 
Senate and passed the House. Just open up those budgets. There is 
almost a $500 billion cut to Medicare--$473 billion to be exact. There 
is a $1 trillion cut to Medicaid in the Republican budget. There are 
big cuts to domestic investments, and that is the category of our 
budget that funds education, modernizing our infrastructure, and 
medical research. It is all right there in the Republican budget.
  I hope that the American public is going to have a chance to focus on 
this. I understand why people are trying to speed this through--speed 
it through the House before Thanksgiving, speed it through the House 
and Senate before the end of the year--but people are beginning to wake 
up to this. I can assure my colleagues that when they find out exactly 
what is in this Republican plan, they are going to be very, very angry 
because all those middle-class families who were sold a bill of goods, 
thinking they are going to get this big tax cut--uh-uh. Millions of 
them are going to see a tax increase to finance tax breaks for big 
corporations and very wealthy Americans and will pay for it by rising 
national debt and ultimately cuts to important health and retirement 
and security programs, as well as education.
  I hope people will turn back now. The way to do this is the way tax 
reform was done in 1986--in a bipartisan, transparent fashion. Let's 
get back to doing this the right way.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The majority leader.


                           Order of Procedure

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that 
notwithstanding rule XXII, that at 11:30 a.m. on Thursday, November 16, 
there be 30 minutes of postcloture time remaining on the Otting 
nomination, equally divided between the leaders or their designees, and 
that following the use or yielding back of that time, the Senate vote 
on the confirmation of the Otting nomination; that if confirmed, the 
motion to reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table and the 
President be immediately notified of the Senate's action. I further ask 
consent that following disposition of the Otting nomination, the Senate 
vote on the pending cloture motions on the Coggins and Friedrich 
nominations in the order filed, and that if cloture is invoked, the 
postcloture time on the nominations run consecutively.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
  Without objection, it is so ordered.

                          ____________________



