

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 199 (Wednesday, December 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 199 (Wednesday, December 6, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9705]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





            CELEBRATING THE LIFE AND LEGACY OF NAOMI LAUTER

  (Ms. PELOSI asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.)
  Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the extraordinary life 
and legacy of my dear friend Naomi Lauter, who died on December 4, in 
her beloved San Francisco.
  Naomi lived her life in the spirit of ``world repair,'' ``tikkun 
olam,'' dedicated to making the world a better place by fighting for 
values, ideas, and issues we all hold most dear.
  Born and raised in San Francisco, Naomi attended Lowell High School, 
UC Berkeley, and San Francisco State University.
  Her parents, Rose and Louis Ets-Hokin, were prominent leaders in the 
San Francisco Jewish community. Their activism, particularly that of 
her mother, who brought food, entertainment, and joy to America's 
servicemembers in San Francisco during World War II, inspired Naomi's 
own commitment to the causes of equality and justice.
  Naomi's political activism began in the 1950s in the civil rights and 
labor movements, most prominently by working with Cesar Chavez and the 
Farmworkers.
  Her grassroots organizing and mobilizing helped in the fight to end 
segregation and to expand access to quality education for all.
  Her commitment to upholding the dignity of every person knew no 
bounds.
  Naomi and her husband of 61 years, Bob, were fierce supporters of 
Israel and worked tirelessly to strengthen the U.S.-Israel 
relationship. Naomi was a pillar of the San Francisco Jewish community, 
where she was dedicated to forging connections between young Jewish 
Americans and the State of Israel.
  Her leadership in spearheading the San Francisco Holocaust Memorial 
and training generations of volunteers around the country will benefit 
the Jewish community for years to come.
  In conclusion, Mr. Speaker, I say that many political and civic 
leaders depended on Naomi's wise counsel, and with her passing, they 
have lost a dear friend. We will all profoundly miss her warmth and 
wonderful leadership.
  Above all, Naomi was passionate about her family; her husband, Bob; 
her four beautiful children, David Jonathan, Sarah, and Sam; and her 
grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
  Our families were close neighbors and remain good friends. The Pelosi 
family was welcomed to many Shabbat and Passover Seder dinners with the 
Lauter family, and they joined us for Christmas. We celebrated 
together, just as we organized and worked together.
  May it bring comfort to the Lauter family that so many share their 
sorrow at the passing of this much beloved and inspiring woman.

                          ____________________



