

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 147 (Tuesday, September 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 147 (Tuesday, September 12, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S5215-S5219]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 253

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Moran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 253, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to repeal the Medicare outpatient 
rehabilitation therapy caps.


                                 S. 292

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 292, a bill to 
maximize discovery, and accelerate development and availability, of 
promising childhood cancer treatments, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 372

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Cassidy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 372, a bill to amend the 
Tariff Act of 1930 to ensure that merchandise arriving through the mail 
shall be subject to review by U.S. Customs and Border Protection and to 
require the provision of advance electronic information on shipments of 
mail to U.S. Customs and Border Protection and for other purposes.


                                 S. 428

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mrs. Fischer) was added as a cosponsor of S. 428, a bill to amend 
titles XIX and XXI of the Social Security Act to

[[Page S5216]]

authorize States to provide coordinated care to children with complex 
medical conditions through enhanced pediatric health homes, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 445

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Bennet) was added as a cosponsor of S. 445, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to ensure more timely access to home 
health services for Medicare beneficiaries under the Medicare program.


                                 S. 479

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 479, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to waive coinsurance under Medicare 
for colorectal cancer screening tests, regardless of whether 
therapeutic intervention is required during the screening.


                                 S. 482

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 482, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to treat certain amounts paid for 
physical activity, fitness, and exercise as amounts paid for medical 
care.


                                 S. 497

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from New 
Mexico (Mr. Udall) was added as a cosponsor of S. 497, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for Medicare coverage 
of certain lymphedema compression treatment items as items of durable 
medical equipment.


                                 S. 540

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 540, a bill to limit the 
authority of States to tax certain income of employees for employment 
duties performed in other States.


                                 S. 609

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 609, a bill to amend the 
Department of Veterans Affairs Health Care Programs Enhancement Act of 
2001 and title 38, United States Code, to require the provision of 
chiropractic care and services to veterans at all Department of 
Veterans Affairs medical centers and to expand access to such care and 
services, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 701

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 701, a bill 
to improve the competitiveness of United States manufacturing by 
designating and supporting manufacturing communities.


                                 S. 783

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the names of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) and the Senator from Michigan (Mr. Peters) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 783, a bill to amend the Public Health 
Service Act to distribute maternity care health professionals to health 
professional shortage areas identified as in need of maternity care 
health services.


                                 S. 787

  At the request of Mr. Gardner, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 787, a bill to require the 
Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation to test the effect of 
including telehealth services in Medicare health care delivery reform 
models.


                                 S. 870

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mrs. Fischer) was added as a cosponsor of S. 870, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to implement Medicare payment 
policies designed to improve management of chronic disease, streamline 
care coordination, and improve quality outcomes without adding to the 
deficit.


                                S. 1002

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the name of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Udall) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1002, a bill to enhance the 
ability of community financial institutions to foster economic growth 
and serve their communities, boost small businesses, increase 
individual savings, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1028

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1028, a bill to provide for 
the establishment and maintenance of a National Family Caregiving 
Strategy, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1050

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the names of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) and the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Van 
Hollen) were added as cosponsors of S. 1050, a bill to award a 
Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the Chinese-American 
Veterans of World War II, in recognition of their dedicated service 
during World War II.


                                S. 1057

  At the request of Mr. Schumer, his name was added as a cosponsor of 
S. 1057, a bill to amend the Harmful Algal Bloom and Hypoxia Research 
and Control Act of 1998 to address harmful algal blooms, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1112

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1112, a bill to 
support States in their work to save and sustain the health of mothers 
during pregnancy, childbirth, and in the postpartum period, to 
eliminate disparities in maternal health outcomes for pregnancy-related 
and pregnancy-associated deaths, to identify solutions to improve 
health care quality and health outcomes for mothers, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1266

  At the request of Mr. Inhofe, the names of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1266, a bill to authorize the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs to enter into contracts with nonprofit organizations 
to investigate medical centers of the Department of Veterans Affairs.


                                S. 1353

  At the request of Mr. Leahy, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1353, a bill to require 
States to automatically register eligible voters to vote in elections 
for Federal offices, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1568

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1568, a bill to 
require the Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in commemoration of 
President John F. Kennedy.


                                S. 1697

  At the request of Mr. Graham, the names of the Senator from Texas 
(Mr. Cornyn), the Senator from Virginia (Mr. Warner) and the Senator 
from Alaska (Mr. Sullivan) were added as cosponsors of S. 1697, a bill 
to condition assistance to the West Bank and Gaza on steps by the 
Palestinian Authority to end violence and terrorism against Israeli 
citizens and United States Citizens.


                                S. 1742

  At the request of Ms. Stabenow, the names of the Senator from New 
York (Mrs. Gillibrand) and the Senator from New Mexico (Mr. Heinrich) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 1742, a bill to amend title XVIII of the 
Social Security Act to provide for an option for any citizen or 
permanent resident of the United States age 55 to 64 to buy into 
Medicare.


                                S. 1766

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1766, a bill to 
reauthorize the SAFER Act of 2013, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1768

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Mr. Sullivan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1768, a bill to 
reauthorize and amend the National Earthquake Hazards Reduction 
Program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1776

  At the request of Mr. Franken, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1776, a bill to amend the 
Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 to reauthorize energy 
programs through fiscal year 2023, and for other purposes.

[[Page S5217]]

  



                                S. 1783

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1783, a bill 
to amend the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 to require each 
State to implement a process under which individuals who are 16 years 
of age may apply to register to vote in elections for Federal office in 
the State, to direct the Election Assistance Commission to make grants 
to States to increase the involvement of minors in public election 
activities, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1784

  At the request of Mr. Murphy, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Reed) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1784, a bill to amend 
the Higher Education Act of 1965 to improve the determination of cohort 
default rates and provide for enhanced civil penalties, to ensure 
personal liability of owners, officers, and executives of institutions 
of higher education, and for other purposes.


                               S. RES. 61

  At the request of Mr. McCain, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cornyn) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 61, a resolution calling on 
the Department of Defense, other elements of the Federal Government, 
and foreign governments to intensify efforts to investigate, recover, 
and identify all missing and unaccounted-for personnel of the United 
States.


                              S. RES. 168

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 168, a resolution 
supporting respect for human rights and encouraging inclusive 
governance in Ethiopia.


                              S. RES. 220

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
Res. 220, a resolution expressing solidarity with Falun Gong 
practitioners who have lost lives, freedoms, and rights for adhering to 
their beliefs and practices and condemning the practice of non-
consenting organ harvesting, and for other purposes.


                              S. RES. 250

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 250, a resolution 
condemning horrific acts of violence against Burma's Rohingya 
population and calling on Aung San Suu Kyi to play an active role in 
ending this humanitarian tragedy.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 329

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the names of the Senator from New York 
(Mr. Schumer), the Senator from Vermont (Mr. Leahy), the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) and the Senator from Washington (Mrs. Murray) 
were added as cosponsors of amendment No. 329 intended to be proposed 
to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for 
military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 393

  At the request of Mr. Inhofe, the names of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) and the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Merkley) were added as 
cosponsors of amendment No. 393 intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, 
to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military 
activities of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and 
for defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe 
military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other 
purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 394

  At the request of Mr. Inhofe, the names of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) and the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Merkley) were added as 
cosponsors of amendment No. 394 intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, 
to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military 
activities of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and 
for defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe 
military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other 
purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 464

  At the request of Mr. Lee, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cruz) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 464 intended to be 
proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 
for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 556

  At the request of Mr. Inhofe, the names of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) and the Senator from Florida (Mr. Nelson) were 
added as cosponsors of amendment No. 556 intended to be proposed to 
H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for 
military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 563

  At the request of Mr. Udall, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 563 intended to 
be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 592

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the names of the Senator from Iowa (Mr. 
Grassley) and the Senator from West Virginia (Mr. Manchin) were added 
as cosponsors of amendment No. 592 intended to be proposed to H.R. 
2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military 
activities of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and 
for defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe 
military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other 
purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 663

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 663 
intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for 
fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, 
for military construction, and for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 674

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Leahy) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 674 intended to 
be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 701

  At the request of Ms. Harris, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 701 intended to 
be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 730

  At the request of Mr. Boozman, his name was added as a cosponsor of 
amendment No. 730 intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize 
appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the 
Department of Defense, for military construction, and for defense 
activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel 
strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes.
  At the request of Mr. Lee, his name was added as a cosponsor of 
amendment No. 730 intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, supra.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 735

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 735 
intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for 
fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, 
for military construction, and for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe

[[Page S5218]]

military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other 
purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 775

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 775 
intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for 
fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, 
for military construction, and for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 789

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Toomey) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 789 
intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for 
fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, 
for military construction, and for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 796

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio), the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Portman), the Senator from 
Delaware (Mr. Coons) and the Senator from Texas (Mr. Cruz) were added 
as cosponsors of amendment No. 796 intended to be proposed to H.R. 
2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military 
activities of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and 
for defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe 
military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other 
purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 801

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 
801 intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the Department of 
Defense, for military construction, and for defense activities of the 
Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for 
such fiscal year, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 811

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 811 
intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for 
fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, 
for military construction, and for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 812

  At the request of Mr. Graham, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 
812 intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the Department of 
Defense, for military construction, and for defense activities of the 
Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for 
such fiscal year, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 814

  At the request of Mr. Graham, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 
814 intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the Department of 
Defense, for military construction, and for defense activities of the 
Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for 
such fiscal year, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 819

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 819 intended to 
be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 826

  At the request of Mr. Cotton, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mrs. 
Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 826 intended to be 
proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 
for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 828

  At the request of Ms. Stabenow, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Ms. Collins) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 828 intended to 
be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 843

  At the request of Mr. Strange, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Portman) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 843 intended to be 
proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 
for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 850

  At the request of Mr. Franken, the name of the Senator from Texas 
(Mr. Cornyn) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 850 intended to 
be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 853

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Leahy) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 853 intended to 
be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 891

  At the request of Mr. Leahy, the names of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin), the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) and the 
Senator from California (Mrs. Feinstein) were added as cosponsors of 
amendment No. 891 intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize 
appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the 
Department of Defense, for military construction, and for defense 
activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel 
strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 893

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Ms. Collins) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 893 intended to 
be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 906

  At the request of Mr. Inhofe, the names of the Senator from Arizona 
(Mr. Flake) and the Senator from Wyoming (Mr. Barrasso) were added as 
cosponsors of amendment No. 906 intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, 
to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military 
activities of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and 
for defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe 
military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other 
purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 930

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, his name was added as a cosponsor of 
amendment No. 930 intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize 
appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the 
Department of Defense, for military construction, and for defense 
activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel 
strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes.

[[Page S5219]]

  

                          ____________________



