

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 203 (Wednesday, December 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 203 (Wednesday, December 13, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7980-S7981]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         TAX CUTS AND JOBS BILL

  Mr. McCONNELL. Now, on one final matter, Madam President, later 
today, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act conference committee will host an open 
meeting to discuss its progress in resolving the differences between 
the House and Senate versions of the bill.
  The conferees have been working diligently to produce a report that 
both Chambers can vote on soon. Once they complete their work, Congress 
will be able to fulfill our commitment to the American people and 
deliver real tax reform.
  For too long, the hardworking men and women of Kentucky and our 
Nation have endured a struggling economy and a broken tax code. Rates 
are too high. The structure is too complicated to understand, and it is 
too easy for the wealthy and the well-connected to exploit. Incentives 
are so nonsensical that some actually encourage corporations to ship 
American jobs overseas.
  It is time for a change. Passing pro-family and pro-growth tax reform 
is the single most important action we can take right now to grow our 
economy and help the middle class get ahead.
  Families deserve a tax system that works for them; and along with 
President Trump and his team, this Republican-led Congress is working 
to deliver. This is our chance to set a new course--to undo the damage 
that our outdated Tax Code has inflicted on the economy over the last 
decade.

  For the Americans who were left behind by the Obama economy, this is 
our opportunity to provide relief. We want to make your taxes lower, 
simpler, and fairer. We want to bring investment and jobs back home and 
keep them here. The bottom line is this: We want to take more money out 
of Washington's pocket and put more money into the pockets of the 
middle class. I am confident the conference committee will finalize a 
bill that does just that.
  It will also repeal ObamaCare's individual mandate tax, delivering 
relief to low- and middle-income Americans who have struggled under an 
unpopular and unworkable law.
  In addition to this once-in-a-generation tax relief, our legislation 
will also provide for our Nation's energy future. By further developing 
Alaska's oil and gas potential, this bill will help create jobs, 
support energy independence, and promote our national security.
  The forthcoming conference report represents our chance to provide a 
real

[[Page S7981]]

benefit to families and small businesses across the Nation. I am 
grateful to the members of the conference committee for their hard work 
to resolve the differences between the two bills. I look forward to 
voting for the final product soon.

                          ____________________



