

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 169 (Thursday, October 19, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 169 (Thursday, October 19, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6638]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     TRIBUTE TO ROBERT HIGDON, JR.

  Mr. TILLIS. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize Robert Higdon, 
Jr., and congratulate him on his appointment as the U.S. Attorney for 
the Eastern District of North Carolina.
  Bobby earned both his law degree and undergraduate degree from Wake 
Forest University and has a decorated career in public service and in 
private practice. Prior to law school, he worked for then-Secretary of 
Transportation Elizabeth Dole and for Senator John East. Upon 
graduating from law school, Bobby served as a law clerk to Judge Eugene 
H. Phillips on the North Carolina Court of Appeals. After working for 
several years in private practice, he began a successful career as a 
Federal prosecutor.
  From 1991 until 2015, Bobby served in the U.S. Attorney's Office and 
the U.S. Department of Justice in a number of roles, including chief of 
the criminal division in the Eastern District of North Carolina. He has 
vast experience investigating, prosecuting, and advising on criminal 
cases, ranging from violent crime and drug trafficking to white collar 
and public integrity crimes.
  Aside from his sterling legal career, Bobby is an active member of 
his community, inspiring and helping others. He serves his church as a 
volunteer and a Sunday School teacher, and he has mentored the next 
generation of lawyers by coaching in various mock trial competitions. 
His example reminds us that our roles as public servants extend beyond 
the office.
  It was an honor to recommend Bobby Higdon to President Trump. Anyone 
who works with him knows he is a dedicated professional who has 
extensive legal knowledge and expertise. In addition, he is widely 
respected in the law enforcement community, and these relationships 
will be incredibly valuable as he takes on this important role. Bobby 
understands the challenges and issues facing North Carolina, and I know 
that he will continue to lead the U.S. Attorney's Office with dignity 
and respect.

                          ____________________



