

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 199 (Wednesday, December 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 199 (Wednesday, December 6, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7889-S7890]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      TRIBUTE TO CHARLOTTE BOBICKI

  Mr. BENNET. Mr. President, I wish to recognize and thank a dedicated 
community leader and civil servant, Charlotte Bobicki. She served as my 
regional representative in Alamosa, CO, and the San Luis Valley for 8 
years.
  Charlotte began her career as a first grade teacher in Albuquerque, 
NM. In the early 1960s, she taught second grade in Yellow Springs, MD, 
while her husband, Tom, served in the Army at Fort Detrick, MD.
  In the late sixties, Charlotte and Tom returned to Alamosa, CO, where 
she was born and had attended college. Charlotte taught fifth and sixth 
graders at Alamosa Evans Intermediate School. She then worked with 
special education students before transitioning to Alamosa Middle 
School, where she taught math and science and served as the assistant 
principal. Later she became principal at Polston Primary School.
  In 1997, Charlotte was elected as an Alamosa County Commissioner, 
where she served two 4-year terms. In 2005, Senator Ken Salazar hired 
her as his regional representative in Alamosa. When I was appointed to 
the Senate, I asked Charlotte to continue as the regional 
representative to Alamosa for the San Luis Valley, and she has served 
in that role for the last 8 years. Since

[[Page S7890]]

then, I have repeatedly relied on her counsel and deep knowledge of the 
valley.
  Her relationships and devotion to the community have been invaluable, 
and I will miss her insights and perspective. It has been an honor to 
work with Charlotte, and I wish her a long and happy retirement. I know 
our friendship will continue for years to come.

                          ____________________



