

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 147 (Tuesday, September 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 147 (Tuesday, September 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H7226]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




           NEW JERSEYANS EMBODY THE BEST AMERICA HAS TO OFFER

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from New 
Jersey (Mr. Pallone) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, last week I was outraged when President 
Trump announced that he would be ending the DACA program. DACA 
recipients are contributing members of our society, have no criminal 
record, and have known only this country as home. They work at leading 
American companies. They have served our country in the military.
  On the day of the President's decision, I met with several young 
people at Rutgers University in my district who may now face 
deportation. I was impressed by their courage in coming forward to tell 
their stories and to challenge the President's reckless action.
  Some examples: Yeimi, a 17-year-old from Freehold, left Mexico when 
she was 1 year old. She said at the meeting I had: ``I do want to 
become something in life, because that is why I am here. I do not want 
this dream to be shattered because DACA, apparently, is going to be 
killed.''
  Then there is Alma, a 23-year-old from Perth Amboy in my district, 
who added: ``DACA has opened doors for me that I never knew existed. 
The elimination of this executive order without an appropriate 
replacement would not only be devastating for DREAMers but to the 
country as a whole.'' And I agree with Alma.
  Mr. Speaker, these New Jerseyans embody the best America has to 
offer, and I will continue to stand by their side as we work together 
to protect their DACA status. We need to pass the Dream Act as quickly 
as possible.

                          ____________________



