

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 171 (Tuesday, October 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 171 (Tuesday, October 24, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6766]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               TRIBUTE TO REVEREND DR. JONATHAN L. WEAVER

 Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize and 
congratulate Rev. Dr. Jonathan L. Weaver, pastor of the Greater Mt. 
Nebo African Methodist Episcopal Church, on his 30th pastoral 
anniversary. Since 1988, Reverend Weaver has served with vision and 
distinction and has dedicated himself to empowering his parishioners 
and people throughout our community.
  Reverend Weaver is an outstanding example of what it means to be 
engaged in a community. Under his leadership, the Greater Mt. Nebo 
African Methodist Episcopal Church has initiated numerous innovative 
programs on critical issues, including domestic violence prevention, 
economic empowerment, and anti-hunger. In addition, Reverend Weaver's 
sense of community transcends the borders of the United States. He has 
led mission trips to Africa, engaging in medical mission projects in 
Rwanda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
  Reverend Weaver currently serves as national president of the 
Collective Empowerment Group, Inc., CEG, an ecumenical association 
comprised of nearly 500 churches across the country. CEG engages in 
economic empowerment initiatives focused on financial literacy, 
education, healthcare, homeownership preservation, and public safety 
through partnerships with banks and other businesses in their 
communities.
  In 2015, Reverend Weaver became board chairman of Industrial Bank, an 
organization that has been recognized for its contributions to the 
growth and development of the greater Washington, DC, metropolitan area 
since 1934. He holds a bachelor's degree in business administration 
from Washington University in St. Louis, MO, and an MBA from Harvard 
University. Reverend Weaver has been married to Pamela Weaver for 30 
years and has two children, Jamie Davis and Megan Holland, and four 
grandchildren.
  Over the last 30 years, Reverend Weaver has personified the Greater 
Mt. Nebo African Methodist Episcopal Church's traditions of service and 
leadership. I ask my colleagues to join me in expressing our deepest 
gratitude and appreciation to Reverend Weaver for his 30 years of 
service to the Greater Mt. Nebo African Methodist Episcopal Church and 
to our community.

                          ____________________



