

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 177 (Wednesday, November 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 177 (Wednesday, November 1, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6966-S6967]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




    40TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE MAINE COALITION TO END DOMESTIC VIOLENCE

  Mr. KING. Mr. President, today I wish to honor the 40th anniversary 
of the Maine Coalition to End Domestic Violence, MCEDV, and its nine 
member organizations and resource centers: Hope and Justice Project, 
Partners for Peace, Next Step, New Hope for Women, Family Violence 
Project, Safe Voices, Family Crisis Services, Caring Unlimited, and 
Immigrant Resource Center of Maine. I am humbled and thankful for their 
tireless service to end the cycle of abuse existing in too many homes 
across Maine, our Nation, and the world.
  Originally formed in 1977 as the Maine Coalition for Family Crisis 
Services, and renamed the Maine Coalition to End Domestic Violence in 
2001, the MCEDV has spent four decades being advocates for victims of 
domestic violence and have never lost their focus. Their efforts have 
helped countless people find their own voices and regain their strength 
to live a violence-free life. The MCEDV has helped ensure there are 
direct service programs, shelters, transitional housing, and court 
advocacy available to everyone throughout our State. Not only do they 
partner with the nine member-projects mentioned above, but they also 
coordinate efforts and give voice to the education of the public, 
lawmakers, law enforcement, friends, and neighbors to make domestic 
violence a community-State-national and global issue that each of us 
has a responsibility to confront.
  It is not possible to put words to the significant impact the MCEDV 
has had, the lives that have been saved, and terrifying existences 
turned into futures of peace. However, it would not be fair to their 
work to not acknowledge the lives that have been lost to domestic 
violence. All genders, all ages, all

[[Page S6967]]

races, all socio-economics categories, domestic violence knows no 
boundaries, and fear continues to be a strong silencer. However, with 
the support and services provided by the MCEDV and its membership, many 
victims have found exceptional strength to tell their story, found 
their courage to name the abuse and the abuser and support others to 
shine a light on this pandemic of violence.
  I cannot overstate how awe-inspiring the exceptional staying power 
and determination of this coalition of advocates is and how impactful 
their efforts are. They have not only mobilized a state-wide interest 
in the topic of domestic violence but have also inspired people to work 
with them to even further strengthen the message that there is no 
excuse for domestic abuse. It has been said that peace in the world 
starts with peace in the home. Thank you to the MCEDV for living those 
words and helping to change the world for the better.

                          ____________________



