

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 175 (Monday, October 30, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 175 (Monday, October 30, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6872]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

        RECOGNIZING SOUTHWEST CONFERENCE HALL OF FAME INDUCTEES

 Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I wish to recognize the long and 
proud history of University of Arkansas collegiate athletes who have 
made us proud to cheer on the Razorbacks. Arkansas has achieved 
tremendous levels of success throughout the history of its athletic 
program. You cannot discuss Razorback sports history without discussing 
its time in the Southwest Conference. The Southwest Conference was 
highly competitive, and its teams produced many of our Nation's 
greatest athletes, including many from Arkansas. As we reflect on the 
rich history of the conference, I am proud to recognize the Razorbacks 
selected as class of 2017 inductees for the Southwest Conference Hall 
of Fame.
  I congratulate Razorback football greats Jim Benton, Ronnie Caveness, 
Joe Ferguson, Steve Little, Fred Marshall, Wear Schoonover, Billy Ray 
Smith, Sr., and Dennis ``Dirt'' Winston; former Razorback basketball 
players, Ron Brewer, Amber Shirey, and Darrell Walker; and track stars 
Edrick Floreal and Cynthia Moore on their induction today.
  I would like to congratulate the late Orville Henry on his induction 
to the Southwest Conference Hall of Fame. Mr. Henry is an iconic 
Arkansas sports writer who covered the Razorbacks for six decades. His 
work, professionalism, and legacy live on to this day.
  Earlier this month, former Razorback All-American football player 
Dick Bumpas was also inducted into the Hall of Fame along with eight 
other former Southwest Conference legends.
  The Razorback nominees to the Southwest Conference Hall of Fame Class 
of 2017 have certainly earned this honor. I applaud these former 
Razorbacks for their contribution to not just the legacy of the 
Southwest Conference but also for their contribution to the legacy of 
Arkansas athletics.

                          ____________________



