

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 200 (Thursday, December 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 200 (Thursday, December 7, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9719]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 RUSSIA'S EXPULSION FROM 2018 OLYMPICS

  (Ms. KAPTUR asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend her remarks.)
  Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, the International Olympic Committee has 
banned Russia from the 2018 Winter Olympics due to rampant and state-
backed doping. The Olympic Committee says that Russia's scale of 
cheating is unprecedented.
  Unfortunately, this is yet another example that the enemy of 
democracy knows no limits under the Putin regime. Russia's Government 
and its corruption--some say depravity--is so pervasive that it even 
tarnishes the dignified and ancient tradition of the Olympic Games.
  Russia dishonors athletes around the world who make countless 
sacrifices and give their blood, sweat, and tears to compete. While 
this decision rightly penalizes Russia, Russia is looking ahead to host 
the 2018 World Cup in soccer. Putin will relish this global platform to 
spew out his propaganda to the world while thousands of Ukrainians are 
killed and millions more throughout central Europe are stifled under 
his repressive thumb.
  The global community must be on alert. We must stand for liberty. We 
must counter Russia's corruption, interference, and aggression in all 
its forms.
  As the 2018 World Cup nears, I call upon the international community 
to choose again an honorable field on which the world's athletes can 
compete.
  Mr. Speaker, I include in today's Record a news article from The New 
York Times dated December 5, 2017, titled ``Russia Banned from Winter 
Olympics by IOC.''

                          ____________________



