

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 154 (Tuesday, September 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 154 (Tuesday, September 26, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6131]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               RECOGNIZING THE FOSTER GRANDPARENT PROGRAM

 Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, today I have the honor of 
recognizing the administrators and volunteers of the Western Montana 
Area VI Agency on Aging Foster Grandparent Program. Based in the small 
town of Polson, MT, the program covers six mainly rural western Montana 
counties and the area's lone Indian reservation. Every year, the lives 
of dozens of children across Montana are changed for the better by the 
Foster Grandparent program, and dozens of senior citizens are able to 
use their time and skills to make a difference in the life of a child.
  Foster grandparents are able to volunteer in many different settings, 
including schools, afterschool programs, Head Start programs, teen 
mentorship programs, and correctional facilities. With many communities 
in western Montana facing high unemployment, as well as meth and opioid 
drug crises, the Foster Grandparent program has a particular focus on 
at-risk children. Foster grandparents support children who have been 
abused or neglected, provide mentorship to teens, and help children 
with disabilities.
  This week, community members and the Western Montana Area VI Agency 
on Aging are gathering to honor foster grandparents. Included in that 
group is Navy veteran Karl Paddock, who is receiving a special award 
for his service to the program. Our communities need more people like 
Karl and all of the foster grandparents who are willing to step up and 
make a difference in the lives of our most precious resource: our 
children.
  It is my hope that the Western Montana Area VI Agency on Aging Foster 
Grandparent Program will continue to grow in the years to come. I 
congratulate everyone involved in its success and the difference it is 
making for the communities of western Montana.

                          ____________________



