

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 164 (Thursday, October 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 164 (Thursday, October 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H7979]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




          HONORING THE MANY ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF STUART EPPERSON

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
North Carolina (Ms. Foxx) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize North Carolina Fifth 
District constituent, Mr. Stuart Epperson, whose work has positively 
affected so many in North Carolina and so many across this great 
Nation.
  Stuart, or ``Stu,'' as his friends know him, is living proof that not 
only is the American Dream possible, it is achievable if you are simply 
willing to work hard for it. Stu's story is a model one for all.

                              {time}  1015

  Growing up on a small tobacco farm in Virginia, Stu learned hard work 
and perseverance. In the 1980s, Stu and his brother-in-law started the 
Salem Media Group to minister to and report positive news to families 
across the country.
  Under his leadership, Salem Media Group and Salem Radio now host 120 
radio stations, 67 of which are in the top 25 markets, and operate 
2,400 affiliates.
  Mr. Speaker, at a time when many Americans opt to turn off the news 
due to the negative content, Mr. Epperson's audience is tuning in to be 
inspired and to be informed.
  The content put forth by the Salem Media Group serves as a beacon of 
hope to the many families seeking positive and instructive stories.
  Mr. Speaker, when I consider the body of Mr. Epperson's work, I am 
reminded of the parable of the faithful servant in Luke 12:48. The Good 
Book tells us that: ``For unto whomsoever much is given, of him much 
shall be required. . . . `'
  The Lord has certainly gifted Mr. Epperson with some amazing 
abilities, and in return, Mr. Epperson has used these talents to give 
back to multiple community activities.
  Among those activities are the Winston-Salem Rescue Mission, Salem 
Pregnancy Care Center, One Kid at a Time mentoring program, and the 
Christian Association of Youth Mentoring, which he founded.
  Finally, Mr. Speaker, I am sure that Stu would agree that the adage 
``behind every good man is a good woman'' is a true one for him. Stu 
married the love of his life, Nancy Etsinger Epperson, 54 years ago. 
This lovely couple has 4 children and 21 grandchildren.
  I commend Stu Epperson not only for his many accomplishments but also 
for his dedication to ensuring that radio remains family-friendly and 
value-focused. In recognition of Stu's life and work, I am pleased to 
announce that soon Stu will be receiving the highly coveted Vision and 
Leadership Award from the Family Research Council. This award is justly 
deserved by such an accomplished man, and I add my salute to him.
  I know that the community in Winston-Salem, this Nation, and the 
wider world have benefitted from Stu Epperson's many efforts to make 
the world a better place. I commend Mr. Epperson on his many 
accomplishments and his service to our Nation.

                          ____________________



