

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 171 (Tuesday, October 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 171 (Tuesday, October 24, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H8085]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  WELCOMING RABBI DAVID-SETH KIRSHNER

  The SPEAKER. Without objection, the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. 
Gottheimer) is recognized for 1 minute.
  There was no objection.
  Mr. GOTTHEIMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to welcome to the U.S. 
House of Representatives my dear friend and my adopted rabbi, David-
Seth Kirshner, the leader of Temple Emanu-El in my congressional 
district in Closter, New Jersey.
  As a lifelong New Jersey resident, Rabbi Kirshner has dedicated his 
career to serving his family, community, and our country. Dori and 
David are proud and loving parents to Eve and Elias, and I am glad they 
are here. Rabbi Kirshner is a spiritual mentor to many and a man of 
deep faith, conviction, and conscience.
  Temple Emanu-El has been a beacon of civic engagement, youth 
education, and community service in our State, and under Rabbi 
Kirshner's leadership, Temple Emanu-El has brought a warm and open 
atmosphere that will endure for generations to come, building on its 
85-year history of service to our State.
  Rabbi Kirshner and Temple Emanu-El call on each of us to do our part 
to engage in ``repair of the world,'' ``tikkun olam,'' to love your 
neighbor as yourself, and to fulfill God's commandments with the work 
of our hands.
  In addition to his work as rabbi of Temple Emanu-El, Rabbi Kirshner 
is a leader among his colleagues, serving as the vice president of the 
New Jersey Board of Rabbis and as a member of the Chancellor's Rabbinic 
Cabinet at the Jewish Theological Seminary.
  A strong advocate for the U.S.-Israel relationship, Rabbi Kirshner is 
on the New Jersey-Israel Commission. He is a believer that Israel is a 
key strategic ally and a defender of democracy and freedom against the 
evils of terror.
  I would like to thank Rabbi Kirshner for praying with us today and 
representing all faiths of the Fifth Congressional District of New 
Jersey.
  May God continue to bless the United States of America.

                          ____________________



