

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 177 (Wednesday, November 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 177 (Wednesday, November 1, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6972]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




  SENATE RESOLUTION 320--SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND IDEALS OF NATIONAL 
DOMESTIC VIOLENCE AWARENESS MONTH, COMMENDING DOMESTIC VIOLENCE VICTIM 
 ADVOCATES, DOMESTIC VIOLENCE VICTIM SERVICE PROVIDERS, CRISIS HOTLINE 
 STAFF, AND FIRST RESPONDERS SERVING VICTIMS OF DOMESTIC VIOLENCE FOR 
  THEIR COMPASSIONATE SUPPORT OF SURVIVORS OF DOMESTIC VIOLENCE, AND 
  EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF THE SENATE THAT CONGRESS SHOULD CONTINUE TO 
SUPPORT EFFORTS TO END DOMESTIC VIOLENCE, PROVIDE SAFETY FOR VICTIMS OF 
DOMESTIC VIOLENCE AND THEIR FAMILIES, AND HOLD PERPETRATORS OF DOMESTIC 
                          VIOLENCE ACCOUNTABLE

  Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Cornyn, and Ms. 
Klobuchar) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and 
agreed to:

                              S. Res. 320

       Whereas, according to the National Intimate Partner and 
     Sexual Violence Survey--
       (1) up to 12,000,000 individuals in the United States 
     report experiencing intimate partner violence, including 
     physical violence, rape, or stalking; and
       (2) approximately 1 in 5 women in the United States and up 
     to 1 in 7 men in the United States have experienced severe 
     physical violence by an intimate partner at some point in 
     their lifetimes;
       Whereas, on average, 3 women in the United States are 
     killed each day by a current or former intimate partner, 
     according to the Bureau of Justice Statistics;
       Whereas domestic violence can affect anyone, but women aged 
     18 to 34 typically experience the highest rates of intimate 
     partner violence;
       Whereas most female victims of intimate partner violence 
     have been victimized by the same offender previously;
       Whereas domestic violence is cited as a significant factor 
     in homelessness among families;
       Whereas millions of children are exposed to domestic 
     violence each year;
       Whereas research shows that boys who are exposed to 
     domestic violence in their households are more likely to 
     become perpetrators of intimate partner violence;
       Whereas victims of domestic violence experience immediate 
     and long-term negative outcomes, including detrimental 
     effects on mental and physical health;
       Whereas victims of domestic violence may lose several days 
     of paid work each year and may lose their jobs due to reasons 
     stemming from domestic violence;
       Whereas crisis hotlines serving domestic violence victims 
     operate 24 hours per day, 365 days per year, and offer 
     important crisis intervention services, support services, 
     information, and referrals for victims;
       Whereas staff and volunteers of domestic violence shelters 
     and programs in the United States, in cooperation with 56 
     State and territorial coalitions against domestic violence, 
     serve--
       (1) thousands of adults and children each day; and
       (2) 1,000,000 adults and children each year;
       Whereas, according to a 2016 survey conducted by the 
     National Network to End Domestic Violence, 72,959 domestic 
     violence victims were served by domestic violence shelters 
     and programs around the United States in a single day;
       Whereas law enforcement officers in the United States put 
     their lives at risk each day by responding to incidents of 
     domestic violence, which can be among the most volatile and 
     deadly calls;
       Whereas Congress first demonstrated a significant 
     commitment to supporting victims of domestic violence with 
     the enactment of the landmark Family Violence Prevention and 
     Services Act (42 U.S.C. 10401 et seq.);
       Whereas Congress has remained committed to protecting 
     survivors of all forms of domestic violence and sexual abuse 
     by making Federal funding available to support the activities 
     that are authorized under--
       (1) the Family Violence Prevention and Services Act (42 
     U.S.C. 10401 et seq.); and
       (2) the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C. 12291 
     et seq.);
       Whereas there is a need to continue to support programs and 
     activities aimed at domestic violence intervention and 
     domestic violence prevention in the United States; and
       Whereas individuals and organizations that are dedicated to 
     preventing and ending domestic violence should be recognized: 
     Now, therefore, be it
       Resolved, That--
       (1) the Senate supports the goals and ideals of ``National 
     Domestic Violence Awareness Month''; and
       (2) it is the sense of the Senate that Congress should--
       (A) continue to raise awareness of domestic violence in the 
     United States and the corresponding devastating effects of 
     domestic violence on survivors, families, and communities; 
     and
       (B) pledge continued support for programs designed--
       (i) to assist survivors;
       (ii) to hold perpetrators accountable; and
       (iii) to bring an end to domestic violence.

  Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I want to remind my colleagues that we 
annually commemorate National Domestic Violence Awareness Month in 
November. This is a time when we're called to increase public awareness 
and understanding of domestic violence.


 =========================== NOTE =========================== 

  
  On page S6972, November 1, 2017, in the second column, the 
following appears: . . . annually commemorate is National Domestic 
Violence Awareness Month in October . . .
  
  The online Record has been corrected to read: . . . annually 
commemorate National Domestic Violence Awareness Month in 
November.


 ========================= END NOTE ========================= 

  As noted by the National Network to End Domestic Violence, domestic 
violence is a crime that thrives when we remain silent. That's why the 
Senate today passed the resolution that I recently introduced with 
Senator Feinstein to commemorate National Domestic Violence Awareness 
Month.
  As stated in our resolution, Congress should continue to raise 
awareness of domestic violence in the United States. We also should 
pledge our continued support for programs designed to assist survivors, 
hold perpetrators accountable, and bring an end to domestic violence.
  Congress has made support to survivors a national priority for over 
three decades, through the enactment of the Violence Against Women Act, 
the Victims of Crime Act, and other Federal laws. Through the enactment 
of laws criminalizing domestic violence at the State and local level, 
we've also sent a strong signal to abusers that domestic violence is 
not a ``private'' matter.
  We've come a long way, but we still have much work to do on this 
front. Even now, domestic violence affects millions in the United 
States, including women, men, and children of every age and socio-
economic status. About one in five women will at some point in their 
lifetime become a victim of this crime, according to the Centers for 
Disease Control.
  I applaud the many individuals and organizations in Iowa and 
elsewhere around the Nation that work around the clock to respond to 
victims in crisis. They include the hotline personnel who provide 
support 365 days a year. They include the staff and volunteers at 
shelters, who provide safe havens for those escaping abuse. They 
include the advocates who champion survivors' interests at the State 
and Federal levels. Last, but certainly not least, they include the 
first responders who compassionately respond to victims in crisis.
  We applaud their continued service and we continue to support the 
goals and ideals of National Domestic Violence Awareness Month.

                          ____________________



