

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 206 (Monday, December 18, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 206 (Monday, December 18, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S8068-S8069]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     CONFIRMATION OF DON R. WILLETT

  Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. President, I opposed the nomination of Don Willet 
to serve as a judge on the Fifth Circuit. Senate Republicans, lacking a 
robust legislative agenda, despite unilateral control of the 
government, decided to confirm another highly controversial nominee.
  Last week, Republicans confirmed three circuit court judges. In early 
November, Senate Republicans confirmed four judges in 1 week. This 
accelerated confirmation pace is unconventional and alarming. 
Republicans on the Judiciary Committee are willing to set aside decades 
of standing tradition and policies in order to confirm highly 
ideological judges who, in many cases, seem to have more of a political 
agenda than the impartial temperament necessary for the fair 
administration of justice.
  This seat has been open for years because Senate Republicans refused 
to work with the Obama administration and agree upon a consensus 
mainstream nominee that reflects the views and opinions of the majority 
of Americans. Now that Republicans are in the majority and no longer 
need to obstruct the White House, they have decided to advance Judge 
Willet, a judge described as the ``most conservative justice in 
Texas.''
  Judge Willet was on Trump's Supreme Court short list which indicates 
that he met the Federalist Society's and the Heritage Foundation's 
ideological litmus test. This should concern all Americans, regardless 
of party affiliation. Our judicial system should not be outsourced to 
outside groups who want to stack the courts with judges who share their 
extreme political agenda.
  Judge Willet has expressed insensitive views towards the LGBTQ 
community and skepticism that women face unique challenges in the work 
place, such as unequal pay and sexual harassment and discrimination. In 
light of the #MeToo movement and the countless women who have shared 
their stories of workplace sexual harassment,

[[Page S8069]]

Judge Willet's opinion is at best misinformed. I hope that Judge 
Willet's views have evolved since he wrote that opinion for then-
Governor George W. Bush.
  I also hope my colleagues will start to recognize that they are 
setting a dangerous precedent by turning the Senate into an assembly 
line for highly ideological judges who appear to be more aligned with a 
political agenda that the impartial administration of justice.

                          ____________________



