

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 188 (Thursday, November 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 188 (Thursday, November 16, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7294]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         TRIBUTE TO IKE MORRIS

 Mr. MANCHIN. Mr. President, today I wish to celebrate the 80th 
birthday of Ike Morris, a proud honorary West Virginian, a legendary 
businessman, and one of the dearest friends I have ever known.
  There is no better position to find yourself in than being able to 
give back to the community you love. I can attest my small hometown of 
Farmington helped mold who I am, and it brings so much joy to my life 
to be able to give back to the place that shaped me. Ike and I share a 
bond rooted in public service. Whether supporting Glenville State 
College or getting the tab at the Cornerstone Cafe in Glenville, Ike 
enjoys every minute of it.
  Ike got his start working for his father in the oil and gas business. 
Wanting to set out on his own, Ike moved to West Virginia in 1962 and 
worked servicing rigs until he established Waco Oil & Gas in 1975. No 
one in the north central region of the Mountain State gets confused 
when someone mentions ``Waco.'' When you say ``Waco'' around here, 
people think of Ike Morris. They don't think of Texas.
  It was in Glenville where Ike met the love of his life, Sue. He knew 
Sue was the right woman for him, and he knew that West Virginia was the 
right State for him. They have been married for over 50 years. As Ike 
can attest, once you come to West Virginia, it becomes part of you 
forever. The Mountain State made a lasting impact on him, and he and 
his family have made a lasting impact on the Mountain State. Ike is 
truly one of the most humble, generous and hard-working people I know.
  Together, Ike and Sue have contributed to the success of many 
projects at Glenville State College, which is also home to the I.L. 
``Ike'' and Sue Morris Stadium. As a lifelong educator and 1965 alumna 
of Glenville State, Sue knows how vital it is that our educational 
institutions are provided with the tools needed to keep up with ever-
changing technologies. Their generous spirit and compassion extend 
throughout the Glenville community and beyond, touching the lives of 
countless West Virginia workers, students, and businessowners--all 
traits they have passed to their children and grandchildren.
  Ike and Sue's children, Shelly and Doug, have both made Glenville 
their home. Ike and Sue are blessed with and immeasurably proud of 
their four grandchildren--Hannah, Luke, Ian, and Jordan--and their 
great-granddaughter, Arianna. Ike wouldn't let me stop without 
mentioning his beloved companion, Waco, his Labrador Retriever.
  Ike, as your family and friends honor you, I know this will be a 
sincerely memorable occasion for you to reflect on your many 
accomplishments and experiences, while you enjoy the company of your 
loved ones. You have provided so much happiness and wisdom to the lives 
of those around you throughout the years. It is my wish that the memory 
of this special day remains with you and Sue just as your guidance and 
influence will remain in all the lives you have touched.
  Again, it is with the greatest admiration that I send to you my best 
wishes on your special day. Happy Birthday.

                          ____________________



