

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 154 (Tuesday, September 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 154 (Tuesday, September 26, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H7494]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




           CONGRATULATING WAYNE MARSHFIELD ON HIS RETIREMENT

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from New 
York (Mr. Faso) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. FASO. Mr. Speaker, today, I rise to recognize the commitment and 
dedication of Wayne Marshfield, who just recently retired after 50 
years of hard work with the Delaware County Electric Cooperative.
  Over the course of his career, Wayne has supported the Cooperative's 
central mission of providing reliable and affordable energy services to 
families throughout its entire service area.

                              {time}  1045

  Wayne's leadership and penchant for innovation have significantly 
enhanced the Cooperative's operations in our upstate communities. For 
example, Wayne developed the service location system, which greatly 
improved his company's service mapping, allowing us to greater respond 
to emergencies and needs of the community. In addition, he implemented 
the smart meter to modernize the area's outage alerts.
  We thank Wayne Marshfield for his indispensable 50 years of service 
at the Delaware County Electric Cooperative, and also his 20 years-plus 
service as Hamden's town supervisor. Wayne has always gone above and 
beyond to ensure affordable and reliable power to our local homes and 
businesses.
  Mr. Speaker, I salute Wayne Marshfield.


             Northern Columbia Lions Club 70th Anniversary

  Mr. FASO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the Northern 
Columbia Lions Club, which will soon celebrate its 70th anniversary on 
September 30 of this year.
  Based in Valatie, New York, this Lions Club International post has a 
long history of extending a helping hand to neighbors in need. Its 
members practice charitable leadership, living out the Lions Club 
motto: ``Where there's a need, there's a Lion.''
  This year alone, the Northern Columbia Lions Club has hosted vision 
screening tests for preschoolers, held a successful eyeglass drive for 
people in underdeveloped countries, refurbished benches in Chatham's 
Callan Memorial Park, and awarded scholarships to local college-bound 
students.
  I thank our past and present members of the Northern Columbia Lions 
Club for their 70 years of dedication to a better Columbia County and a 
better world.

                          ____________________



