

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 195 (Thursday, November 30, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 195 (Thursday, November 30, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9524]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





                        NATIONAL ADOPTION MONTH

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Arkansas (Mr. Hill) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. HILL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today, during National Adoption Month, 
to encourage adoption and improvements in our foster care system across 
this land. Currently, there are roughly 428,000 children in America's 
foster care system, and nearly 112,000 of those children are waiting to 
be adopted into safe, permanent, and loving families.
  According to Arkansas State data, the number of foster youth has 
outpaced the number of spots available in foster homes by over 1,200 
children. Organizations around the State have been at the forefront of 
recruitment efforts for our foster families.
  One such organization is The CALL, locally directed by Lauri Currier. 
She notes that a stable, loving home can make a huge difference in a 
child's life, specifically with regard to escaping the grasp of neglect 
and abuse.
  I am proud to work with our majority leader, Mr. McCarthy, and my 
colleagues on the Congressional Caucus on Foster Youth to shed light on 
the perpetuation of poverty and dysfunction in our current system. We 
all must continue to work together and move forward in addressing our 
foster care system, and I emphasize Ms. Currier's statement on the 
importance of a loving home for every child.


                       Honoring Judge Tom Eisele

  Mr. HILL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life and legacy of 
one of our Nation's great lawyers and judges and, for me, a mentor and 
a great family friend, District Court Judge Tom Eisele, who passed away 
this past Sunday at the age of 94.
  Tom faithfully served our Nation as a private in the Army in World 
War II; as an adviser to Governor Winthrop Rockefeller in the 1990s; 
and for the past 41 years as a member of the Federal judiciary, 
following his appointment by President Nixon in 1970.
  During his career, Judge Eisele was named Best District Court Judge 
in the Eighth Circuit by The American Lawyer and Outstanding Federal 
Judge by the Association of Trial Lawyers of America. He was a role 
model and a friend to many across the State of Arkansas and our Nation.
  I extend my respect, affection, and prayers to his friends, family, 
and loved ones.


                      Love Little Rock Initiative

  Mr. HILL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the Little Rock 
Regional Chamber of Commerce's ``Love Little Rock'' initiative.
  This initiative is intended to both attract new business and 
encourage residents to become ``Love Little Rock'' ambassadors by 
sharing their pride using the #lovelittlerock hashtag.
  As a part of the campaign, the Little Rock Regional Chamber created 
the lovelittlerock.org website to highlight the numerous advantages of 
doing business in Arkansas' capital city. Led by Jay Chesshir, 
president and CEO of the Little Rock Regional Chamber, and Mayor Mark 
Stodola, this initiative is a powerful instrument for community 
development and business recruitment. Mayor Stodola proclaimed October 
19 as Love Little Rock Day.
  I extend my thanks to the city of Little Rock for spearheading this 
campaign. As a native son, I am proud to ``Love Little Rock.''

                          ____________________



