

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 148 (Wednesday, September 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 148 (Wednesday, September 13, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S5706]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I have two requests for committees to 
meet during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of 
the Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


           committee on commerce, science, and transportation

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to hold a meeting during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, 
September 13, 2017, at 10 a.m. in room 253 of the Russell Senate Office 
Building.
  The Committee will hold a Hearing ``Transportation Innovation: 
Automated Trucks and our Nation's Highways.''


               committee on environment and public works

  The Committee on Environment and Public Works is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, September 13, 2017, at 
10 a.m., in room 406 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building, to conduct 
a hearing entitled, ``Expanding and Accelerating the Deployment and Use 
of Carbon Capture, Utilization, and Sequestration.''


        committee on homeland security and governmental affairs

  The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, 
September 13, 2017, at 9:55 a.m. for a business meeting to consider 
pending committee business.


                      committee on indian affairs

  The Committee on Indian Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, September 13, 2017, in room 628 of 
the Dirksen Senate Office Building, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct an 
Oversight Hearing on ``High Risk Indian Programs: Progress and Efforts 
in Addressing GAO's Recommendations.''


                      committee on indian affairs

  The Committee on Indian Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, September 13, 2017, in room 628 of 
the Dirksen Senate Office Building, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a business 
meeting to consider the following: H.R. 984, Thomasina E. Jordan Indian 
Tribes of Virginia Federal Recognition Act of 2017; S. 1285, Oregon 
Tribal Economic Development Act; S. 1333, Tribal HUD-VASH Act of 2017.


       subcommittee on regulatory affairs and federal management

  The Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs and Federal Management of the 
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, September 13, 
2017 at 10 a.m., in order to conduct a hearing entitled, ``Examining 
OMB's Memorandum on the Federal Workforce, Part II: Expert Views on 
OMB's Ongoing Government-wide Reorganization.''

                          ____________________



