

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 149 (Thursday, September 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 149 (Thursday, September 14, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S5743-S5746]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 194

  At the request of Mr. Whitehouse, the name of the Senator from 
Illinois (Mr. Durbin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 194, a bill to 
amend the Public Health Service Act to establish a public health 
insurance option, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 292

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the names of the Senator from Iowa (Mrs. 
Ernst), the Senator from Florida (Mr. Nelson) and the Senator from Ohio 
(Mr. Portman) were added as cosponsors of S. 292, a bill to maximize 
discovery, and accelerate development and availability, of promising 
childhood cancer treatments, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 322

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) and the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. 
Murphy) were added as cosponsors of S. 322, a bill to protect victims 
of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, and dating violence 
from emotional and psychological trauma caused by acts of violence or 
threats of violence against their pets.


                                 S. 360

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from New 
Mexico (Mr. Udall) was added as a cosponsor of S. 360, a bill to amend 
the Help America Vote Act of 2002 to require States to provide for same 
day registration.


                                 S. 431

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 431, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to expand the use of telehealth 
for individuals with stroke.


                                 S. 464

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the names of the Senator from Minnesota

[[Page S5744]]

(Ms. Klobuchar) and the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 464, a bill to amend title XVIII of the 
Social Security Act to provide for a permanent Independence at Home 
medical practice program under the Medicare program.


                                 S. 479

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the names of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Daines) and the Senator from Idaho (Mr. Risch) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 479, a bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
Security Act to waive coinsurance under Medicare for colorectal cancer 
screening tests, regardless of whether therapeutic intervention is 
required during the screening.


                                 S. 683

  At the request of Ms. Hirono, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 683, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to extend the requirement to 
provide nursing home care to certain veterans with service-connected 
disabilities.


                                 S. 705

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 705, a bill to amend the 
National Child Protection Act of 1993 to establish a national criminal 
history background check system and criminal history review program for 
certain individuals who, related to their employment, have access to 
children, the elderly, or individuals with disabilities, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 808

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 808, a bill to provide 
protections for certain sports medicine professionals who provide 
certain medical services in a secondary State.


                                 S. 819

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) was added as a cosponsor of S. 819, a bill to 
amend the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 to provide more effective 
remedies to victims of discrimination in the payment of wages on the 
basis of sex, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 872

  At the request of Mr. Schumer, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 872, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to make permanent the 
extension of the Medicare-dependent hospital (MDH) program and the 
increased payments under the Medicare low-volume hospital program.


                                 S. 946

  At the request of Mr. Flake, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 946, a bill to require 
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to hire additional Veterans Justice 
Outreach Specialists to provide treatment court services to justice-
involved veterans, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1050

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1050, a bill to award a 
Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the Chinese-American 
Veterans of World War II, in recognition of their dedicated service 
during World War II.


                                S. 1117

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1117, a bill to protect the 
investment choices of investors in the United States, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1146

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Carper) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1146, a bill to enhance the 
ability of the Office of the National Ombudsman to assist small 
businesses in meeting regulatory requirements and develop outreach 
initiatives to promote awareness of the services the Office of the 
National Ombudsman provides, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1270

  At the request of Ms. Hirono, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1270, a bill to 
direct the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy to 
carry out programs and activities to ensure that Federal science 
agencies and institutions of higher education receiving Federal 
research and development funding are fully engaging their entire talent 
pool, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1361

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1361, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to allow physician assistants, nurse 
practitioners, and clinical nurse specialists to supervise cardiac, 
intensive cardiac, and pulmonary rehabilitation programs.


                                S. 1591

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Cotton) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1591, a bill to impose 
sanctions with respect to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 1718

  At the request of Mr. Kennedy, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Ms. Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1718, a bill to authorize 
the minting of a coin in honor of the 75th anniversary of the end of 
World War II, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1742

  At the request of Ms. Stabenow, the names of the Senator from 
Michigan (Mr. Peters), the Senator from Illinois (Mr. Durbin) and the 
Senator from Illinois (Ms. Duckworth) were added as cosponsors of S. 
1742, a bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide 
for an option for any citizen or permanent resident of the United 
States age 55 to 64 to buy into Medicare.


                                S. 1774

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Mississippi 
(Mr. Wicker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1774, a bill to provide 
protections for workers with respect to their right to select or 
refrain from selecting representation by a labor organization.


                                S. 1782

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Young) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1782, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to modify the definition of full-time 
employee for purposes of the employer mandate in the Patient Protection 
and Affordable Care Act.


                                S. 1783

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1783, a bill to amend the 
National Voter Registration Act of 1993 to require each State to 
implement a process under which individuals who are 16 years of age may 
apply to register to vote in elections for Federal office in the State, 
to direct the Election Assistance Commission to make grants to States 
to increase the involvement of minors in public election activities, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 1786

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1786, a bill 
to amend the Fair Credit Reporting Act to enhance the accuracy of 
credit reporting and provide greater rights to consumers who dispute 
errors in their credit reports, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 426

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, his name was added as a cosponsor of 
amendment No. 426 intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize 
appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the 
Department of Defense, for military construction, and for defense 
activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel 
strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 510

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 510 intended 
to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal 
year 2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for 
military construction, and for defense activities of the Department of 
Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, 
and for other purposes.

[[Page S5745]]

  



                           AMENDMENT NO. 558

  At the request of Mr. Gardner, the name of the Senator from Iowa 
(Mrs. Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 558 intended to 
be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 607

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the names of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Booker) and the Senator from Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) were 
added as cosponsors of amendment No. 607 intended to be proposed to 
H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for 
military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 670

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the names of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson), the Senator from Missouri (Mrs. McCaskill) and the 
Senator from Minnesota (Mr. Franken) were added as cosponsors of 
amendment No. 670 intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize 
appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the 
Department of Defense, for military construction, and for defense 
activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel 
strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 714

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Daines) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 714 intended to 
be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 768

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 768 
intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for 
fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, 
for military construction, and for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 770

  At the request of Mr. Murphy, the name of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Lee) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 770 intended to be 
proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 
for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 803

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 
803 intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the Department of 
Defense, for military construction, and for defense activities of the 
Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for 
such fiscal year, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 819

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Texas 
(Mr. Cornyn) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 819 intended to 
be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 879

  At the request of Mr. Johnson, the name of the Senator from Texas 
(Mr. Cornyn) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 879 intended to 
be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 900

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 900 intended 
to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal 
year 2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for 
military construction, and for defense activities of the Department of 
Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, 
and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 909

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the names of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) and the Senator from Vermont (Mr. Sanders) were 
added as cosponsors of amendment No. 909 intended to be proposed to 
H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for 
military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 938

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from Arizona 
(Mr. Flake) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 938 intended to 
be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 939

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the names of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Portman) and the Senator from Virginia (Mr. Warner) were added as 
cosponsors of amendment No. 939 intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, 
to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military 
activities of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and 
for defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe 
military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other 
purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 942

  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 942 intended to 
be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 967

  At the request of Mr. Schumer, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 967 
intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for 
fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, 
for military construction, and for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 999

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 999 
intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for 
fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, 
for military construction, and for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1004

  At the request of Mr. Bennet, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 1004 intended 
to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal 
year 2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for 
military construction, and for defense activities of the Department of 
Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, 
and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1017

  At the request of Mr. Schumer, the name of the Senator from New York

[[Page S5746]]

(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 1017 
intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for 
fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, 
for military construction, and for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1027

  At the request of Mr. Strange, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Bennet) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 1027 intended to 
be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1032

  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the name of the Senator from Texas 
(Mr. Cornyn) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 1032 intended to 
be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1033

  At the request of Mr. Perdue, the names of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen), the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Cardin), the Senator 
from Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) and the Senator from Texas (Mr. Cornyn) 
were added as cosponsors of amendment No. 1033 intended to be proposed 
to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for 
military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1056

  At the request of Mr. Gardner, the name of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Menendez) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 1056 
intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for 
fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, 
for military construction, and for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and for other purposes.

                          ____________________



