

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 177 (Wednesday, November 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 177 (Wednesday, November 1, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H8301]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      ATLANTIC COAST YOUNG MARINES

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Florida (Mr. Rutherford) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. RUTHERFORD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to ask the United States 
House of Representatives to join me in recognizing the Atlantic Coast 
Young Marines and their hard work during Red Ribbon Week.
  The Florida regiment of Young Marines has performed more than 50,000 
service hours since last October, with more than 35,000 hours of 
community service dedicated to our veterans.
  As you can see, the Atlantic Coast Young Marines and their fellow 
Young Marines throughout Florida are very active in their local 
communities.
  Reduction of drug demand is a major issue of the Young Marine 
program, and Red Ribbon Week is an excellent opportunity to recognize 
the Atlantic Coast Young Marines' emphasis on this mission.
  Red Ribbon Week is the oldest drug prevention program in the Nation, 
reaching millions of Americans during the last week of October each 
year. By wearing red ribbons and participating in community antidrug 
events, Young Marines pledge to live a drug-free life and pay tribute 
to DEA Special Agent Enrique ``Kiki'' Camarena.
  Special Agent Camarena was a veteran of the DEA assigned to 
Guadalajara, Mexico, where he was on the trail of the country's biggest 
drug traffickers. Because he was so close to unlocking a billion-dollar 
drug pipeline, he was kidnapped and murdered by drug traffickers. His 
tragic death opened the eyes of many Americans to the dangerous illicit 
drug trade.
  Red Ribbon Week celebrates Agent Camarena's life and his vision for a 
drug-free America.
  Last week, the Atlantic Coast Young Marines honored his life through 
events that helped reduce the demand for drugs throughout northeast 
Florida.
  These young men and women who participate in this education and 
service program are known to be excellent leaders inside and outside of 
the classroom. The Atlantic Coast Young Marines are a shining example 
of our First Coast youth.
  They also serve our veterans in numerous ways, by cleaning yards, 
making hospital visits, and simply writing cards. Their dedication to 
community service and our veterans is a shining example of noble 
selflessness.
  Mr. Speaker, I applaud the Atlantic Coast Young Marines for their 
service to Florida's First Coast community.

                          ____________________



