

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 173 (Thursday, October 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 173 (Thursday, October 26, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6825-S6826]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                            OPIOID EPIDEMIC

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, on another matter, for families in 
Kentucky and across the Nation, the devastation of opioid abuse can be 
a constant and painful reality. Communities are forced to endure grief, 
worry, and loss. A recent report showed that my home State suffered 
more than 1,400 fatalities as a result of drug overdoses last year 
alone.
  Despite the troubling statistics, however, there are glimmers of 
hope. The Republican-led Senate has worked hard to pass important 
legislation like Jessie's Law, the 21st Century Cures Act, and the 
Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act. These measures are important 
steps that should lead to real progress. There are many other important 
efforts across the country as well. From coast to coast, we hear 
stories of men and women in recovery who are managing their addictions. 
We are heartened by these testimonies that

[[Page S6826]]

proper treatment offers real hope. They help remind everyone as to why 
we must continue to press forward. The task that remains is staggering, 
but we are committed.
  Later today, President Trump will help our country take another step 
forward. We expect that he will formally recognize the opioid epidemic 
for the public health emergency that it is. This announcement builds 
upon years of progress that Congress has made in responding to 
addiction with comprehensive action, including prevention, enforcement, 
and treatment.
  I commend the President for his continued commitment to this cause. 
When he visited us in the Senate earlier this week, he discussed the 
national epidemic and his administration's efforts to fight back. Along 
with my colleagues, I stand ready to work with him on future proposals 
to provide the necessary tools to protect our communities from this 
scourge.
  A single bill or program is never going to solve this crisis on its 
own. Only a sustained, committed effort can do that. I am proud of our 
efforts to combat opioid addiction already. I also know that we will 
continue to push forward with continued collaboration with many groups 
both in Washington and in States and communities all across our country 
so that, one day, we can finally say that our country has beaten this 
crisis once and for all.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The clerk will call the roll.
  The bill clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. Without objection, it is so 
ordered.

                          ____________________



