

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 132 (Thursday, August 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 132 (Thursday, August 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S4889]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I have 6 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


               Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

  Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources be authorized to meet during 
the session of the Senate in order to hold a hearing on Thursday, 
August 3, 2017 at 10 a.m. in Room 366 of the Dirksen Senate Office 
Building in Washington, DC.


               Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

  Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources be authorized to meet during 
the session of the Senate in order to hold a Business Meeting on 
Thursday, August 3, 2017, immediately after the 12 p.m. vote in S-216, 
the Capitol, in Washington, DC.


                          Committee on Finance

  Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Finance 
be authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, 
August 3, 2017, at 10 a.m., in 215 Dirksen Senate Office Building, to 
conduct a hearing to consider pending nominations.


                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Foreign Relations be 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, August 
3, 2017 at 10 a.m., to hold a business meeting.


                       Committee on the Judiciary

  Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on the 
Judiciary be authorized to meet during the session of the Senate, on 
August 3, 2017, at 10 a.m., in SD-226 of the Dirksen Senate Office 
Building, to conduct an executive business meeting.


           Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation

  Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation be authorized to hold a meeting 
during the session of the Senate on Thursday, August 3, 2017, at 9:45 
a.m. in room 253 of the Russell Senate Office Building.
  The Committee will hold a Subcommittee Hearing on ``Insurance Fraud 
in America: Current Issues Facing Industry and Consumers.''

                          ____________________



