

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 169 (Thursday, October 19, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 169 (Thursday, October 19, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6642-S6645]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 236

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from California 
(Ms. Harris) was added as a cosponsor of S. 236, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to reform taxation of alcoholic 
beverages.


                                 S. 301

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott) was added as a cosponsor of S. 301, a bill to 
amend the Public Health Service Act to prohibit governmental 
discrimination against providers of health services that are not 
involved in abortion.


                                 S. 479

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Young) was added as a cosponsor of S. 479, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to waive coinsurance under Medicare 
for colorectal cancer screening tests, regardless of whether 
therapeutic intervention is required during the screening.


                                 S. 497

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the names of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Young) and the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 497, a bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
Security Act to provide for Medicare coverage of certain lymphedema 
compression treatment items as items of durable medical equipment.


                                 S. 654

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 654, a bill to revise 
section 48 of title 18, United States Code, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1110

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from 
Maryland (Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1110, a bill to 
amend title 49, United States Code, to provide for private lactation 
areas in the terminals of large and medium hub airports, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1364

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from 
California

[[Page S6643]]

(Ms. Harris) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1364, a bill to establish 
within the Smithsonian Institution the National Museum of the American 
Latino, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1503

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the names of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) and the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 1503, a bill to require the Secretary of 
the Treasury to mint coins in recognition of the 60th anniversary of 
the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame.


                                S. 1580

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1580, a bill 
to enhance the transparency, improve the coordination, and intensify 
the impact of assistance to support access to primary and secondary 
education for displaced children and persons, including women and 
girls, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1589

  At the request of Mr. Roberts, the names of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) and the Senator from Iowa (Mrs. Ernst) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1589, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 and the Small Business Act to expand the availability of employee 
stock ownership plans in S corporations, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1632

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the names of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Roberts) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1632, a bill to establish an additional fund 
in the Treasury to meet existing statutory obligations to reimburse 
costs reasonably incurred as a result of the reorganization of 
broadcast television spectrum, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1690

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the names of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) and the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Brown) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1690, a bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
to provide greater support to students with dependents, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1706

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1706, a bill to prevent human health threats posed by the consumption 
of equines raised in the United States.
  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1706, 
supra.


                                S. 1719

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1719, a bill to eliminate 
duties on imports of recreational performance outerwear, to establish 
the Sustainable Textile and Apparel Research Fund, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1732

  At the request of Mr. Whitehouse, the name of the Senator from 
Michigan (Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1732, a bill to 
amend title XI of the Social Security Act to promote testing of 
incentive payments for behavioral health providers for adoption and use 
of certified electronic health record technology.


                                S. 1827

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1827, a bill to extend 
funding for the Children's Health Insurance Program, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1857

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the name of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1857, a bill to 
establish a compliance deadline of May 15, 2023, for Step 2 emissions 
standards for new residential wood heaters, new residential hydronic 
heaters, and forced-air furnaces.


                                S. 1916

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from 
Michigan (Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1916, a bill to 
prohibit the possession or transfer of certain firearm accessories, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 1945

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1945, a bill to regulate 
large capacity ammunition feeding devices.


                                S. 1960

  At the request of Mrs. McCaskill, the names of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen), the Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) and 
the Senator from Illinois (Mr. Durbin) were added as cosponsors of S. 
1960, a bill to repeal the amendments made to the Controlled Substances 
Act by the Ensuring Patient Access and Effective Drug Enforcement Act 
of 2016.


                                S. 1967

  At the request of Mr. Cotton, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Isakson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1967, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide additional exemptions to the 
individual mandate, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1970

  At the request of Mr. Bennet, the names of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto) and the Senator from California (Ms. Harris) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1970, a bill to establish a public health 
plan.


                             S. CON. RES. 7

  At the request of Mr. Roberts, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. Con. Res. 7, a concurrent 
resolution expressing the sense of Congress that tax-exempt fraternal 
benefit societies have historically provided and continue to provide 
critical benefits to the people and communities of the United States.


                              S. RES. 211

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 211, a resolution 
condemning the violence and persecution in Chechnya.


                              S. RES. 250

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 250, a 
resolution condemning horrific acts of violence against Burma's 
Rohingya population and calling on Aung San Suu Kyi to play an active 
role in ending this humanitarian tragedy.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1141

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the names of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal), the Senator from California (Ms. Harris) 
and the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) were added as cosponsors 
of amendment No. 1141 proposed to H. Con. Res. 71, a concurrent 
resolution establishing the congressional budget for the United States 
Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate 
budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1197

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 1197 
intended to be proposed to H. Con. Res. 71, a concurrent resolution 
establishing the congressional budget for the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2019 through 2027.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1228

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the names of the Senator from New 
Mexico (Mr. Heinrich) and the Senator from Washington (Mrs. Murray) 
were added as cosponsors of amendment No. 1228 proposed to H. Con. Res. 
71, a concurrent resolution establishing the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1247

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Menendez) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 1247 intended 
to be proposed to H. Con. Res. 71, a concurrent resolution establishing 
the congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal 
year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1248

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Menendez) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 1248 intended 
to be proposed to H. Con. Res. 71, a concurrent resolution establishing 
the congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal 
year 2018

[[Page S6644]]

and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 
2019 through 2027.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1271

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the names of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal), the Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr. 
Casey), the Senator from Vermont (Mr. Sanders), the Senator from Hawaii 
(Ms. Hirono) and the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) were added 
as cosponsors of amendment No. 1271 intended to be proposed to H. Con. 
Res. 71, a concurrent resolution establishing the congressional budget 
for the United States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth 
the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1273

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Burr) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 1273 
intended to be proposed to H. Con. Res. 71, a concurrent resolution 
establishing the congressional budget for the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2019 through 2027.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1301

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the names of the Senator from New 
Mexico (Mr. Udall), the Senator from Massachusetts (Mr. Markey), the 
Senator from Colorado (Mr. Bennet), the Senator from New Mexico (Mr. 
Heinrich), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar), the Senator from 
Washington (Mrs. Murray), the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. 
Blumenthal), the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Whitehouse), the 
Senator from Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) and the Senator from Maryland (Mr. 
Cardin) were added as cosponsors of amendment No. 1301 proposed to H. 
Con. Res. 71, a concurrent resolution establishing the congressional 
budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 2018 and 
setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 
through 2027.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1305

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from Utah 
(Mr. Lee) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 1305 intended to be 
proposed to H. Con. Res. 71, a concurrent resolution establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1315

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 1315 
intended to be proposed to H. Con. Res. 71, a concurrent resolution 
establishing the congressional budget for the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2019 through 2027.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1318

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, his name was added as a cosponsor 
of amendment No. 1318 intended to be proposed to H. Con. Res. 71, a 
concurrent resolution establishing the congressional budget for the 
United States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1319

  At the request of Mr. Reed, his name was added as a cosponsor of 
amendment No. 1319 intended to be proposed to H. Con. Res. 71, a 
concurrent resolution establishing the congressional budget for the 
United States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1321

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, his name was added as a cosponsor 
of amendment No. 1321 intended to be proposed to H. Con. Res. 71, a 
concurrent resolution establishing the congressional budget for the 
United States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1330

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, her name was added as a cosponsor 
of amendment No. 1330 intended to be proposed to H. Con. Res. 71, a 
concurrent resolution establishing the congressional budget for the 
United States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1332

  At the request of Ms. Stabenow, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren), the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Reed) 
and the Senator from California (Mrs. Feinstein) were added as 
cosponsors of amendment No. 1332 intended to be proposed to H. Con. 
Res. 71, a concurrent resolution establishing the congressional budget 
for the United States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth 
the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1333

  At the request of Ms. Stabenow, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 1333 
intended to be proposed to H. Con. Res. 71, a concurrent resolution 
establishing the congressional budget for the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2019 through 2027.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1354

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the names of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal), the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. Hirono), the 
Senator from Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin), the Senator from Maryland (Mr. 
Van Hollen), the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Menendez), the Senator 
from Ohio (Mr. Brown), the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Booker), the 
Senator from Oregon (Mr. Wyden) and the Senator from New York (Mrs. 
Gillibrand) were added as cosponsors of amendment No. 1354 intended to 
be proposed to H. Con. Res. 71, a concurrent resolution establishing 
the congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal 
year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1372

  At the request of Ms. Hirono, the name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 1372 
intended to be proposed to H. Con. Res. 71, a concurrent resolution 
establishing the congressional budget for the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2019 through 2027.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1373

  At the request of Ms. Hirono, the names of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Menendez) and the Senator from California (Mrs. Feinstein) 
were added as cosponsors of amendment No. 1373 intended to be proposed 
to H. Con. Res. 71, a concurrent resolution establishing the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2019 through 2027.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1378

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 1378 proposed to 
H. Con. Res. 71, a concurrent resolution establishing the congressional 
budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 2018 and 
setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 
through 2027.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1383

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the names of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Bennet) and the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Brown) were added as 
cosponsors of amendment No. 1383 intended to be proposed to H. Con. 
Res. 71, a concurrent resolution establishing the congressional budget 
for the United States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth 
the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1386

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 1386 
intended to be proposed to H. Con. Res. 71, a concurrent resolution 
establishing the congressional budget for the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2019 through 2027.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1387

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 
1387 intended to be proposed to H. Con. Res.

[[Page S6645]]

71, a concurrent resolution establishing the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1388

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the names of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Leahy), the Senator from Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) and the 
Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) were added as cosponsors of 
amendment No. 1388 intended to be proposed to H. Con. Res. 71, a 
concurrent resolution establishing the congressional budget for the 
United States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1391

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the names of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) and the Senator from West Virginia (Mr. Manchin) were 
added as cosponsors of amendment No. 1391 intended to be proposed to H. 
Con. Res. 71, a concurrent resolution establishing the congressional 
budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 2018 and 
setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 
through 2027.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1398

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 
1398 intended to be proposed to H. Con. Res. 71, a concurrent 
resolution establishing the congressional budget for the United States 
Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate 
budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027.

                          ____________________



