

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 167 (Tuesday, October 17, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 167 (Tuesday, October 17, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6448]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




   125TH ANNIVERSARY OF A.T. STILL UNIVERSITY-KIRKSVILLE COLLEGE OF 
                          OSTEOPATHIC MEDICINE

 Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize the 125th 
anniversary of A.T. Still University's Kirksville College of 
Osteopathic Medicine, KCOM. KCOM was established in 1892 as the first 
osteopathic medical school in the world and continues to be recognized 
for its success as a multidisciplinary healthcare educator.
  KCOM was founded by Dr. Andrew Taylor Still, whose novel methods of 
treating patients gave birth to the field of osteopathy. The school's 
first class included 21 students, five of whom were women. The school 
and medical practice quickly became a success, providing more than 
30,000 osteopathic treatments in 1895.
  According to the American Osteopathic Association, osteopathic 
medicine is one of the fastest growing specialties in U.S. healthcare. 
In fact, the number of doctors of osteopathic medicine has increased 
276 percent since 1986. Importantly, more than half of all active 
doctors of osteopathic practice in primary care specialties, and many 
of these choose to practice in community-based settings. Students 
trained by KCOM are uniquely situated to impact communities lacking 
medical resources, whether they be rural or urban.
  The focus of the KCOM administration and faculty on community 
outreach and underserved populations is to be commended. They partner 
with community health centers around the State to provide services to 
the most vulnerable individuals and instill a spirit of service in 
their students. Unique programs such as these that further education 
and support community health are of great benefit to the people of 
Missouri and serve as an example to others.
  Today KCOM continues to make strides in whole person healthcare and 
works to be a leader in health professions education. I extend my 
sincere thanks for all they do. Congratulations to A.T. Still 
University president Craig M. Phelps, A.T. Still University-Kirksville 
College of Osteopathic Medicine dean Margaret Wilson, faculty, and all 
former and current students on this important occasion.

                          ____________________



