

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 148 (Wednesday, September 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 148 (Wednesday, September 13, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H7334]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       TRIBUTE TO NADEAM ELSHAMI

  (Ms. PELOSI asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.)
  Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I proudly rise to pay tribute to a cherished 
member of my staff, my chief of staff, Nadeam Elshami.
  My office, my colleagues, indeed, the entire Democratic Caucus, has 
benefited from the sharp strategic insight, steady judgment, and 
exceptional character and integrity of Nadeam Elshami.
  Born in Nashville, spent some time in Egypt, earning his college 
degree in Indiana, Nadeam followed the love of his life, Stacy, to 
Washington, D.C.
  Here, 25 years ago, Nadeam found a job in the Senate mailroom. Now, 
he departs as a trusted senior adviser who holds one of the top 
positions on Capitol Hill, who holds the respect of Members on both 
sides of the aisle, on both sides of the Capitol, and, indeed, even 
down Pennsylvania Avenue.
  Nadeam has been an invaluable asset in every office he has served: 
for Senator Barbara Boxer; for Assistant Democratic Leader Dick Durbin; 
proudly, in our House, for Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky; and for me, in 
my office, where he has worked for 10 years.
  We are deeply grateful for Nadeam's wise counsel, his skill as a 
manager, and his grace under pressure in some of the most high-stakes 
matters to come before the Congress and the American people. He has 
played a vital role in improving the lives of America's working 
families. He has distinguished himself with the respect that Members 
have for his judgment, discretion, and ability.
  In conclusion, Nadeam's exceptional service entailed sacrifice, not 
only from him, but from his beautiful family. We are especially 
grateful to Nadeam for the patience, love, and support of his wife, 
Stacy, who is here with us today. Thank you, Stacy. I hope that all the 
spouses of our staff recognize that recognition for Stacy, which 
applies to them, as well. And his children, Jena, Noah, and Layla.
  Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to please join me in thanking my 
chief of staff, a man who has served the United States Congress with 
honor and distinction for more than 25 years: Nadeam Elshami.

                          ____________________



