

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 194 (Wednesday, November 29, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 194 (Wednesday, November 29, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9473]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 OPIOID CRISIS AND EFFORTS IN ARKANSAS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Arkansas (Mr. Hill) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. HILL. Mr. Speaker, this morning I rise to express my concern 
about the opioid epidemic that is plaguing our Nation, hurting our 
families, reducing productivity, and, really, one of the most shocking 
things that we have been experiencing across this land.
  I want to recognize some people in Arkansas who are making a real 
difference. In 2015, 392 Arkansans lost their lives to drug overdose. 
This crisis is terrifying and is killing our young adults and breaking 
up our families. They have lost acquaintances, friends, classmates, and 
family members to the grip of prescription drugs and illegal 
substances.
  In Arkansas, Drug Director Kirk Lane is facing this issue head-on, 
coordinating the State's drug and alcohol prevention, treatment, 
education, and law enforcement efforts.
  Curt Bradbury, who lost his son to substance abuse in 2010, has been 
out front and a tremendous ally in the fight to curtail the abuse of 
controlled substances. His contributions helped start the Arkansas 
Prescription Monitoring Program, a database that tracks the 
prescription of controlled substances across our State.
  Jerry Jones' tremendous advocacy efforts in Arkansas led to the 
passage of Arkansas Act 820, requiring prescribers to check the 
Prescription Drug Monitoring Program every time they prescribe a 
Schedule II and Schedule III opioid.
  I am proud to recognize these three individuals this morning for 
their positive efforts at tackling this devastating epidemic affecting 
our families.

                          ____________________



