

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 144 (Thursday, September 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 144 (Thursday, September 7, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H7093-H7094]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      AFGHANISTAN: EMPIRE STOPPER

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Tennessee (Mr. Duncan) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. DUNCAN of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, on September 4, 4 days ago, The 
New York Times International Edition carried a story, entitled, ``The 
Empire Stopper,'' which said foreign powers have tried to control 
Afghanistan since the 19th century. The story had a very interesting 
first paragraph:
  ``When the American author James A. Michener went to Afghanistan to 
research his work of historical fiction `Caravans,' it was 1955 and 
there were barely any roads in the country. Yet there were already 
Americans and Russians there jockeying for influence.''
  Continuing the Times' quote:
  ``Later, the book's Afghan protagonist would tell an American 
diplomat that one day both America and Russia would invade Afghanistan 
and that both would come to regret it.''
  Michener wrote that 62 years ago. Since then, Afghanistan has been 
described many times as the ``Graveyard of Empires.''
  This 17-year war in Afghanistan has always been more about money than 
anything else, and it should have been ended long ago. Many people 
wonder why we keep sending so many soldiers and military contractors to 
Iraq and Afghanistan. Well, it has always been about money, increased 
appropriations for the Defense Department, and huge profits for the 
contractors who hire retired admirals and generals.
  There have been so many examples of waste, fraud, and abuse in these 
Middle East wars that it is sickening. One recent example was reported 
this way by Newsweek:
  ``U.S.-based security firm Sallyport Global has been accused by two 
former internal investigators of smuggling alcohol, stealing, keeping 
two different account ledgers, and even human trafficking of 
prostitutes while executing an almost $700 million contract to protect 
Balad Air Base in Iraq, The Associated Press reported Wednesday.''
  Military bases should be protected by military personnel, not highly 
paid contractors, but most Members of Congress are afraid to criticize 
anything the Defense Department does for fear of someone saying they 
are not ``supporting the troops.''
  We now have over 11,000 troops in Afghanistan and probably that many 
or more contractors in addition to no telling how many Federal civilian 
employees. Then we are also paying more than

[[Page H7094]]

330,000 Afghan military and police personnel.
  The international community is now providing 60 percent of the Afghan 
GDP, and almost all of these so-called peacekeeping--really, U.N. 
wars--the U.S. taxpayers are paying over 90 percent of the cost.
  When the so-called coalition bombs go astray killing civilians and 
women and children, they are really seen by the locals as being U.S. 
bombs, creating even more hatred and resentment for our country.
  We have now had almost 2,500 young American soldiers killed in 
Afghanistan and 20,000 wounded, many maimed for life. We have spent $1 
trillion directly on this war and even more indirectly.
  Mr. Speaker, the American people don't want forever, permanent wars. 
This Afghanistan folly has lasted four times longer than World War II. 
We should have come home a long time ago.

                          ____________________



