

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 158 (Tuesday, October 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 158 (Tuesday, October 3, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H7681]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    BE A VOICE FOR UNBORN AMERICANS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Florida (Mr. Dunn) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. DUNN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 36, the Pain-
Capable Unborn Child Protection Act.
  As a father of three, a grandfather of three, and as a man of faith, 
I firmly believe that life begins at conception. As a surgeon and a 
scientist, I know that unborn children feel pain at 20 weeks, at the 
very latest at 20 weeks.
  Scientific studies have found that a baby's first sensory receptors 
for pain are developed in the first 7 weeks. By 20 weeks, an unborn 
baby is so developed that they can hear music and respond to sounds, 
but, most importantly, a substantial body of medical evidence shows 
that he or she can feel and respond to pain.
  Let there be no mistake: late-term abortion practices are gruesome 
and painful. These babies are dismembered limb from limb, yet the 
United States is one of only seven nations in the world that allows for 
elective late-term abortions. We are joining nations like North Korea 
and China that allow for elective late-term abortions. It is shocking 
to the conscience.
  By passing the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act and banning 
late-term abortions after 20 weeks, we stand up to protect the innocent 
and the defenseless.
  The Psalm says: ``Children are a gift from the Lord.'' If we here 
today do not protect this gift, who will? If we do not shield unborn 
Americans from a death so painful and unimaginable, who will?
  The responsibility falls to us. Let us embrace this solemn duty.
  I spent my medical career doing everything I could to save the lives 
of the patients in my care. Now, as a legislator, I can help save 
people with my vote.
  I invite the entire House to be a voice for unborn Americans and pass 
the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act.

                          ____________________



