

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 171 (Tuesday, October 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 171 (Tuesday, October 24, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6765-S6766]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        TRIBUTE TO RUSTY TALBOT

 Ms. HASSAN. Mr. President, this month, I am proud to recognize 
Rusty Talbot, of Sugar Hill, NH, as our Granite Stater of the Month for 
his dedication to supporting our vibrant North Country communities.
  As the founder and owner of the North Country Climbing Center, Rusty 
and his wife have built a small business that has been described as an 
``inclusive community,'' where he strives to create a welcoming 
environment for both experienced climbers and beginners. He has worked 
diligently to engage with various organizations throughout the 
community, like the Adaptive Sports Partners of the North Country, 
which empowers individuals who experience disabilities to experience 
rock climbing.
  Rusty is also involved with local business and entrepreneurship 
groups, including the Franconia Notch Regional Chamber of Commerce, the 
North of the Notch Young Professionals Network, the Littleton Rotary 
Club, and the Bethlehem Colonial Theatre. His commitment to supporting 
the local economy and other small businesses, in addition to his own 
successful climbing center, earned him Stay Work Play's Young 
Professional of the Year award. As New Hampshire continues to work to 
attract young people, his nominator noted that Rusty has ``reminded us 
why we chose to live and play in northern New Hampshire.''
  In addition to running his business, Rusty also dedicates his time to 
the Sugar Hill Fire Department, where he is a volunteer firefighter, 
and the Pemigewasset Valley Search and Rescue Team, for which he is a 
lieutenant. Earlier this year, Rusty participated in the successful 
search and rescue effort for a hiker who had been missing in the White 
Mountain National Forest for days before he was found. In describing 
his motivation for volunteering for these critical public safety 
entities, Rusty says, ``In this community, people help each other. Not 
because it's required or because it's our job to do so, but because we 
are all in this together.'' That pervasive sense of selflessness and 
community solidarity is what makes the Granite State unique.
  Throughout New Hampshire, citizens just like Rusty give back to their 
community, look out for their neighbors, and do what they can to help 
make our beautiful State a stronger place so we can all grow and thrive 
together. Rusty embodies the all-hands-on-deck spirit that we all 
strive to fulfill, and I am honored to recognize him as our Granite 
Stater of the Month for October.

[[Page S6766]]

  

                          ____________________



