

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 143 (Wednesday, September 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 143 (Wednesday, September 6, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H6695-H7072]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




     DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, ENVIRONMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES 
                        APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2018


                             General Leave

  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all 
Members be given 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend 
their remarks and include extraneous material in the consideration of 
H.R. 3354, and that I may include tabular material on the same.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from New Jersey?
  There was no objection.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to House Resolution 500 and rule 
XVIII, the Chair declares the House in the Committee of the Whole House 
on the state of the Union for the consideration of the bill, H.R. 3354.
  The Chair appoints the gentleman from New York (Mr. Collins) to 
preside over the Committee of the Whole.

                              {time}  1625


                     In the Committee of the Whole

  Accordingly, the House resolved itself into the Committee of the 
Whole House on the state of the Union for the consideration of the bill 
(H.R. 3354) making appropriations for the Department of the Interior, 
environment, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending September 
30, 2018, and for other purposes, with Mr. Collins of New York in the 
chair.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The CHAIR. Pursuant to the rule, the bill is considered read the 
first time.
  The gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Frelinghuysen) and the gentlewoman 
from New York (Mrs. Lowey) each will control 1 hour.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from New Jersey.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chair, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Chair, I rise today to present H.R. 3354, the Make America Secure 
and Prosperous Appropriations Act. This legislation moves Congress one 
step closer to completing its critical work on our fiscal year 2018 
appropriations bills ahead of the end of the fiscal year on September 
30.
  Our bill respects the American people, their priorities for our 
Nation, and their hard-earned tax dollars, and it will help move our 
great country forward to a more stable and prosperous future.
  This funding, totaling $1.2 trillion, supports important domestic and 
international programs that keep our people safe and help our economy 
grow and thrive, protects us from terrorists and those who want to do 
us harm, and assures that America has a critical role across the globe 
both militarily and diplomatically.
  Most importantly, this bill continues the work started with the 
national security funding package that passed the House in July, the 
Make America Secure Appropriations Act, and it prioritizes the safety 
of the American people, targeting funding towards critical law 
enforcement programs, securing our borders and our cyber networks, 
fighting terrorism, combating opioid abuse, and stemming the flow of 
illegal drugs and goods.
  Other funds are directed to programs that provide the greatest 
national benefit, including those that keep our food and drug supplies 
safe, that support public health preparedness, fight devastating 
wildfires, invest in critical infrastructure, and otherwise protect and 
support our economy and economic freedom.
  All of these investments are made responsibly. In each of our bills 
within this package, we have found savings, gotten rid of waste, fraud, 
and duplication, and increased oversight to ensure that no taxpayer 
dollar is misspent, but we still have more work to do. This is the next 
step in the process, but it is not the end.
  We must also address new needs arising from terrible flooding and 
damage

[[Page H6696]]

inflicted by Hurricane Harvey, which is affecting hundreds of thousands 
of people across Texas and Louisiana, as well as continue all 
government operations until the final appropriations package can be 
conferenced with the Senate and signed into law.

                              {time}  1630

  This legislation today represents the House priorities and shows the 
American people that this Chamber is moving forward, governing 
effectively, and getting things done here in Washington.
  Before I close, I would like to thank the members of the 
Appropriations Committee for their hard work over the past few months, 
and the staff that allows us to consider this bill today, especially 
the 12 chairs of the subcommittees. The committee drafted, considered, 
and marked up all 12 appropriations bills in under 2 months, a record-
breaking pace, and as a result, we have a fine package of solid bills 
on the floor this afternoon.
  I particularly would like to thank the chairs and ranking members of 
the committee of the bills we are considering today, as well as the 
ranking member of the full committee, Mrs. Lowey, for her partnership 
and friendship throughout this process. I would also like to extend my 
personal thanks to our staff on both sides of the aisle for their 
efforts on these bills.
  This package is a product not only of the committee's work, but also 
of the contribution of all Members of this body. While drafting these 
bills that compose this package, we took Members' submissions very 
seriously, creating a more representative bill that reflects the will 
of the American people.
  In July, the House took the first responsible step of providing 
funding for critical national security priorities. With this bill, we 
complete our work on all 12 of our appropriations bills for the fiscal 
year.
  This morning, the House came together on an overwhelmingly bipartisan 
basis to pass desperately needed emergency funding for the victims in 
Texas and Louisiana whose lives were destroyed by Hurricane Harvey. 
Funding these important responsibilities of the Federal Government is 
our constitutional duty to the people we serve.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on this bill, and 
I reserve the balance of my time.

[[Page H6697]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.001



[[Page H6698]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.002



[[Page H6699]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.003



[[Page H6700]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.004



[[Page H6701]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.005



[[Page H6702]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.006



[[Page H6703]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.007



[[Page H6704]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.008



[[Page H6705]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.009



[[Page H6706]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.010



[[Page H6707]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.011



[[Page H6708]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.012



[[Page H6709]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.013



[[Page H6710]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.014



[[Page H6711]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.015



[[Page H6712]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.016



[[Page H6713]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.017



[[Page H6714]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.018



[[Page H6715]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.019



[[Page H6716]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.020



[[Page H6717]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.021



[[Page H6718]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.022



[[Page H6719]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.023



[[Page H6720]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.024



[[Page H6721]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.025



[[Page H6722]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.026



[[Page H6723]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.027



[[Page H6724]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.028



[[Page H6725]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.029



[[Page H6726]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.030



[[Page H6727]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.031



[[Page H6728]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.032



[[Page H6729]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.033



[[Page H6730]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.034



[[Page H6731]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.035



[[Page H6732]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.036



[[Page H6733]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.037



[[Page H6734]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.038



[[Page H6735]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.039



[[Page H6736]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.040



[[Page H6737]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.041



[[Page H6738]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.042



[[Page H6739]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.043



[[Page H6740]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.044



[[Page H6741]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.045



[[Page H6742]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.046



[[Page H6743]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.047



[[Page H6744]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.048



[[Page H6745]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.049



[[Page H6746]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.050



[[Page H6747]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.051



[[Page H6748]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.052



[[Page H6749]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.053



[[Page H6750]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.054



[[Page H6751]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.055



[[Page H6752]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.056



[[Page H6753]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.057



[[Page H6754]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.058



[[Page H6755]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.059



[[Page H6756]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.060



[[Page H6757]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.061



[[Page H6758]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.062



[[Page H6759]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.063



[[Page H6760]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.064



[[Page H6761]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.065



[[Page H6762]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.066



[[Page H6763]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.067



[[Page H6764]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.068



[[Page H6765]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.069



[[Page H6766]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.070



[[Page H6767]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.071



[[Page H6768]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.072



[[Page H6769]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.073



[[Page H6770]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.074



[[Page H6771]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.075



[[Page H6772]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.076



[[Page H6773]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.077



[[Page H6774]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.078



[[Page H6775]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.079



[[Page H6776]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.080



[[Page H6777]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.081



[[Page H6778]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.082



[[Page H6779]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.083



[[Page H6780]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.084



[[Page H6781]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.085



[[Page H6782]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.086



[[Page H6783]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.087



[[Page H6784]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.088



[[Page H6785]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.089



[[Page H6786]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.090



[[Page H6787]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.091



[[Page H6788]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.092



[[Page H6789]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.093



[[Page H6790]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.094



[[Page H6791]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.095



[[Page H6792]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.096



[[Page H6793]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.097



[[Page H6794]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.098



[[Page H6795]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.099



[[Page H6796]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.100



[[Page H6797]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.101



[[Page H6798]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.102



[[Page H6799]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.103



[[Page H6800]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.104



[[Page H6801]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.105



[[Page H6802]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.106



[[Page H6803]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.107



[[Page H6804]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.108



[[Page H6805]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.109



[[Page H6806]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.110



[[Page H6807]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.111



[[Page H6808]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.112



[[Page H6809]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.113



[[Page H6810]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.114



[[Page H6811]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.115



[[Page H6812]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.116



[[Page H6813]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.117



[[Page H6814]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.118



[[Page H6815]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.119



[[Page H6816]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.120



[[Page H6817]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.121



[[Page H6818]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.122



[[Page H6819]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.123



[[Page H6820]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.124



[[Page H6821]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.125



[[Page H6822]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.126



[[Page H6823]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.127



[[Page H6824]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.128



[[Page H6825]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.129



[[Page H6826]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.130



[[Page H6827]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.131



[[Page H6828]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.132



[[Page H6829]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.133



[[Page H6830]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.134



[[Page H6831]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.135



[[Page H6832]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.136



[[Page H6833]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.137



[[Page H6834]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.138



[[Page H6835]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH06SE17.139



[[Page H6836]]

  

  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself 8 minutes.
  Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong opposition to this bill, which would 
turn back the clock on American excellence, following President Trump's 
lead on divesting from education, health, foreign assistance, science, 
and infrastructure.
  The process for this bill has been outrageous, and this debate, 
frankly, is an utter waste of time. Just hours ago, Congressional 
leadership and the President agreed to pass a package including 
Hurricane Harvey assistance as well as a debt limit extension and a 
continuing resolution to keep government running until December 15. We 
should be working to pass that measure now so that we can work toward a 
bipartisan budget agreement instead of wasting days on a bill that 
undercuts economic growth and priorities on which families rely, and is 
so hyperpartisan it will never earn the Democratic support needed to be 
enacted.
  Breaking from longstanding tradition that enables Members to advance 
amendments in an open process, the Rules Committee required amendments 
be submitted 12 days ago during the District work period and reported a 
restrictive, structured rule for relatively few of them so far.
  The majority denied consideration of many amendments that would 
address timely, high-profile challenges, some of which cut to the core 
of our democracy, and would have been allowed under an open rule. In 
one of the most egregious examples, the majority blocked an amendment 
to provide safeguards to ensure the integrity of government reports on 
violent domestic extremism, the likes of which erupted in 
Charlottesville in recent weeks, resulting in the death of a young 
woman exercising her right to freedom of speech.
  Not only were amendments to address the President's revocation of 
DACA deemed out of order, in an affront to the Appropriations Committee 
and to this institution, the majority removed a bipartisan amendment 
passed in committee that would have allowed DREAMers to work for the 
Federal Government.
  My friends, we have a responsibility to pass the DREAM Act now. It is 
absurd that, after years of receiving bipartisan majority support, 
Republican leadership has refused to allow a vote.
  The Rules Committee should make in order amendments to protect the 
integrity of our elections and the independence of the special 
counsel's Russia investigation.
  This bill also fails on the merits. The nondefense bills are below 
sequestration levels set in law, slashing funding for teacher training, 
apprenticeship grants to help young adults train for good jobs, law 
enforcement grants that help keep our communities safe, environmental 
protections that ensure we drink clean water, breathe clean air, 
highway and transit grants that improve the quality of life for our 
constituents, and a number of scientific and research programs that are 
important for global competitiveness.
  This bill is littered with riders with deep-rooted opposition, like 
cutting funding for Planned Parenthood. If the majority is serious 
about governing, loading must-pass spending bills with these policy 
riders is a surefire way to fail.
  Turning to the State and Foreign Operations division of the bill, I 
want to thank Steve Marchese, Erin Kolodjeski, and Matt Washington with 
the subcommittee; Liz Leibowitz and Dean Fischer from my office; Craig 
Higgins, Susan Adams, Clelia Alvarado, David Bortnick, Winnie Chang, 
Lacy Kilraine, Megan O'Donnell, and Alex Pinson with the majority.
  Diplomacy and development efforts are critical to protecting our 
country's national security and building stronger and more stable 
communities around the world. That is why cuts in this division are so 
deeply troubling.
  As demonstrated through both the President's unworkable request and 
the subcommittee's unsustainable allocation, the majority does not 
fully embrace the vital role diplomatic and development activities add 
to our national security and economic interests abroad.
  On the positive side, the bill sustains our bipartisan and unwavering 
support for our close ally and partner Israel, as well as Jordan. And I 
do appreciate Chairman Rogers protecting resources for basic education, 
water, sanitation, democracy, and some vital women's programs, which 
provide communities the foundations for inclusive economic growth and 
poverty reduction.
  While he rejected the most extreme proposals in the President's 
budget, the allocation is insufficient to respond to global challenges. 
We must reverse dangerous and shortsighted cuts for programs such as 
multilateral cooperation, international family planning, and climate 
change, as well as the expansion of the Global Gag Rule to all global 
health programs, and the prohibition on U.S. contributions to UNFPA.
  The Rules Committee should have made in order amendments I submitted 
to strike the expansion of the Global Gag Rule and the ban on funding 
for the United Nations Population Fund, and to restore essential 
funding for international development and diplomacy.
  Despite the administration's professed hope that other nations will 
fill the gaps created by cuts in this bill, we are at risk of that void 
being filled by those who oppose our values and interests, leaving the 
world far different from what we want for our children and 
grandchildren.
  It is time for the majority to set aside its most extreme proposals, 
including the border wall and interior immigration enforcement, and 
work with Democrats to write bipartisan legislation that could actually 
be enacted.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge a ``no'' vote, and I reserve the balance of my 
time.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chairman, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman 
from Kentucky (Mr. Rogers), the chairman of the State and Foreign 
Operations Subcommittee, my predecessor as full chairman.
  Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in strong support 
of the fiscal year 2018 appropriations measure before us today. The 
committee, as the chairman said, has worked at a historic pace to 
produce a bill that reflects the priorities of the American people. 
Chairman Frelinghuysen should be recognized for his leadership in 
bringing this legislation through committee and before the House in 
record time.

  While the entirety of the package should be supported, I want to 
highlight, Mr. Chairman, the funding provided for the Department of 
State and Foreign Operations. This portion of the bill reduces 
international diplomatic and development programs by $10 billion, a 17 
percent reduction from fiscal year '17. In a tough budget environment, 
the bill strikes a delicate balance between fiscal responsibility and 
support for continued U.S. leadership and foreign aid.
  First and foremost, over $6 billion is allocated for embassy 
security, which will enable the State Department to safeguard American 
diplomatic facilities overseas, in line with the recommendations of the 
Benghazi Accountability Review Board.
  Second, the bill contains $8.4 billion for security assistance to 
support key U.S. allies and partners. The U.S.-Israel Memorandum of 
Understanding is fully funded at $3.1 billion. The bill also maintains 
foreign military financing for Egypt, Jordan, Tunisia; and it increases 
security assistance for Ukraine, and provides extra support for other 
countries facing Russian aggression.
  In our own hemisphere, the bill will help counter transnational 
criminal organizations and the flow of illegal drugs by supporting our 
partnerships with Colombia, Central America, and Mexico.
  Third, the bill promotes American values around the world by 
maintaining funding for key democracy programs.
  Fourth, the bill continues our country's strong tradition of helping 
the most vulnerable, providing $8.3 billion for global health programs 
and over $5.9 billion for humanitarian assistance. At the same time, 
the bill protects and preserves life by embracing an expanded Mexico 
City policy, prohibiting funding for the U.N. Population Fund, and 
continuing all pro-life riders carried in prior House bills.
  Finally, at a time when we must remain focused on balancing Federal 
spending, this bill eliminates many programs, aims to improve oversight

[[Page H6837]]

and management, and makes our government more accountable. No funds are 
provided for President Obama's Global Climate Change Initiative. 
Funding for the U.N. is reduced by $900 million, and international 
banks and financial institutions are cut by over $800 million.
  The CHAIR. The time of the gentleman has expired.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chairman, I yield an additional 30 seconds to 
the gentleman.
  Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky. Mr. Chairman, this legislation advances both 
our national security and economic interests. I urge support for the 
bill.

                              {time}  1645

  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from New 
York (Mr. Serrano), the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Commerce, 
Justice, Science, and Related Agencies.
  Mr. SERRANO. Mr. Chairman, I thank Ranking Member Lowey.
  I wish we could be here under other circumstances. The process to 
consider the CJS portion of this bill as part of an omnibus package is 
not in keeping with how the appropriations process should work. Each 
bill should be given individual consideration under an open rule.
  Some on the other side are cheering this floor process, which is 
ironic given their years of opposition to such a lumped-together 
package.
  I am not sure what has changed their minds today, and at this point 
we don't even know if Members will be allowed to offer amendments that 
are necessary to improve half of the bill and rein in this out-of-
control administration because the Rules Committee has not yet provided 
us with that information.
  I also wish that the substance of what we are considering this week 
were better. As the ranking member of the CJS Subcommittee, I can say 
that the CJS portion of this bill received an inadequate allocation. 
After scorekeeping adjustments, the bill includes an approximately 1 
percent cut below fiscal year 2017. This is far below the level needed 
to adequately fund the programs in this bill which are crucial to 
economic development, scientific innovation, and protecting our 
Nation's cherished constitutional values.
  Before we touch upon these serious problems, let me mention some 
areas where both sides agree. I do want to commend Chairman Culberson 
for rejecting several of the worst ideas in the Trump administration's 
budget. This includes rebuffing proposals that would have reduced 
research funding at the National Science Foundation and eliminated the 
Minority Business Development Agency. This bill also rejects cuts to 
educational efforts in the NSF, NASA, and a proposed cut for the FBI.
  Unfortunately, far too many of the President's terrible proposals are 
given credence by this legislation. The Legal Services Corporation, the 
Manufacturing Extension Partnership Program, and the Economic 
Development Administration all absorb significant cuts below the 
current funding level. The Census Bureau is greatly underfunded and 
will be unable to complete the important and necessary work that must 
be done now to prepare for the 2020 Census.
  A number of other programs are shortchanged, including climate change 
research programs at NSF and NOAA, several National Weather Service 
initiatives, and a number of DOJ grant programs, like the COPS Hiring 
Program and several police reform grant programs. Democrats and 
Republicans, alike, support most, if not all, of these programs, but we 
simply cannot fix these problems under this allocation.
  I am also troubled that this bill allows many of the administration's 
most disturbing priorities and initiatives related to immigration and 
civil rights to move forward without the necessary congressional 
oversight. In the wake of Charlottesville and Tuesday's DACA decision, 
there are many in this country who are justifiably questioning the 
President's commitment to tolerance, fairness, and inclusiveness.
  The Trump administration's budget request for the Department of 
Justice raises those questions as well. A proposal to harm immigrants 
by increasing criminal enforcement is funded in this bill. There is no 
attempt to limit the Department's actions to undermine affirmative 
action, support voter restriction that disproportionally hurts minority 
populations, and ignore LGBT protections. Many of these ideas have long 
been rejected by the American people, but the President and the 
Attorney General continue to give them credibility.
  Democrats and Republicans have offered amendments to limit the reach 
of these drastic policy changes, but at this point, it is unclear 
whether any of these amendments will be made in order. I hope we will 
have a serious opportunity to make changes to this bill, but that seems 
unlikely.
  In its current form, I cannot support this portion of the bill or the 
bill as a whole.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chairman, I am pleased to yield 3 minutes to 
the gentleman from Alabama (Mr. Aderholt), chairman of the Agriculture 
Subcommittee on Appropriations.
  Mr. ADERHOLT. Mr. Chairman, it is my distinct honor to bring the 
fiscal year 2018 Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
Administration, and Related Agencies bill before you today as part of 
the Make America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act.
  I do want to thank Chairman Frelinghuysen for his commitment to the 
annual appropriations process. Under his steadfast leadership, the 
House is scheduled to vote on all 12 appropriations bills, which is an 
extraordinary achievement.
  I would also like to thank Ranking Member Lowey and Ranking Member 
Bishop for their cooperative spirit. Mr. Bishop is the new ranking 
member for the Agriculture Subcommittee, and I have enjoyed working 
with him over the past several months as we have moved forward to try 
to help rural America and rural communities.
  The Agriculture Appropriations bill responsibly targets funds to 
national programs that provide the most benefit to the American people 
and to the United States economy. The bill received bipartisan support 
throughout the process, even though much of the funding and policies 
reflect a conservative policy.
  The overall total for both discretionary and mandatory spending in 
the bill equals $144.9 billion. That is $4.1 billion above the 
President's request and $8.6 billion below the FY17 enacted level. The 
bill includes $20 billion in discretionary budget authority, which is 
$1.1 billion below the FY17 enacted level when adjusting for the 
Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The mandatory funds in this bill 
support USDA's farm production, conservation, crop insurance, and 
nutrition programs.
  I would like to thank all the Members who have submitted requests and 
gave input as we have moved forward and crafted this legislation. 
Knowing what programs Members are interested in has helped us direct 
funding to support rural communities across the country and also combat 
animal and plant pests and disease threats, promote U.S. agricultural 
exports, support food safety and medical product safety, provide U.S. 
commodities to those in need overseas, and address the critical needs 
of research.

  We protected our most vulnerable populations in this bill by 
providing funding for all of USDA's nutrition programs at levels that 
ensure all eligible participants will receive the nutrition assistance 
that they need. We made sure that the farm loan programs will meet 
current estimates of demand during the current economic downturn in 
several areas of the farm economy.
  Furthermore, the bill provides $5.2 billion to the Food and Drug 
Administration, including the preservation of nearly $2.8 billion in 
discretionary resources to assist the FDA in protecting and promoting 
public health. The bill continues to support the food safety activities 
associated with the Food Safety Modernization Act and provides $60 
million in new funds to the 21st Century Cures Act.
  In closing, I would like to especially thank the staff on the 
Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee, my personal staff, the 
minority staff, and Mr. Bishop's staff.
  The CHAIR. The time of the gentleman has expired.

[[Page H6838]]

  

  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chair, I yield an additional 15 seconds to the 
gentleman to thank the staff.
  Mr. ADERHOLT. Mr. Chair, I appreciate, again, the bipartisan 
cooperation that went into crafting this bill. It is very important.
  Mr. Chair, I would ask my colleagues to support this legislation.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from Ohio 
(Ms. Kaptur), who is the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Energy 
and Water Development, and Related Agencies.
  Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chair, I want to thank Ranking Member Lowey for 
yielding me time. Thank you to all members of the committee for the 
long hours you have dedicated to these bills, certainly our chairman, 
Rodney Frelinghuysen. The artificially low allocations you were given 
have resulted in a package that I cannot support, but I want to note 
your efforts to find compromise where it was possible.
  Though the House passed the Energy and Water bill as part of July's 
Christmas tree minibus, I am back down here today because the 
Republican majority has harmed the Department of Energy's funding for 
the Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Loan Program, or, as 
they call it, the ATVM. It has been gutted as a pay-for to cover 
another shortsighted Republican cut to a Federal Emergency Management 
program.
  Today's rule allowed this boneheaded Republican action, plotted just 
weeks ago before Mother Nature's catastrophic fury hit Texas with 
Hurricane Harvey. It doesn't look good to the American people when the 
majority cuts programs that are desperately needed. It doesn't serve 
America's future if money is pulled from developing engine technologies 
to increase fuel economy of cars, expand domestic manufacturing, and 
create good-paying American jobs.
  Unless you live under a rock, you know these initiatives are both 
popular and effective and necessary: 61 percent of Republicans in Ohio 
support the requirement of getting to an average of 40 miles per gallon 
in new cars by 2025, with 73 percent of the public, overall, supporting 
that.
  The Department of Energy's Advanced Technology Vehicle program 
supported Ford's development of the EcoBoost engine, which is built in 
Ohio at Brook Park, in my own district. Advanced Vehicle Research 
supported the development of all-electric vehicles, from Nissan's Leaf 
in Tennessee to Tesla's Model S in California. It supports America's 
competitiveness in a fiercely competitive and tough global marketplace 
that is, many times, not on the level.
  We should support innovation and collaboration, not eliminate job-
creating programs. I will fight to preserve this program in the final 
spending package.
  The CHAIR. The time of the gentlewoman has expired.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chair, I yield an additional 1 minute to the 
gentlewoman.
  Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chair, thus, I encourage all my colleagues to oppose 
this sort of backward maneuver and oppose the final bill.
  In closing, I would like to say, and to acknowledge publicly, a very 
big thank you and congratulations to Taunja Berquam on her upcoming 
retirement from Congress. I know she will have a bright future ahead.
  After her distinguished and exemplary service with the Army Corps of 
Engineers, including in Iraq, she dedicated over a decade of her 
brilliant life and mind to the important task of managing the 
Appropriation's Energy and Water Development, and Related Agencies 
Subcommittee accounts during my tenure as ranking member, as well as 
for Representative Peter Visclosky before me.

  Taunja's high-minded commitment to democratic principles is 
unyielding. Our committee is losing a trusted and honorable adviser. 
Her expertise and no-nonsense approach served our members, the staff, 
and the American people extraordinarily well.
  Taunja, you will be missed, and you can leave knowing that you made a 
positive difference for America's future in nuclear readiness, in our 
energy future security, and in vital Army Corps development from coast 
to coast. We thank you.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chairman, let me associate myself with the 
remarks of Ms. Kaptur.
  Taunja, thank you for your service to our Nation, your help to both 
Republicans and Democrats, and to the Nation. We are indebted to you. 
Good luck to you.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from Texas (Mr. 
Culberson), the chairman of the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related 
Agencies Subcommittee, who spoke so eloquently this morning.
  Mr. CULBERSON. Mr. Chairman, first of all, I want to thank everyone 
here in the House for their kind words and their prayers and their 
support this morning for the Hurricane Harvey relief bill. I want to 
thank you in particular, Chairman Frelinghuysen, for your hard work, 
along with the Speaker, to get that legislation passed through the 
House in record time to get relief to the people of Texas and Lousiana, 
and know that we are praying for the people of Puerto Rico and Florida 
who are facing this terrible hurricane right now.
  Today, I am pleased to present the fiscal year 2018 Commerce, 
Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill.
  I want to particularly thank my ranking member, Jose Serrano, who has 
been a good partner to work with and for his support when it comes to 
science, and NASA has deeply appreciated it. His input has improved the 
bill significantly.
  I am also very grateful to Chairman Frelinghuysen and Ranking Member 
Lowey for their help in writing this bill, and the superb staff work on 
both sides of the aisle in putting it together.

                              {time}  1700

  This Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies bill provides 
$54 billion in discretionary funding this year, which is $2.6 billion 
below fiscal year 2017.
  We have done our best to be good stewards of our constituents' hard-
earned and very precious tax dollars. We fund critical programs in this 
bill while cutting or freezing lower priority programs.
  One of the main priorities of the Commerce, Justice, Science, and 
Related Agencies bill is to fund both Federal and local law enforcement 
agencies. Our bill provides the FBI with $8.8 billion, which is a $92 
million increase over the budget request.
  The FBI has done a superb job in protecting this Nation against 
espionage, cybercrime, terrorism, and hate crimes. The threats against 
our security are real and evolving. We have done our best in this bill 
to make sure that the FBI has the resources it needs to continue to 
protect this great Nation.
  The Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies bill also 
provides increases across all other Federal law enforcement agencies, 
Mr. Chairman, to enhance their capabilities, to combat illegal 
immigration, violent crime, and go after human and opioid traffickers. 
Unfortunately, Houston, Texas, is a center of human trafficking. And 
our legislation makes sure that all Federal agencies have the resources 
they need to combat these modern human slavers.
  We have provided funding for 65 new immigration judge teams to reduce 
the 500,000 immigration case backlog; we have got a $22 million 
increase in here, Mr. Chairman, for U.S. attorneys, an $88 million 
increase for U.S. marshals, a $98 million increase for the DEA, and a 
$35 million increase for ATF.
  We have also provided strong funding for priority State and local law 
enforcement programs that protect women and children and help support 
our local police officers. I am especially grateful, and I want to say 
a special thank you, to all of the first responders who saved so many 
lives in Houston and across southeast Texas and southwest Louisiana. 
Our first responders have been absolutely magnificent in helping 
protect the people of Texas, and I know they will be there for the 
people of Puerto Rico and Florida.
  Our legislation includes $527 million to fight human trafficking and 
protect women against violence. We have provided $72.5 million to help 
protect missing and exploited children. We have provided $500 million 
for the Byrne JAG program to help local law enforcement agencies and 
$220 million to help

[[Page H6839]]

reimburse State and local agencies for housing criminal aliens.
  The CHAIR. The time of the gentleman has expired.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chair, I yield an additional 30 seconds to the 
gentleman from Texas.
  Mr. CULBERSON. Mr. Chair, the bill also provides $19.9 billion for 
NASA, which is a $218 million increase, and the bill advances space 
exploration and ensures America will remain the world leader in space 
exploration and technology.
  The bill makes sure that the human spaceflight program is fully 
funded and that we will have Americans launched back into space on 
American-built rockets as soon as humanly possible.
  The bill does not adopt the proposed cut to the National Science 
Foundation, and we have continued to fund basic scientific research.
  We have included numerous oversight provisions, Mr. Chairman, to 
protect hard-earned taxpayer dollars, and we have also continued 
provisions included in previous year bills to protect our Second 
Amendment rights.
  Mr. Chair, I thank the chairman for the time and urge all Members to 
support the CJS bill.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Maryland (Mr. Hoyer), the distinguished Democratic whip.
  Mr. HOYER. Mr. Chair, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding. 
Initially, I want to say that I hope that very soon, in a bipartisan 
way, we will bring a DACA bill to this floor.
  Let me quote what President Trump said last night. Trump tweeted that 
he wanted to ``legalize DACA,'' another call to action, and further 
muddled where the administration stood and what it would do.
  He said: We need to come together and do this, and we really have no 
choice.
  Now, I want to speak about this bill. As the chairman knows, and as 
the ranking member knows, I served on the Appropriations Committee for 
23 years, so I have taken leave of absence because I am one of the 
leaders on our side of the aisle.
  For most of those years, we worked in a bipartisan fashion. This is a 
partisan bill. It is sad, and it is not regular order at all. Regular 
order is doing one bill after another until you have passed the 12 
bills. In fact, I don't think I have ever seen this process done in 
this fashion.
  When I was the majority leader, the first year we passed all 12 bills 
individually, discretely, separately, and sent them to the Senate 
before the August break.
  Hal Rogers, the former chairman of this committee, said of the 
President's budget: ``While we have a responsibility to reduce our 
Federal deficit, I am disappointed that many of the reductions and 
eliminations proposed in the President's skinny budget are draconian, 
careless and counterproductive.'' I think the same could be applied to 
the budget that is before us.
  The omnibus appropriations package the House is considering this week 
is, as all of us here recognize--all of us recognize--the chairman, I 
have great respect for, and I am not going to ask him publicly whether 
he thinks the Senate is going to adopt any one of these bills, but I 
know his answer.
  The CHAIR. The time of the gentleman has expired.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chair, I yield an additional 1 minute to the 
gentleman from Maryland.
  Mr. HOYER. Mr. Chair, let me say to my colleagues, this is not the 
way to do it. John McCain gave a compelling speech on the floor of the 
United States Senate as he was challenged with a brain tumor and 
thinking deeply about what we ought to do. And he said: We need to act 
together. We need to be bipartisan. We need to do the people's work in 
a way they expect us to do it: together.

  Mr. Chairman, this bill is not going to get a Democratic vote. That 
is sad. It is sad for the House; it is sad for the country; and it is 
sad for the people who will be shortchanged by this bill.
  I urge my colleagues to vote ``no,'' and I urge the majority party to 
return to the table, as surely we will, to work in a bipartisan fashion 
to construct bills that we can all be proud of.
  There will be compromises. We won't get all that we want, but they 
will be bills that the American people can be proud of and that this 
House can be proud of. Let us return to the bipartisan comity and 
respect for one another that so long prevailed in the Appropriations 
Committee. How sad we have fallen to this place.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chairman, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman 
from Texas (Mr. Carter), the chairman of the Homeland Security 
Subcommittee on Appropriations. As I learned this morning, he is a true 
son of Houston, whose eloquence and compassion we heard this morning.
  Mr. CARTER of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I want to thank Mr. Frelinghuysen 
and Mrs. Lowey for all the work that we did together on this bill. The 
whole bill is a good bill. It deserves this House's support.
  But I am here to present the Department of Homeland Security 
Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2018, which, in turn, deserves your 
support. This is a good bill that is essentially for the security of 
our Nation. It not only funds vital security and law enforcement 
capabilities, but it also restores funding for critical Federal 
assistance grant programs and disaster relief.
  As importantly, it provides the oversight essential to ensure the 
Department's actions are in accordance with congressional intent.
  Let's look at it. For CBP, $1.6 billion for 74 miles of border wall 
construction that was previously included in the Make America Secure 
Appropriations Act that was passed in July.
  In addition to the funding for the wall construction, this bill will 
fund additional border patrol agents and virtually all of the 
technology, infrastructure, and assets needed for the security of our 
borders.
  For ICE, this bill funds 44,000 detention beds; 10,000 more beds than 
were funded in 2016; almost 4,700 more than the number funded in 2017.
  This bill will strengthen ICE's ability to enforce immigration laws 
and conduct investigations into human trafficking, child exploitation, 
and transnational crime.
  For TSA, although the bill does not include the proposed increase in 
aviation security fees, it fully funds required transportation security 
screeners.
  For the Coast Guard, all major acquisition programs are funded at the 
required level: the polar icebreaker, the offshore patrol cutter, and 
the fast response cutter.
  For FEMA, the bill fully funds the request for disaster assistance. 
It restores nearly $940 million to the Federal assistance for first 
responder grants and education training exercises. Additionally, the 
bill fully funds all cybersecurity acquisition requirements at the 
requested levels, fully funds the Secret Service, and fully funds E-
Verify.
  In conclusion, my colleagues, this bill strengthens the security of 
our Nation. It also sends a powerful message that if you break our 
Nation's laws and cross the border illegally, you will suffer the 
consequences: apprehension and a guaranteed stay in detention.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from 
North Carolina (Mr. Price), the ranking member of the Committee on 
Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies.
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Chairman, I thank our ranking member 
for yielding, and I thank her and our chairman for their good work.
  I must still rise, however, in opposition to the fiscal 2018 
Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies 
bill, and the Republican Omnibus bill.
  I want to stress, Mr. Chairman, that I am heartened, as I imagine 
every Member of this body is heartened, by the bipartisan cooperation 
we have been able to muster to reach out to our neighbors in Texas and 
Louisiana who have been so devastated. It is the same kind of 
solidarity and cooperation that I know we will muster, whatever the 
need is after Irma reaches our shores. We anticipate that storm with a 
great deal of concern and apprehension.
  We have a history in this body of pulling together when it matters 
for our neighbors whenever disasters strike. That kind of cooperation 
is absolutely essential to who we are as a country and who we are as an 
institution.
  Mr. Chair, I want to urge that we bring that same spirit of 
cooperation,

[[Page H6840]]

that same understanding of the historic cooperation that has 
characterized appropriations, to our larger appropriations challenge. 
After all, this is the power of the purse. This is our main 
constitutional power, and history shows it works best when it is 
exercised cooperatively, no matter who the President is or what the 
party division is.
  We need to work in a cooperative fashion to make sure that this power 
is just as effectively and responsibly exercised as possible. This 
eight-bill exercise in which we are engaged today is a deeply flawed 
process. We need to overcome this, and I believe eventually we will, 
with a bipartisan budget agreement such as we have had each of the last 
4 years. This will let us cooperatively write appropriations bills that 
address our country's needs. But that is not where we are today, Mr. 
Chairman.
  I do want to give the chairman of our subcommittee, Mario Diaz-Balart 
of Florida, credit for an open and collaborative process, but he and 
the subcommittee have been dealt an inadequate hand. We simply can't do 
what needs to be done with this allocation.
  In the case of the T-HUD bill, we have only appropriated $56.5 
billion for vital transportation, housing and community development 
programs, and that is $1.1 billion less than the enacted level. We have 
got to do better than this. We have got to do right by our country's 
infrastructure needs.
  One of the most egregious omissions in this bill is funding for the 
TIGER program. This is a program that has addressed infrastructure 
needs across our country. Estimates are that we are addressing only 5 
percent of the meritorious projects put forward under TIGER.
  I can tell you about one project we are funding. I visited it last 
week: Union Station in Raleigh, North Carolina, a beautiful multimodal 
facility that is going to facilitate passenger rail, transit, buses, 
intermodal transportation, and it is going to revitalize a landmark 
downtown district.

                              {time}  1715

  That is an ideal use of TIGER funds. Communities all over this 
country need that sort of investment, yet this bill zeros that program 
out completely. It also cuts New Starts for transit--Capital Investment 
Grants--by $659 million.
  Now, I give the chairman credit for including bill language to ensure 
that the FTA continues to rate and review projects in the New Starts 
pipeline, but at this funding level, only a few of those projects can 
actually be funded. Our cities across this country are eager to 
institute transit programs. They have gone through all the steps to do 
this responsibly. We need to keep faith with those communities by 
improving on this aspect of our bill.
  Over at HUD, the Choice Neighborhoods program--formerly called HOPE 
VI--that has transformed dozens of public housing developments into 
thriving, mixed-income communities, receives only $20 million in this 
bill compared to $137 million in the fiscal '17 bill. Now, I recognize 
this is a placeholder amount, and I look forward to working to improve 
this number moving forward.
  The CHAIR. The time of the gentleman has expired.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield an additional 1 minute to the 
gentleman.
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Additionally, the Community Development 
Block Grant and HOME programs are each cut by $100 million in this bill 
despite bipartisan calls from local elected officials across the 
country to preserve those funding streams.
  We are in the midst of a housing crisis nationally. Only one in four 
people eligible for Federal rental assistance can receive it. We have a 
huge public housing capital backlog, and our infrastructure continues 
to crumble, resulting in decaying highways and bridges and congested 
roads. We should be increasing our commitment to meet these housing and 
transportation needs, not shortchanging them. We have done this for far 
too long already.
  We have returned again and again to appropriations, especially 
domestic appropriations, to bear the whole brunt of deficit reduction. 
The results are a disaster for our economy and for the work of our 
appropriations committees.
  It is truly the worst of both worlds. We are not really addressing 
the main drivers of the deficit, yet we are doing untold damage to 
critical national investments.
  I strongly object also to several policy riders in this bill. They 
unnecessarily attack high-speed rail, they roll back transportation 
safety, and they harm labor rights.
  No number of amendments offered today can fix this bill. I remain 
hopeful that ultimately we can get a serious budget agreement. In the 
meantime, I urge my colleagues to reject this omnibus bill.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chairman, I yield 4 minutes to the gentleman 
from California (Mr. Calvert), who is the chairman of the 
Appropriations Committee's Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies 
Subcommittee.
  Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chairman, it is my distinct honor to bring to the 
House floor the fiscal year 2018 Interior, Environment, and Related 
Agencies appropriations bill.
  Before I go into the details of the bill, I would like to commend 
Chairman Frelinghuysen for his commitment to the appropriations 
process. Under Chairman Frelinghuysen's leadership, the committee has 
moved its bills through the full committee and is now bringing all 12 
fiscal year 2018 bills to the House floor.
  As reported by the Appropriations Committee, the fiscal year 2018 
Interior and Environment bill is funded at $31.456 billion, which is 
$824 million below the fiscal year 2017 enacted level and $4.3 billion 
above the budget request.
  This legislation makes a concerted effort to prioritize critical 
needs within our allocation while also addressing specific interests 
and concerns brought to our attention through more than 5,000 
individual Member requests.
  In the interest of time, I won't outline all of the programs and 
activities funded in this bill, but I would like to point out a few 
highlights. The committee has provided robust wildland fire funding in 
this bill. Fire suppression accounts are again fully funded at the 10-
year average level, and the bill increases funding for hazardous fuels 
reduction.
  The bill funds the Payments in Lieu of Taxes, PILT, program at the 
fiscal year 2017 enacted level. Rural counties in 49 of the 50 States 
rely on these funds to make up for lost tax revenue.
  Overall, funding for the EPA is reduced by $534 million, or 6.5 
percent, from last year. This legislation provides $5 billion worth of 
investment in water infrastructure through funding in the WIFIA program 
and the Clean Water and Drinking Water revolving loan funds. This bill 
also provides increases to accelerate the cleanup of contaminated 
Superfund and Brownfield sites. These programs help create jobs and 
spur economic development in communities across the country.
  The bill provides $2.9 billion for the National Park Service. It 
increases the construction account by $10 million and maintains 
increases provided last year to address longstanding park operations 
and deferred maintenance needs.
  We have also addressed a number of concerns within the Fish and 
Wildlife Service accounts. The bill restores core programs and popular 
grant programs to fiscal year 2017 enacted levels. It also restores 
funds to combat international wildlife trafficking, protects fish 
hatcheries from cuts and closures, continues funding to fight invasive 
mussels and Asian carp, and reduces the backlog of species that are 
recovered but not yet delisted.
  The bill provides $275 million for Land and Water Conservation Fund 
programs that enjoy bipartisan support.
  The West Coast, and my home State of California in particular, is 
counting on the expertise of the USGS to make earthquake early warning 
systems operational. This bill provides $10.2 million for this public 
safety program that will protect millions of lives and critical 
infrastructure.
  The bill also makes critical investments in Indian Country--a top 
priority of the committee. It honors our commitment to Native Americans 
with particular emphasis on Indian health, law enforcement, education, 
and water settlements.

[[Page H6841]]

  In closing, I would like to thank the staff on both sides of the 
aisle who have worked long hours on this legislation. On the minority 
side, I would like to thank Rita Culp, Jocelyn Hunn, and Rebecca 
Taylor. On the majority side, I would like to thank Darren Benjamin, 
Betsy Bina, Jason Gray, Jackie Kilroy, Kristin Richmond, and Dave 
LesStrang, our chief clerk from the committee staff; as well as on my 
personal staff, Ian Foley, Rebecca Keightley, Tricia Evans, and Dave 
Kennett for a job well done.
  Lastly, I would like to thank my good friend and ranking member, 
Betty McCollum, for working with me to address a number of critical 
needs throughout the bill. While we may disagree on some issues, we are 
never disagreeable with each other and we continue to work well 
together.
  Mr. Chairman, this is a good bill, and I urge its adoption.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield 5 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
Connecticut (Ms. DeLauro), who is the outstanding ranking member of the 
Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and 
Related Agencies.
  Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to this bill. While I 
am glad to see the Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and 
Related Agencies bill on the floor, this is the first time it has been 
considered with amendments since the 2010 appropriations cycle. But 
even with that, I cannot support the underlying bill.
  I will be blunt. This process is a sham. The combined omnibus would 
violate the Budget Control Act caps. It triggers a sequester of $72 
billion from the Department of Defense. I am troubled to see the Labor-
HHS bill, once again, bearing the brunt of Republican budget cuts.
  The overall cuts to nondefense discretionary spending is $8 billion, 
and the Labor-HHS bill is cut by more than $5 billion. This cut, by the 
way, is completely unnecessary because the allocations that we approved 
are approximately $5 billion below what they have said we need for 
nondefense spending, which is allowed under the Budget Control Act. We 
have the resources available, yet the majority refuses to allocate them 
to the essential programs funded through this bill.
  I will also note that when adjusting for inflation, the Labor-HHS 
bill is approximately $30 billion below what it was in 2010.
  Instead of moving this bill, we ought to be negotiating a bipartisan 
budget deal to lift the sequestration caps on both defense and 
nondefense programs, then we could begin working on a bipartisan basis 
to draft a reasonable Labor-HHS bill that adequately funds the programs 
that support the middle class.

  The biggest economic challenge of our time is that too many people 
are in jobs that just don't pay them enough to live on. The programs in 
this bill provide opportunities for hardworking Americans to improve 
themselves and for our economy to grow. We need a country that works 
for the middle class and the vulnerable, not just the wealthy and those 
with the most lobbyists.
  Right now, we grow jobs, but not incomes. The Federal Government has 
long played a key role in helping American workers learn and grow 
through workforce development and connecting businesses with talent. 
But the programs that help grow our economy, educate our students, and 
protect our women and seniors cannot operate if the Labor-HHS bill is 
starved for funding, which is why I oppose the underlying bill.
  I admit that there are a few bright spots. I strongly support the 
increases for NIH research, emergency preparedness, special education, 
and the TRIO and GEAR UP programs. Unfortunately, the modest increases 
in this bill are far outweighed by decimating cuts to programs that 
ought to be seeing increases.
  This bill fails our students and is fundamentally anti-teacher. It 
fails to make new investments in Title I. It eliminates $2 billion for 
supporting effective instruction grants--what that is is teacher 
training.
  This bill's approach to women's health pushes a dangerous and harmful 
ideological agenda and eliminates funding for Title X Family Planning. 
It also eliminates the Teen Pregnancy Prevention Program, and it 
includes ideological riders that would block funding for Planned 
Parenthood and effectively block lifesaving research that use stem 
cells from fetal tissue.
  The bill cuts access to the Mental Health Block Grant and the 
Substance Abuse Prevention Program. It cuts nurse training, tobacco 
prevention, and it completely eliminates the Minority HIV/AIDS 
Initiative.
  It hurts workers by eliminating the Employment Service, which helped 
nearly 6 million unemployed workers, including veterans, find jobs in 
2015. It eliminates grants expanding the highly effective Registered 
Apprenticeship model that connects jobseekers with good-paying jobs 
that employers are desperate to fill. It also cuts funding for other 
job training programs like Job Corps and the Dislocated Workers 
Program.
  Why would we eliminate programs that for so long have been about 
economic opportunity and a ladder to the middle class?
  There are the riders, which I mentioned. This bill blocks funding for 
the Affordable Care Act. It continues to prohibit funding for gun 
violence prevention, which has had a chilling effect on gun violence 
research.
  Finally, it prohibits the Department of Labor from ensuring that 
financial advisers act in the best interests of their clients. This 
week we expect to see several more harmful riders added to the bill.
  At full committee markup, we proposed more than 40 amendments to 
strengthen and improve this bill, but the majority rejected all of 
them.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to oppose this minibus because the 
funding in this bill fails to meet our country's needs, and it breaks 
our promises to women, to seniors, to students, and to our workforce.
  While I am strongly opposed to this bill, I do want to thank the 
committee staff--majority and minority--the ranking member; the chair 
of the committee; and the chair of the subcommittee, Mr. Cole.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from California (Mr. Calvert).
  Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chairman, I yield to the gentleman from North 
Carolina (Mr. Hudson) for the purpose of a colloquy.
  Mr. HUDSON. Mr. Chairman, I would like to begin by expressing my 
appreciation to Chairman Frelinghuysen and Interior Subcommittee 
Chairman Calvert for their strong leadership and good work on this 
legislation and to thank them for this opportunity to speak today.
  I rise to advocate on behalf of the U.S. national forests and their 
upkeep, specifically through the capital improvements and maintenance 
program. This program provides funding to pave our national forest 
roads, such as those within the Uwharrie National Forest located in my 
district.
  Each year, the U.S. Forest Service is given funding to maintain 
roadways across our Nation. While they do their best to sustain 
roadways and trail access points, they can only do so much with the 
resources they are given. These roadways are an integral part of 
ensuring critical public access to our U.S. forestlands.
  Unfortunately, many of our national forest roadways have become 
severely eroded from travel, age, and the elements. The erosion has 
created problems for those who visit the Uwharrie National Forest as 
well as those who access these roads to travel to and from their homes. 
First responders have also not been able to reach residents in 
emergencies due to road conditions in recent years, causing major 
safety risks for people who live along these roads.
  I emphasize this is more than just a headache for these residents, it 
is a real safety issue. I have seen roads firsthand after storms, and 
there is no way fire trucks and ambulances can access these roads in 
their current condition, and I believe it is completely unacceptable.
  I have been advocating on behalf of the Uwharrie National Forest 
since my first term in Congress, and I will continue to engage with 
local, State, and Federal stakeholders on this issue.

                              {time}  1730

  I appreciate Chairman Calvert's attention to this issue and his 
support for

[[Page H6842]]

the Capital Improvement and Maintenance program. I look forward to 
working together with the chairman to find a long-term solution to this 
issue.
  Mr. CALVERT. Reclaiming my time, I thank the gentleman for drawing 
the House's attention to the road construction and maintenance needs of 
the Forest Service. I would be pleased to work with him and anyone else 
interested in our national forests as we move through the FY 2018 
spending process.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Indiana (Mr. Visclosky), the ranking member of the Subcommittee on 
Defense.
  (Mr. VISCLOSKY asked and was given permission to revise and extend 
his remarks.)
  Mr. VISCLOSKY. Mr. Chairman, I extend my gratitude to Chairman 
Frelinghuysen, Ranking Member Lowey, Chairman Diaz-Balart, Ranking 
Member Price, and all of our staff for their very hard work in crafting 
the transportation portion of the underlying bill.
  I am pleased that, in comparison to the President's budget, this bill 
includes a $500 million increase for the Capital Investment Grant 
program. This program provides critical funding to transit projects 
throughout our Nation.
  While this funding increase is encouraging, it is my hope that a 
higher number can be agreed to in conference. The Senate Appropriations 
Committee has approved a funding level of $2.1 billion, and I strongly 
believe that the chairs and ranking members have demonstrated a 
commitment to providing robust funding for transportation investments 
to grow jobs and our economy.
  I am particularly grateful for the inclusion of report language that 
protects those in the queue for CIG projects and that the Senate 
Appropriations Committee has also approved similar language.
  I was alarmed that the President's budget sought to eliminate funding 
for projects that had not yet received full funding grant agreements. I 
would emphasize that 23 States currently have CIG projects, and this 
language would undermine the millions of dollars and years' worth of 
human capital these communities have invested.
  These projects are an investment in our national economy. These 
projects connect people in our communities to educational and job 
opportunities and allow businesses to grow and thrive. It is absolutely 
critical that we prioritize these investments in transportation 
infrastructure.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chairman, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman 
from Oklahoma (Mr. Cole), chairman of the Labor, Health and Human 
Services, Education, and Related Agencies Subcommittee.
  Mr. COLE. Mr. Chairman, I want to begin by thanking the chairman of 
the full committee, the ranking member of the full committee, certainly 
the ranking member of the subcommittee, and the staff for the 
tremendous assistance they provided in putting together this rather 
large and complex piece of legislation.
  It is fair to note for the record that the allocation we received of 
$156 billion is $5 billion less than we had last year. While our lower 
allocation this year forced us to make some difficult decisions, I want 
to remind my colleagues that the cuts we are making today amount to 
barely 3 percent of what we spent last year and is essentially what we 
spent in fiscal year 2016.
  The bill before us today focuses on key national priorities: 
investing in biomedical research to find cures for diseases like 
Alzheimer's and cancer; ensuring our country is fully prepared and able 
to protect our citizens from disease outbreaks or bioterrorism; 
continuing to support early childhood education, particularly for those 
at risk; helping first-generation college students prepare for, access, 
and complete a postsecondary education; and continuing to support 
people living with disabilities.
  The bill also preserves funds for popular programs like career and 
technical education, support for Historically Black Colleges and 
Universities, programs to help Native Americans, the AmeriCorps 
program, LIHEAP, and the Corporation for Public Broadcasting.
  The National Institutes of Health, our Nation's premier biomedical 
research agency, is funded at $1.1 billion above last year. NIH is 
working to find cures for Alzheimer's disease, cancer, and develop the 
next generation of medical treatment through the use of precision 
medicine techniques.
  We need to continue to build upon the $2 billion increase provided in 
the omnibus last year. I view this proposal as a floor, not a ceiling, 
for biomedical research funding. I am hopeful that this number can 
increase as the process moves forward.
  Biodefense and preparedness programs, including new funding to 
prevent a pandemic flu from occurring, are increased across the bill.
  We are all aware of the terrible toll prescription drugs and opioid 
abuse is taking on our Nation. I am proud to say this bill includes 
another $500 million to continue comprehensive grant programs to enable 
States, localities, and tribes to develop anti-opioid initiatives 
focused on prevention, education, and treatment and recovery services.
  Head Start receives a $22 million increase in this bill. Preschool 
programs are continued at $250 million. Childcare programs receive a $4 
million increase. Special education programs for students with 
disabilities are increased by $200 million, which will help local 
school districts ease the financial burden of providing specialized 
educational services. TRIO and GEAR UP, which help disadvantaged 
students prepare for and complete college, receive increases of $60 
million and $10 million, respectively, over last year.
  The bill also includes $500 million for the Student Support and 
Academic Enrichment grant program. These funds can be used flexibly by 
school districts across the country, whether the need is in the area of 
counseling, computer science instruction, or teacher training and arts 
programming.
  Pell grants are maintained at a maximum of $5,920.
  The CHAIR. The time of the gentleman has expired.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. I yield the gentleman an additional 1 minute.
  Mr. COLE. I will also note that this is an initial allocation and the 
beginning of the congressional funding process. As always, I look 
forward to working with our counterparts in the Senate and my friends 
across the aisle to see if there are additional areas where we can 
cooperate.
  Finally, I want to note that the bill protects human life by 
continuing longstanding prohibitions against Federal tax dollars being 
used to pay for abortions, including new provisions to ensure that no 
tax dollars are used for research on human fetal tissue obtained by an 
abortion.
  This bill represents a balanced approach that will benefit every 
American and maintain the appropriate stewardship of taxpayer dollars 
that we have been entrusted with as Members of Congress.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield 5 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
California (Ms. Roybal-Allard), ranking member of the Homeland Security 
Subcommittee of the Appropriations Committee.
  Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Mr. Chairman, the FY 2018 Department of Homeland 
Security funding bill addresses many bipartisan priorities, including 
maintaining funding for first responder and antiterrorism grants and 
the Emergency Food and Shelter Program. It provides increases above the 
request for the Office for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties, Nonprofit 
Security grants, new Coast Guard assets, and ICE child exploitation 
investigations. It also restores funding for Science and Technology 
Centers of Excellence.
  The bill restores funding for flood mapping grants, which the 
administration proposed to eliminate, and funding for pre-disaster 
mitigation grants, for which the administration proposed a 60 percent 
cut. These grants support precisely the kinds of programs that help 
communities mitigate and prepare for the impacts of natural disasters 
like Hurricane Harvey, and we should be investing in them even more.
  The bill also provides the President's request for the Disaster 
Relief Fund. We will, however, need to appropriate more money beyond 
that approved by the House earlier today in order to address the damage 
caused by Harvey and, potentially, Irma.
  While there is much in this bill Democrats can support, 
unfortunately, for several reasons, we cannot support this bill. For 
example, we cannot support the bill's $705 million increase for

[[Page H6843]]

Interior immigration enforcement. This includes an increase of 4,676 
detention beds, which is 10,000 above fiscal year 2016, and the hiring 
of 1,000 additional ICE officers and agents.
  The administration says its more aggressive enforcement approach is 
critical to national security and public safety. In fact, ICE is now 
arresting people with no criminal infractions who have lived, worked, 
and paid taxes in this country for years--and even decades.
  These arrests are not required for national security or public 
safety. They have tragic consequences for families and communities all 
over this country. The trauma being inflicted on them cannot be 
overstated.
  Mr. Chairman, we are dealing with a moral question as much as a legal 
one. ICE has the discretion to enforce our immigration laws fairly and 
justly, and Congress has the discretion to prioritize how we spend 
taxpayer dollars.
  Instead of overly aggressive immigration enforcement, we should be 
investing more in real security vulnerabilities. These include 
cybersecurity, human trafficking investigations, Coast Guard vessels 
and aircraft, flood mapping, and pre-disaster mitigation.
  We should invest in more Customs officers. We should restore funding 
for research and laboratory facilities at the Science and Technology 
Directorate and for TSA's Law Enforcement Officer Reimbursement 
Program. Unfortunately, we are not doing any of this.
  However, before concluding, I want to take a moment to talk about the 
Trump administration's announcement yesterday on ending the DACA 
program.
  An amendment I offered in committee to clarify the basic authority of 
DHS to continue the program failed on a party-line vote. It would have 
given Congress time to enact a more formal authorization and given 
DREAMers the peace of mind of knowing they would not have to go back 
into the shadows. With the administration's announcement yesterday, 
that peace of mind has been cruelly snatched away.
  We shouldn't wait 6 months to fix this problem. The majority should 
bring my bipartisan, bicameral bill, the DREAM Act, to the floor as 
soon as possible so that DREAMers can continue to contribute to this 
country free of the fear of being deported from the only home they 
know.
  In closing, Mr. Chairman, I want to extend my appreciation for the 
efforts of the subcommittee chairman, Chairman Carter, and his staff, 
who worked with the minority throughout the development of this bill. 
Consistent with prior years, Chairman Carter has carried out his 
responsibilities honorably, fairly, and collaboratively.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chairman, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman 
from Florida (Mr. Diaz-Balart), chairman of the Transportation, Housing 
and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Subcommittee on 
Appropriations.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, before I begin, I want to thank the 
chairman, our members, colleagues, and the leadership for being so 
understanding.
  Tomorrow, I will be heading back to south Florida to be there in case 
this horrible storm does head our way. Again, everyone has been 
incredibly supportive and shown great solidarity. I am exceedingly 
grateful for that.
  I rise today to express the strongest possible support for this bill. 
I applaud the leadership of Chairman Frelinghuysen for making it 
possible to consider it on the floor today.
  I would like to highlight some of the vital issues in this bill.
  The Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related 
Agencies division provides $56.5 billion in discretionary budget 
authority. That is $1.1 billion below the fiscal year 2017 enacted 
level, but it is $8.6 billion above the budget request.

  We have targeted transportation and housing funding to essential 
investments in safety, infrastructure, and assistance for our most 
vulnerable citizens: the elderly; the disabled; and, yes, America's 
heroes, our veterans.
  We also had to prioritize by reducing or eliminating nonessential 
programs and scaling back administrative accounts.
  For the Department of Transportation, the bill includes $17.8 billion 
in discretionary appropriations and $76.7 billion in total resources. 
That includes support for the FAST Act obligation limitations.
  The Federal Aviation Administration is funded at $16.6 billion, Mr. 
Chairman. We provide this increase to keep advancing NextGen programs 
with over $1 billion and to continue to operate the safest, most 
complex, most advanced air traffic control system in the world.
  The bill reflects FAST Act priorities for highways, rail, and 
transit. It includes $45 billion in road and bridge funding from the 
highway trust fund, which is almost $1 billion above fiscal year 2017 
levels. This funding will provide much-needed improvements to America's 
highways and bridges.
  The bill provides $2.2 billion to the Federal Railroad Administration 
to continue our commitment to rail safety and to make critical 
infrastructure investments. This includes FAST Act rail infrastructure 
investments to address the state of good repair backlog, which we 
really need to address.
  As a reflection of tough choices, Mr. Chairman, our funding level for 
transit Capital Investment Grants is $600 million below the 2017 level.

                              {time}  1745

  But we have, and this is important, included funding and direction to 
keep upcoming projects in the pipeline.
  For housing programs, we work to ensure that we continue assistance 
to our most vulnerable population. The bill includes $38.3 billion for 
Department of Housing and Urban Development. The bill also includes 
significant increases to keep pace with inflation, almost $1 billion 
above last year, for direct rental assistance to maintain, again, 
housing for those who are currently served.
  Homeless assistance remains a top priority in this bill. We included 
funding at the enacted level and well above the budget request.
  The CHAIR. The time of the gentleman has expired.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chairman, I yield an additional 1 minute to 
the gentleman from Florida.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, the bill restores a number of programs 
that Members, frankly, from both sides of the aisle made sure that we 
were aware of.
  The bill restores a number of community development programs that 
were proposed for elimination in the budget request, including CDBG and 
HOME. Again, we listened to Members from both sides of the aisle, and 
we made sure that that was a priority in this bill. These programs, 
again, support decisionmaking at the local level where it should be.
  Before I close, I want to thank the hardworking and talented staff 
who helped put this together, the subcommittee staff. I was going to 
read their names, and again, I know I am running out of time, but I 
think this is the best staff anywhere in Congress. I also want to thank 
my personal staff, my chief of staff, Miguel Mendoza, who is the deputy 
chief of staff as well, and from the minority staff, Joe Carlile and 
Angela, and so many others who have worked hand-in-hand with my 
committee staff. And I would be remiss if I did not, in particular, 
thank Mr. Price, the ranking member. He has been great to work with, 
work cooperatively. I ask for your favorable support of this bill.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from 
Georgia (Mr. Bishop), the ranking member of the Subcommittee on 
Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and 
Related Agencies.
  Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, let me just say I believe that 
we are missing out on the opportunity to effectively do our jobs.
  As elected Members of Congress, we are here to fight for what is 
right, what is fair, and what is just. When presented with the 
administration's budget, it is Congress that is charged to serve as the 
first line of defense for the needs of the American people.
  And the agriculture bill before us, as a part of this omnibus, is our 
attempt at doing just that. However, the progress made in the 
agriculture bill will end here because we do not have a budget 
resolution to conference, and it is entangled with other very 
contentious bills, and that is most unfortunate.

[[Page H6844]]

  In light of the draconian budget request presented by the President, 
Congressman Aderholt and I, along with our bipartisan Agriculture 
Appropriations Subcommittee colleagues, worked diligently to protect as 
much of our country's agriculture and food and drug safety systems as 
we could.
  In order to inflict the least amount of damage, the funding 
reductions were spread across several programs. But let me be clear, 
the communities that make up this great Nation need these programs to 
be robustly funded in order to keep us competitive in the global 
marketplace.
  The United States of America will not continue to be the Nation that 
produces the safest, most abundant, highest quality, most economical 
food and fiber anywhere in the industrialized world if sufficient 
resources are not made available by this Congress.
  While we were able to maintain McGovern-Dole at the 2017 level, the 
Food for Peace program was reduced.
  This bill provides $830.4 million for research and education 
activities, which includes approximately $161 million in funding, 
consistent with fiscal year 2017, for minority serving land-grant 
institutions. These funds will assist in increasing minority 
representation and participation in the multidisciplinary agriculture 
community in fields such as agriculture research, agribusiness, as well 
as farming and ranching.
  At the same time, the Commodities Future Trade Commission was 
deprived of the $2 million of funds that it needs to protect U.S. 
customers from nefarious trade activity. Unprecedented language was 
inserted into the bill that allows the CFTC Chairman to reduce the pay 
and benefits of his employees if he deems it necessary to avoid a RIF 
or furlough, whether or not it abrogates established collective 
bargaining agreements.
  And unfortunately, the amendment I submitted to strike that provision 
was not made in order by the House Rules Committee.
  Funding for the Food and Drug Administration remains flat, which is 
in stark contrast to the Trump budget that sought to cut it by more 
than $900 million. And still, funding for this agency that oversees the 
safety of our food, drugs, and medical devices will not grow, despite 
our significant dependence on their activities and the increasing 
workload each and every year.
  FDA is being forced to do more with less resources, and that limits 
its ability to adequately protect the health, safety, and welfare of 
the American people.
  Nutrition. Mandatory funding for SNAP and child nutrition were funded 
consistent with the current estimates. That is good. Additionally, 
school kitchen grants are funded at $25 million, which the Trump 
administration requested be zeroed out. I thank the committee for this.
  Now, we just voted for a bill to provide aid for the victims of 
Hurricane Harvey just as the potential impact of Hurricane Irma looks 
over us. Instead of being proactive to ensure our citizens who have 
been and will be impacted by impending natural disasters are protected, 
we are going to the floor with a package which inadequately funds our 
Federal agencies and does not completely meet the needs of the citizens 
of this great Nation.
  This approach to funding our government for fiscal year 2018 all but 
guarantees our short term, if not a full year, continuing resolution. 
But just like every year, Democratic votes will be needed to enact an 
appropriations law. Working together on a bipartisan basis will be 
absolutely necessary for it to move forward.
  Mr. Chairman, we still have a lot of work to do to discharge our 
obligations to the American people.
  The CHAIR. The time of the gentleman has expired.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield an additional 30 seconds to the 
gentleman.
  Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, regretfully, this bill falls 
short.
  I would like to thank Mr. Aderholt for his work as chairman of the 
subcommittee, Chairman Frelinghuysen, and both of them for conducting 
the Appropriations Committee markups fairly and collegially, and Mrs. 
Lowey, our full committee ranking member, for her very strong and 
inspiring leadership.
  And with that, let me thank our staffs on the majority and minority 
sides for all of their cooperation.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chairman, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman 
from Georgia (Mr. Graves), the chairman of the Financial Services and 
General Government Subcommittee on Appropriations.
  Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I want to thank Chairman 
Frelinghuysen for his support and his team for bringing us to this 
point today and this week to do what many thought couldn't be done, and 
that is, getting all 12 of our appropriation bills done in a timely 
fashion.
  But today it is a privilege for me to present the Financial Services 
and General Government Appropriations Act, and this wouldn't be 
possible without Ranking Member Quigley's effort and his team, and I 
appreciate their work as we have been through many months of effort 
together.
  But I believe this is the prosperous part of the Make America Secure 
and Prosperous Appropriations Act, and I will explain why that is. 
Because this bill includes many of the reforms that were found in the 
CHOICE Act, which we passed earlier this spring in the House, which 
eliminated many of the harmful Dodd-Frank regulations, streamlining 
outdated agency processes, and reining in those rogue agencies that we 
have heard so much about, while allowing the economy and the markets to 
begin working for American families. And we will also restore the 
financial freedoms that help Americans earn a living and achieve their 
American Dream, of which we have all been hearing about over these last 
weeks in August.
  But this bill also invests in small businesses. It invests in the 
small businesses through the SBA by $1 billion, nearly $1 billion of 
new investment to the Small Business Administration, with significant 
funding for small business loans and particularly to those veterans of 
ours who are out there working hard and starting their own businesses.
  But this bill also carries the entire Financial Institution 
Bankruptcy Act, which passed this House earlier this year, as well, on 
a bipartisan vote.
  But IRS funding, again, is kept at a 2009 level, actually a little 
bit below that, but allowing targeted investments in consumer service 
and cybersecurity. But this bill maintains our commitment to the IRS 
oversight that we have been working on so hard over the last couple of 
years by prohibiting the harmful regulations that we have seen from 
them that have impacted our 501(c)(4) organizations.
  It prohibits them targeting these groups based on their political 
beliefs or their exercising of their First Amendment rights, but it 
also allows for many of the other protections for taxpayers that we 
have been longing to do.
  To combat the opioid crisis, we include more than $360 million to aid 
Federal drug control programs like drug courts and drug free 
communities.
  But it is also important to note that we carry the pro-life 
provisions that have been a pattern and a custom and a privilege that 
this House has done for so many years over the past, but we have added 
to that. We have expanded it by including the Harris amendment that 
prohibits funding from being provided through multi-State plans that 
cover abortion, and we also included a provision that repeals the 
District of Columbia's assisted suicide measure.
  Now, this bill comes in at about $20 billion, and that is a big 
number. But let me point out that is over 6 percent less. That is a 6 
percent cut just from last year, so we are making a difference.
  Now, when crafting this bill, I took my direction straight from the 
Members of this House, Republican and Democrat. This is a result of 
your interests, interests of your constituents included in this in a 
bipartisan fashion with a bipartisan vote out of committee.
  Now, many tough decisions were made.
  The CHAIR. The time of the gentleman has expired.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chairman, I yield an additional 1 minute to 
the gentleman.
  Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, now, many tough decisions have 
been made across all these bills, but this one as well, with a strong 
focus on

[[Page H6845]]

financial freedom for all Americans. Now, I believe this bill will make 
America prosperous again.
  So I want to thank Chairman Frelinghuysen, all the subcommittee 
chairs, the full committee staff, the minority staff, and ranking 
members. This whole team has been great to work with, but it is 
important to thank my subcommittee. They have been through a lot of 
hard work with me, Mr. Chairman, and they have done a great job working 
with me and the many hours of hard work and weekends that they put in.
  Mr. Chairman, I strongly urge every Member to support this bill.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield 5 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
Minnesota (Ms. McCollum), ranking member of the Interior, Environment, 
and Related Agencies Subcommittee.
  (Ms. McCOLLUM asked and was given permission to revise and extend her 
remarks.)
  Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, I would like to just take a brief second and 
thank the full committee chair and the full committee ranking member 
for their support as we move forward in this progress, and a special 
thank you to all the great staff on both sides of the aisle, the 
Democratic and Republican staff.
  But my very special thanks to Chairman Calvert, and once again, for 
his staff and our staff, for their work in an open and collaborative 
approach. This committee has a challenging portfolio of issues, and I 
commend the chairman's efforts to find solutions in yet another 
difficult budget year.
  Unfortunately, the fiscal year 2018 Interior, Environment, and 
Related Agencies Subcommittee allocation is $824 million less than last 
year's enacted level.

                              {time}  1800

  This devastating cut to the allocation shortchanges the protection of 
our Nation's natural and cultural resources and has real consequences 
for American families and communities.
  Adequate funding for the Interior, Environment division is critical 
at a time when the Trump administration is attacking the science behind 
climate change and rolling back regulations that protect the water we 
drink and the air we breathe.
  We are at a defining moment in history. Our lack of action to combat 
climate change now will impact the world we pass on to our children and 
grandchildren. We can no longer afford to disregard the overwhelming 
scientific evidence that the planet is warming, sea levels are rising, 
and glaciers are melting.
  We have all seen the destruction inflicted by Hurricane Harvey. As 
the waters recede, the Environmental Protection Agency is playing a key 
role in keeping Americans safe. Once again, we are reminded of the 
importance of agencies like the EPA both during times of crisis and on 
a daily basis.
  Unfortunately, EPA receives the most significant programmatic cuts to 
this division. Slashing the Environmental Protection Agency by $534 
million will severely impact the Agency's ability to protect human 
health and safety and ensure clean air and clean water for all 
Americans.
  The Agency's budget is already $2.2 billion below FY10 levels. It is 
irresponsible to cut the EPA even further.
  The bill also cuts programs critical to managing public lands and 
reduces funding necessary for endangered species listing protection. 
The American people expect us to be good stewards of our public lands 
and wildlife, but this bill falls short on that commitment.
  Despite the bill's shortcomings in environmental protection and 
resource conservation, I want to express how proud I am of this 
subcommittee's nonpartisan approach to addressing issues facing our 
Native American brothers and sisters.
  I am pleased that the bill recommends an increase of $108 million 
over the fiscal year 2017 enacted level for programs critical to Indian 
Country. The health, education, and safety of tribal communities is a 
Federal responsibility that our subcommittee takes very seriously. That 
is one bright spot in this bill.
  Unfortunately, this bill falls far short in too many other areas, 
both as a result of our low allocation and as a result of wildfire 
suppression costs that are burning a hole in this bill. Since the start 
of this year, more than 1.1 million acres have burned. As a result, the 
U.S. Forest Service does not have adequate funding in the current 
fiscal year to combat these disasters. They will need to borrow funds 
from nonfire accounts, making it harder for the Service to conduct 
preparedness activities to reduce the severity of wildfires. That is 
why every member of the Interior Subcommittee is a cosponsor of 
Chairman Simpson's Wildfire Disaster Funding Act.
  I am very disappointed that the majority's leadership missed an 
opportunity to include those commonsense reforms in this legislation. 
That is why I have called for emergency funding for wildfire 
suppression activities in the next disaster supplemental.
  Finally, in addition to the irresponsible cuts to the EPA and natural 
resource programs, I must express my concern and disappointment with 
the partisan riders in this bill that pander to special interests at 
the expense of the public good. These riders jeopardize protection and 
recovery for vulnerable species, restrict protection of our oceans, 
undermine clean water and clean air safeguards, and even prevent the 
development of renewable energy.
  Mr. Chairman, this bill is not sufficient to meet the needs of the 
American people. I know that we can do better than this. Congress needs 
a bipartisan budget agreement that increases nondefense discretionary 
spending levels.
  Despite my current opposition, I want to be clear that I will 
continue to work with Chairman Calvert through this year's 
appropriations process to produce a responsible bill that both parties 
can support.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chairman, I am pleased to yield 2 minutes to 
the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Smith), the chairman of the House 
Science, Space, and Technology Committee.
  Mr. SMITH of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I thank the chairman of the 
Appropriations Committee, the gentleman from New Jersey, for yielding 
me time.
  Mr. Chairman, I am pleased to support H.R. 3354, the Make America 
Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act of 2018, which includes the 
Commerce-Justice-Science funding bill that provides appropriations for 
many of the programs within the Science, Space, and Technology 
Committee's jurisdiction.
  Chairman Culberson has worked closely with us on the Science, Space, 
and Technology Committee to include responsible, pro-science funding 
levels for NASA, the National Science Foundation, NOAA, and the 
National Institute of Standards and Technology. His consultation and 
cooperation are much appreciated. I thank Chairman Culberson and his 
clerk, John Martens, for their leadership in passing this legislation 
that sets America on a path to remain the world's leader in innovation.
  The appropriations included in this legislation are consistent with 
the NASA Transition Authorization Act, the American Innovation and 
Competitiveness Act, and the Weather Research and Forecasting 
Innovation Act, all three of which were enacted into law earlier this 
year.
  The CJS bill fully funds the planetary science and exploration 
programs at NASA, implements a national interest standard for every NSF 
grant, and increases weather research and commercial data use to 
improve forecasting to save lives and property, which is especially 
timely today.
  Later, I will offer an amendment, with Chairman Culberson's support, 
to increase basic research in the physical and biological sciences at 
the National Science Foundation.
  I strongly encourage my colleagues to support this pro-science, 
fiscally responsible appropriations bill.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I am very pleased to yield 4 minutes to the 
gentleman from Illinois (Mr. Quigley), ranking member of the 
Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government.
  Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Chairman, I thank the ranking member for yielding. I 
want to thank Mrs. Lowey and the chairman for their leadership 
throughout the appropriations process.
  Mr. Chairman, as ranking member of the Financial Services and General 
Government Subcommittee, I also thank Chairman Graves, whom I have 
gotten to know and work more closely with over the last few months. Our 
discussions have been both passionate and

[[Page H6846]]

productive, and I thank Chairman Graves for his willingness to 
compromise on shared priorities.
  Of course, I would like to thank Dena, Kelly, Ariana, Marybeth, and 
Brad on the majority staff and our talented staff director, Lisa, on 
the minority staff for all of the time and effort they spent working 
together to putting the FSGG portion of the bill together. And to my 
own staff, Doug, who writes these things and doesn't put his own name 
on there, I want to thank him anyway.
  Unfortunately, the FSGG portion of the bill before us will make it 
more difficult for us to grow small businesses, enforce consumer 
protections, and promote good governance. With $1.6 billion in cuts 
from fiscal year 2017, many successful and established programs will 
suffer.
  The Small Business Administration is cut by $39 million, with most 
coming from reductions to entrepreneurial programs that assist millions 
of small-business owners.
  The Community Development Financial Institutions Fund is cut by $58 
million, or 28 percent, which means fewer resources to spur economic 
growth and revitalize our most underserved and neglected communities.
  GSA has zero funds to start new construction and completely rescinds 
the money provided in the FY17 omnibus for the new FBI headquarters, 
compromising our national security.
  And the IRS, which has already lost over a billion dollars in funding 
and 18,000 staff over the past 7 years, is further weakened by 
additional cuts that weaken the agency's ability to close the tax gap, 
catch tax cheats, and provide sufficient services for honest taxpayers.
  In addition, the FSGG bill contains a long list of policy riders that 
will undermine enforcement of the Affordable Care Act, restrict the 
ability for a woman to make personal healthcare decisions, and block 
the District of Columbia from using local funds to make local 
decisions.
  Furthermore, this bill contains 88 pages of authorizing text to 
repeal key provisions of Dodd-Frank and weaken the Consumer Financial 
Protection Bureau.
  Less than a decade ago, a financial crisis sparked the biggest global 
recession since the Great Depression and pushed our economy to the 
brink of collapse. No serious person would argue that the status quo, 
which almost crippled our economy, was working before the crisis. We 
need to make our financial markets safer, more transparent, and more 
accountable, and that is exactly what Dodd-Frank did.
  Lastly, as I mentioned in my testimony before the Rules Committee, it 
is worth mentioning again how disappointed I am that the Rules 
Committee decided to unilaterally strip a provision agreed to by the 
committee. Congressman Aguilar's language, which passed by voice vote 
in the course of committee markup, was adopted according to regular 
order.
  The provision is straightforward. It simply clarifies that DACA 
recipients be eligible for Federal employment. Yet, without any 
explanation, this section has disappeared as if it never existed. Given 
the administration's shameful decision to rescind the DACA program, I 
anticipate that we will rigorously debate this issue over the next 
couple days.
  Again, while I cannot support this bill, I remain committed to 
working with my colleagues on the majority side to strengthen funding 
and remove harmful and unnecessary riders.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chairman, I yield 6 minutes to the gentleman 
from Oklahoma (Mr. Cole) for the purpose of three colloquies.
  Mr. COLE. Mr. Chairman, I yield to the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. 
Collins), my colleague, for the purpose of a colloquy.
  Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I have become increasingly 
aware of the problem with hospital-acquired pressure ulcers.
  Research shows millions of people suffer from this condition and that 
60,000 hospital patients a year die because of this painful ailment. 
Eleven percent of those affected are our veterans.
  Their suffering is tremendous, and the cost of this condition to our 
health system could be as high as $25 billion. However, with proper 
commonsense prevention and better management of these infections, the 
number of those suffering and the cost of treatment can be greatly 
reduced.
  I have reached out to CMS about doing a pilot program that promotes 
better prevention and management methods, and I have discussed the 
problem with innovative Georgia companies. I rise today to make other 
Members aware of this issue and ask for your continued support in this 
process.
  Mr. COLE. I thank the gentleman for raising this issue. Along with 
Congressman Woodall and Congresswoman Handel, you have been leaders in 
this effort. I appreciate what you are doing and will stay in touch as 
progress is made.
  Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. As always, the gentleman is gracious, and I 
do appreciate it. Mr. Chairman, I will work with the administration.
  Mr. COLE. Mr. Chairman, I yield to the gentlewoman from Minnesota 
(Ms. McCollum) for the purpose of a colloquy.
  Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chairman, thank you for your work on this bill 
providing funding to critical programs. I appreciate the opportunity to 
speak about the importance of the Community Services Block Grant. This 
program funds community action agencies that address poverty and assist 
seniors and other vulnerable populations in becoming self-sufficient. I 
have seen, in my district, the valuable services these groups provide 
helping people find jobs.

  Mr. COLE. I thank my colleague from Minnesota for speaking about the 
importance of this program in her district. I agree that Community 
Services Block Grant provides important services to help people escape 
poverty. The program has broad bipartisan support.
  As the gentlewoman knows, several challenging decisions have to be 
made to meet overall spending priorities and allocation. I take to 
heart the concern expressed by the gentlewoman and, as we move forward, 
I will work to ensure funding for the Community Services Block Grant 
reflects the priority of our Members.
  Ms. McCOLLUM. I thank the chairman, my friend, for his response and 
commitment to robustly funding the Community Services Block Grant. I 
know this program, as I said, helps people across the Nation and brings 
great value to the communities it serves.
  Mr. COLE. Mr. Chairman, I yield to the gentleman from South Carolina 
(Mr. Norman), my colleague, for the purpose of a colloquy.
  Mr. NORMAN. Mr. Chairman, thank you for your work on this bill which 
provides funding to critical programs within a difficult but fiscally 
responsible allocation. I appreciate the opportunity to clarify on the 
Record a question I have on funding for the National Emergency Grant 
program.
  The National Emergency Grant program provides critical job training 
and reemployment funding for workers who have lost their jobs as a 
result of plant closures or mass layoffs.
  Does this bill fully fund the National Emergency Grant program?
  Mr. COLE. I thank my colleague from South Carolina for raising this 
important question. I agree that the National Emergency Grant program 
is an important bipartisan program to train workers and help them find 
new careers.
  Current year funds for the Dislocated Workers National Reserve are 
increased by $109 million and advance appropriations for fiscal year 
2019 are eliminated, for a total of $130 million. Within that total, 
the National Emergency Grant program is approximately $70 million each 
year.
  It is expected that, after fully funding the National Emergency 
Grants, the Department of Labor will use additional funds from the 
Dislocated Workers National Reserve for other authorized purposes, such 
as technical assistance and grants to help workers dislocated from the 
coal industry find new employment.
  So the short answer to the question is, yes, the National Emergency 
Grant program is fully funded in this bill.
  Mr. NORMAN. I thank the chairman for his response and commitment to 
the National Emergency Grant program. I have seen firsthand the 
importance of this program in my district, including the recent layoffs 
at the VC Summer power plant and throughout the country.

[[Page H6847]]

  


                              {time}  1815

  Getting people who are laid off from their jobs back to work as 
quickly as possible is critically important for affected communities 
and for the economy. I fully support this program and this bill.
  Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes.''
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
California (Mr. Calvert).
  Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, I yield to the gentleman from Washington (Mr. 
Kilmer) for the purpose of a colloquy.
  Mr. KILMER. Mr. Chairman, I would like to thank Chairman Calvert and 
Ranking Member McCollum for supporting important policies and programs 
protecting the unique landscapes you find in the Pacific Northwest.
  Our region values Federal lands, and, likewise, we are proud to host 
all branches of the United States military.
  People come from all over to hike and travel through our forests and 
waterways, and we want to make sure sensitive areas are protected.
  The goals of protecting our environment, the economy that relies upon 
it, and ensuring the readiness of those serving in uniform are not 
mutually exclusive. For the past several years, I have been working 
with the Park Service, the Navy, and many other agencies to understand 
their missions, concerns, and interests with regard to the impact of 
local military jet noise.
  At the same time, I have worked to ensure that they can go the extra 
mile when it comes to public outreach on their plans. Through this 
effort, I have learned that the Park Service and the Navy measure noise 
differently. This has led to difficulty in understanding the impact of 
the noise on the missions of other agencies, local communities, and 
protected lands, such as Olympic National Park. Moreover, it 
complicates any basis to examine possible solutions.
  In order to support a fact-based conversation regarding the impact of 
this noise, I wrote to the Council on Environmental Quality in March 
asking that they work with both agencies to find an agreeable method of 
measuring and reporting the sound of military aviation.
  While I have recently been notified that the CEQ is looking into the 
matter, I look to Chairman Calvert for his support to ensure that the 
relevant parties cooperate and resolve this issue.
  Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, I thank the gentleman for drawing attention 
to the issue. It is my hope that we can move forward with the fiscal 
year 2018 process, and my colleague and I can continue to work together 
with the relevant agencies to address this issue so that his 
constituents and others around the Nation can continue to enjoy all 
that the Park Service and other Interior lands have to offer without 
compromising military readiness.
  Mr. KILMER. Mr. Chair, I appreciate Chairman Calvert's willingness to 
work with me on this effort. Having grown up on the Olympic Peninsula, 
I understand our responsibility to be stewards of the environment and 
to make sure that the Navy is a good neighbor.
  I look forward to working with the chairman, CEQ, the Park Service, 
and the Navy to address this issue.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
California (Ms. Maxine Waters), the ranking member on the Financial 
Services Committee.
  Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California. Mr. Chair, I strongly oppose H.R. 
3354, a bill that not only fails to make critical investments in our 
Nation's future, but also eliminates important protections for everyday 
Americans.
  As ranking member of the Financial Services Committee, I am 
particularly concerned that H.R. 3354 imposes such severe cuts on the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development that it will result in 
families losing their housing assistance and putting them at risk for 
homelessness.
  The bill also takes some of the worst provisions from the 
Republican's ``Wrong'' CHOICE Act that would return our economy to the 
reckless practices that caused the financial crisis.
  One provision takes away the authority of the Consumer Financial 
Protection Bureau to stop abusive practices by banks like Wells Fargo, 
which ripped off more than 3.5 million of its customers. Another 
provision repeals the Labor Department's commonsense rule that protects 
seniors from conflicted retirement advice from unscrupulous financial 
advisers.
  There are so many gifts to Wall Street, one would think Christmas 
came early. But it isn't Christmas, Mr. Chair. It is September, and we 
are in the middle of hurricane season. Our cities are literally under 
water, yet the Republican leadership has done nothing to prevent the 
National Flood Insurance Program from expiring at the end of the month.
  Republicans have also let us come dangerously close to defaulting on 
our debt and the obligations owed to servicemembers, veterans, seniors, 
and the most vulnerable among us. Just yesterday, 800,000 young 
Democrats were told by our President that their future is in the hands 
of a hostile Congress.
  We must oppose this bill so we can get to work on what Congress 
should really be doing.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from Texas (Mr. Carter).
  Mr. CARTER of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I yield to the gentleman from 
North Carolina (Mr. Pittenger), my colleague, for the purpose of a 
colloquy.
  Mr. PITTENGER. Mr. Chairman, earlier today the House passed a 
critical $8 billion disaster relief package that is intended to fund 
the immediate needs for Federal disaster relief.
  Similar to Hurricane Harvey, a year ago, eastern North Carolina was 
devastated by Hurricane Matthew. Our State suffered $4.8 billion in 
damage, including 98,000 homes and 19,000 businesses. 82,000 people 
have made applications to FEMA.
  Mr. Chairman, although the package passed by the House this morning 
was for Hurricane Harvey relief, can you please explain how it will be 
also helpful for Hurricane Matthew victims?
  I would like to be able to assure my constituents that Congress will 
continue to support their long-term disaster relief needs.
  Mr. CARTER of Texas. Mr. Chair, I thank the gentleman for yielding, 
and I thank him for bringing up this issue.
  Last week, FEMA was forced to restrict obligations for past disasters 
to prioritize funding for immediate lifesaving efforts in response to 
Hurricane Harvey.
  The supplemental funding bill that passed the House this morning will 
enable FEMA to lift these restrictions and resume funding for long-term 
recovery efforts, such as those in North Carolina and other parts of 
our Nation.
  Mr. PITTENGER. Mr. Chair, if the gentleman will continue to yield, as 
we consider the great plight in Texas of Hurricane Harvey, I also want 
to offer my sincere thanks for the outpouring of support that my State 
continues to receive, that they need after the devastation of Hurricane 
Matthew.
  Mr. Chair, I want to thank Chairman Frelinghuysen, who has offered my 
State great support, and Chairman Carter.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from Alabama (Mr. Aderholt).
  Mr. ADERHOLT. Mr. Chairman, I yield to the gentleman from Iowa (Mr. 
Young) for the purpose of a colloquy.
  Mr. YOUNG of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I rise today to express my support 
for REAP, the Rural Energy for America Program; the Biomass Crop 
Assistance Program; the Biorefinery Assistance Program as well; and for 
improving the changes in mandatory spending for these energy programs 
when this bill is conferenced with the Senate.
  These programs are very important to my State, other States as well. 
They have been used to help farmers reduce their overall operating 
costs and make their farming businesses more competitive. These 
programs have also enabled rural businesses to obtain financing 
assistance, ensuring rural Iowa has similar opportunities to thrive and 
develop.
  Now, I know that we have budget constraints, we are facing them, and 
I know the chairman had to make some tough decisions. I believe he took 
a very thoughtful approach to the overall agriculture appropriations 
bill, and I am very thankful to be on that subcommittee.

[[Page H6848]]

  During the full committee markup, I was pleased that the subcommittee 
chairman committed to working with me to find alternative offsets to 
reduce these spending changes.
  Mr. Chair, I appreciate Chairman Aderholt's attention, and I 
appreciate Chairman Frelinghuysen's attention to this matter, too.
  Mr. ADERHOLT. Mr. Chairman, I am very sympathetic to the gentleman 
from Iowa's concerns regarding the reduction in the bill's mandatory 
energy programs in the farm bill, in particular, the Rural Energy for 
America Program.
  The gentleman from Iowa is indeed a valued member of our 
subcommittee, and he was very instrumental in developing many parts of 
the overall bill, and I appreciate his input greatly.
  A number of factors went into our decision for which programs to 
reduce in order to achieve the $1.1 billion reduction in the bill's 
funding level over this last year.
  As I did mention, as he noted, in our full committee markup, I 
committed to working with the gentleman from Iowa to see where we could 
find alternative offsets, and we will continue to do that as we move 
forward. So I thank the gentleman for bringing this to our attention 
again here on the floor of the House.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chairman, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman 
from Florida (Mr. Yoho).
  Mr. YOHO. Mr. Chairman, I thank Chairman Frelinghuysen for the work 
he has done with the Appropriations Committee.
  Mr. Chair, I rise to speak about two important sections of the 
funding bill: the Agriculture and the State, Foreign Operations 
Appropriations bill.
  I am pleased to support the committee's work in addressing several 
crucial issues facing America's agricultural community.
  I commend the committee for encouraging expansion of the foot and 
mouth disease vaccine supply through the Animal and Plant Health 
Inspection Service at the USDA.
  I am also pleased to support the committee's recognition for the 
critical contributions the National Animal Health Laboratory Network 
makes in responding to emergency threats to American Agriculture, 
funding the National Veterinary Stockpile, and for supporting pest 
management and disease research.
  I also want to recognize the committee's support for citrus greening 
research and response, which is vital to the State of Florida's 
economy. This vital program we are supporting today will provide 
valuable protection for our agricultural system from pests and disease, 
and will encourage innovative solutions to agricultural issues to the 
future.
  In regards to the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations budget, 
I want to first thank the committee for including language that will 
make the international broadcasting funds available at levels no lower 
than the previous year. This will ensure the administration has the 
ability to increase the transmissions of information into North Korea, 
which is critical for eroding support for Kim Jong-un's brutal regime, 
breaking the dictator's stronghold on information.
  Finally, I want to mention foreign assistance and development. Today, 
America is confronting unprecedented instability and growing 
humanitarian crises around the world, all of which have a direct impact 
on our national security and economic interests at home.

  The U.S. Government must use each and every dollar more efficiently 
and effectively. This appropriations bill takes important steps in 
making it more effective. This investment in foreign aid can yield 
great returns and can help increase trade, trade that is vital not only 
to my State of Florida, where it supports over 2.5 million jobs, but to 
the entire United States.
  Eleven of the 15 largest importers of U.S. goods and services are 
countries that graduated from U.S. foreign assistance, and 12 of the 15 
fastest growing markets for U.S. exports are former recipients of our 
aid.
  The State Department and U.S. development agencies work to advance 
America's economic interests by promoting exports that today make up 
almost 13 percent of America's $18 trillion economy and supports about 
one in five American jobs.
  We must look to cut the duplicative and ineffective programs while 
empowering the parts of our foreign assistance that work to become even 
more effective.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chairman, how much time is remaining on each 
side? I am prepared to yield back, if the gentlewoman is prepared.
  The ACTING CHAIR (Mr. Bishop of Utah). The gentleman from New Jersey 
has 8\1/2\ minutes remaining. The gentlewoman from New York has 8 
minutes remaining.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. AMODEI. Mr. Chair, I appreciate the opportunity to engage in a 
colloquy with you on an important issue related to the Consumer 
Financial Protection Bureau.
  This Congress should act swiftly and establish a five-member, 
bipartisan commission at the CFPB. A commission structure will bring 
much needed certainty and stability to consumers and small businesses 
who are the most deeply impacted by regulation that reduces access to 
banking products and drives up costs.
  According to FDIC data, financial institutions of all sizes provide 
more than $4 trillion in consumer loans to help America's consumers 
achieve their dreams of purchasing a car, buying their first home, or 
even providing an education for their children. Financial institutions 
also provide more than $600 billion in small business loans to help 
entrepreneurs start or grow their businesses and create jobs. The 
ability of banks and credit unions to continue to serve their 
communities by providing access to credit is critical to making these 
dreams a reality. Therefore, it is important that the agencies that 
regulate our nation's depository institutions are stable, transparent, 
and provide long term certainty.
  A five-member, bipartisan commission at the CFPB will help achieve 
just that. Right now, a sole director at the CFPB over politicizes what 
should be an impartial regulatory body. With every new Director there 
could be a dramatic regulatory whipsaw effect. This volatility will 
leave financial institutions limited in their ability to properly serve 
customers because of an inability to plan for the long-term.
  Protecting consumers and increasing access to well-regulated 
financial products should be a top priority of the CFPB. A bipartisan 
board will ensure consumers best interests are always first by 
increasing transparency and stability in the rulemaking process and 
allowing for more robust debate with many different viewpoints 
considered.
  On multiple occasions, the House of Representatives has passed 
legislation to create a bipartisan commission, and most importantly, 
the American people have made clear that they believe a bipartisan 
commission is a better form of leadership at the CFPB. In fact, a 
recent Morning Consult poll showed that registered voters support a 
bipartisan commission at the CFPB by a 3 to 1 margin, and that just 14 
percent of voters believe the CFPB structure should be left the way it 
is now.
  Congress must implement structural changes at the CFPB. The future of 
consumer and small business lending is too vital to have uncertainty at 
the Bureau.
  Mr. Chairman, do you agree that the regulatory agencies that oversee 
banks and credit unions should take into account the impact to all 
stakeholders and bring certainty to the regulatory framework?
  Will you commit to working with me to depoliticize the CFPB once and 
for all, and bring a stable form of leadership to the Bureau that is in 
keeping with most other financial service regulators?
  Mr. GRAVES. Mr. Chair, I appreciate the gentleman's comments and all 
the ideas of others with regard to this out of control agency and I 
share his passion for bringing the CFPB under Appropriations oversight 
as soon as possible. This is one idea of many, and I look forward to 
working with the gentleman from Nevada and others in the near future as 
we work to protect consumers from this rogue agency in some form or 
fashion.
  Mr. VISCLOSKY. Mr. Chair, I would like to extend my gratitude to 
Chairman Frelinghuysen, Ranking Member Lowey, Chairman Diaz-Balart, 
Ranking Member Price, and all of the staff for their hard work in 
crafting the transportation portion of this bill. It is an extremely 
difficult year to be tasked with funding the federal government, and I 
understand that tough decisions had to be made.
  I am pleased that in comparison to the President's budget, this bill 
includes a $500 million increase for the Capital Investment Grant (CIG) 
program. This program provides critical funding to transit projects 
throughout the nation. While this funding increase is encouraging, it 
is my hope that a higher number

[[Page H6849]]

can be agreed upon in conference. The Senate Appropriations Committee 
has approved a funding level of $2.1 billion, and I strongly believe 
that the Chairs and Ranking Members have demonstrated a commitment to 
providing robust funding for transportation investments to grow jobs 
and our economy.
  I also am particularly grateful for the inclusion of report language 
that protects the pipeline for CIG projects, and that the Senate 
Appropriations Committee has also approved similar language. I was 
alarmed that the President's budget sought to eliminate funding for 
projects that had not yet received Full Funding Grant Agreements. 23 
states currently have CIG projects and this language would undermine 
the millions of dollars and years' worth of human capital they have 
invested. This language is a responsible step that provides much needed 
certainty to communities and shows the President that Congress is 
committed to keeping its word to localities that were promised matching 
federal funds.
  Funding CIG projects is an investment in national economic 
development. These projects connect people in our communities to 
educational and job opportunities and allow businesses to grow and 
thrive. It is absolutely critical that we prioritize these investments 
in transportation infrastructure.
  Mrs. NAPOLITANO. Mr. Chair I rise in strong opposition to H.R. 3354--
``Make America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act, 2018''. I am 
particularly concerned with Section 134 of Division H which prohibits 
states from setting meal break, rest break, and wage standards to 
protect truck drivers.
  On July 9, 2014, the Ninth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that 
trucking operators in California must abide by California labor law and 
allow for a 30-minute meal break after 5 hours of work and a 10-minute 
rest break after 4 hours of work. This meal and rest break standard is 
very reasonable when you consider that truck drivers can be subject to 
14 hours of on-duty time. Section 134 overturns the Circuit Court's 
decision and prohibits California from addressing truck driving safety 
with these regulations.
  Section 134 goes further than just overturning California's laws, it 
also preempts laws in 21 states and territories that guarantee meal and 
rest breaks. These states include Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, 
Illinois, Kentucky, Maine, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Nebraska, Nevada, 
New Hampshire, New York, North Dakota, Oregon, Rhode Island, Tennessee, 
Vermont, Washington, West Virginia, Guam, and Puerto Rico States should 
be allowed to set meal and rest break standards as they see fit for the 
health and safety of their workers.
  Section 134 is additionally harmful because it attacks the wages of 
truck drivers. Section 134 allows trucking companies to pay truck 
drivers on a per load basis even if their routes are delayed for no 
fault of their own. This is a major problem is Southern California 
where truck drivers are delayed by overcrowding at the ports, by 
traffic on our freeways, and by delays at warehouses. A truck driver in 
Southern California can set out to haul 5 loads per day but only end up 
hauling 2 loads. California sets standards to make sure that truck 
drivers make at least the minimum wage and are paid for sick time. 
Section 134 would overturn state based wage laws and allow trucking 
companies to pay drivers less than the minimum wage.
  Section 134 should have no place in this appropriations bill because 
this is a legislative rider in the jurisdiction of the Transportation 
and Infrastructure Committee. The Transportation Committee debated this 
provision during consideration of the Fast Act and it was wisely 
rejected by the FAST Act Conference Committee.
  Mr. Chair, Section 134 is opposed by the State of California, the 
Teamsters, truck safety groups, and the Owner-Operated Independent 
Truck Drivers which represent over 90 percent of the companies in the 
trucking industry.
  Mr. Chair, I strongly oppose section 134 and urge my colleagues to 
vote against this bill.
  The ACTING CHAIR. All time for general debate has expired.
  Pursuant to the rule, the bill shall be considered for amendment 
under the 5-minute rule.
  An amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of 
Rules Committee Print 115-31, modified by Rules Committee Print 115-32 
and the amendment printed in part A of House Report 115-295, shall be 
considered as adopted, and the bill, as amended, shall be considered as 
an original bill for the purpose of further amendment under the 5-
minute rule and shall be considered as read.
  The text of the bill, as amended, is as follows:

                               H.R. 3354

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Interior and Environment, 
     Agriculture and Rural Development, Commerce, Justice, 
     Science, Financial Services and General Government, Homeland 
     Security, Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, State 
     and Foreign Operations, Transportation, Housing and Urban 
     Development, Defense, Military Construction and Veterans 
     Affairs, Legislative Branch, and Energy and Water Development 
     Appropriations Act, 2018''.

     SEC. 2. ADDITIONAL REFERENCE.

       This Act may also be referred to as the ``Make America 
     Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act, 2018''.

   DIVISION A--DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, ENVIRONMENT, AND RELATED 
                   AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2018

        The following sums are appropriated, out of any money in 
     the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the Department 
     of the Interior, environment, and related agencies for the 
     fiscal year ending September 30, 2018, and for other 
     purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                       Bureau of Land Management

                   management of lands and resources

       For necessary expenses for protection, use, improvement, 
     development, disposal, cadastral surveying, classification, 
     acquisition of easements and other interests in lands, and 
     performance of other functions, including maintenance of 
     facilities, as authorized by law, in the management of lands 
     and their resources under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of 
     Land Management, including the general administration of the 
     Bureau, and assessment of mineral potential of public lands 
     pursuant to section 1010(a) of Public Law 96-487 (16 U.S.C. 
     3150(a)), $1,074,503,000, to remain available until expended, 
     including all such amounts as are collected from permit 
     processing fees, as authorized but made subject to future 
     appropriation by section 35(d)(3)(A)(i) of the Mineral 
     Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 191), except that amounts from permit 
     processing fees may be used for any bureau-related expenses 
     associated with the processing of oil and gas applications 
     for permits to drill and related use of authorizations.
       In addition, $39,696,000 is for Mining Law Administration 
     program operations, including the cost of administering the 
     mining claim fee program, to remain available until expended, 
     to be reduced by amounts collected by the Bureau and credited 
     to this appropriation from mining claim maintenance fees and 
     location fees that are hereby authorized for fiscal year 
     2018, so as to result in a final appropriation estimated at 
     not more than $1,074,503,000, and $2,000,000, to remain 
     available until expended, from communication site rental fees 
     established by the Bureau for the cost of administering 
     communication site activities.

                            land acquisition

                    (including rescission of funds)

       For expenses necessary to carry out sections 205, 206, and 
     318(d) of Public Law 94-579, including administrative 
     expenses and acquisition of lands or waters, or interests 
     therein, $12,800,000, to be derived from the Land and Water 
     Conservation Fund and to remain available until expended.
       Of the unobligated balances available for this account from 
     prior appropriations, $1,769,000 are permanently rescinded.

                   oregon and california grant lands

       For expenses necessary for management, protection, and 
     development of resources and for construction, operation, and 
     maintenance of access roads, reforestation, and other 
     improvements on the revested Oregon and California Railroad 
     grant lands, on other Federal lands in the Oregon and 
     California land-grant counties of Oregon, and on adjacent 
     rights-of-way; and acquisition of lands or interests therein, 
     including existing connecting roads on or adjacent to such 
     grant lands; $104,256,000, to remain available until 
     expended: Provided, That 25 percent of the aggregate of all 
     receipts during the current fiscal year from the revested 
     Oregon and California Railroad grant lands is hereby made a 
     charge against the Oregon and California land-grant fund and 
     shall be transferred to the General Fund in the Treasury in 
     accordance with the second paragraph of subsection (b) of 
     title II of the Act of August 28, 1937 (43 U.S.C. 2605).

                           range improvements

       For rehabilitation, protection, and acquisition of lands 
     and interests therein, and improvement of Federal rangelands 
     pursuant to section 401 of the Federal Land Policy and 
     Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1751), notwithstanding any 
     other Act, sums equal to 50 percent of all moneys received 
     during the prior fiscal year under sections 3 and 15 of the 
     Taylor Grazing Act (43 U.S.C. 315b, 315m) and the amount 
     designated for range improvements from grazing fees and 
     mineral leasing receipts from Bankhead-Jones lands 
     transferred to the Department of the Interior pursuant to 
     law, but not less than $10,000,000, to remain available until 
     expended: Provided, That not to exceed $600,000 shall be 
     available for administrative expenses.

               service charges, deposits, and forfeitures

       For administrative expenses and other costs related to 
     processing application documents and other authorizations for 
     use and disposal of public lands and resources, for costs of 
     providing copies of official public land documents, for 
     monitoring construction, operation, and termination of 
     facilities in conjunction with use authorizations, and for 
     rehabilitation of damaged property, such amounts as may be 
     collected under Public Law 94-579 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), 
     and under section 28 of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 
     185), to remain available

[[Page H6850]]

     until expended: Provided, That notwithstanding any provision 
     to the contrary of section 305(a) of Public Law 94-579 (43 
     U.S.C. 1735(a)), any moneys that have been or will be 
     received pursuant to that section, whether as a result of 
     forfeiture, compromise, or settlement, if not appropriate for 
     refund pursuant to section 305(c) of that Act (43 U.S.C. 
     1735(c)), shall be available and may be expended under the 
     authority of this Act by the Secretary to improve, protect, 
     or rehabilitate any public lands administered through the 
     Bureau of Land Management which have been damaged by the 
     action of a resource developer, purchaser, permittee, or any 
     unauthorized person, without regard to whether all moneys 
     collected from each such action are used on the exact lands 
     damaged which led to the action: Provided further, That any 
     such moneys that are in excess of amounts needed to repair 
     damage to the exact land for which funds were collected may 
     be used to repair other damaged public lands.

                       miscellaneous trust funds

       In addition to amounts authorized to be expended under 
     existing laws, there is hereby appropriated such amounts as 
     may be contributed under section 307 of Public Law 94-579 (43 
     U.S.C. 1737), and such amounts as may be advanced for 
     administrative costs, surveys, appraisals, and costs of 
     making conveyances of omitted lands under section 211(b) of 
     that Act (43 U.S.C. 1721(b)), to remain available until 
     expended.

                       administrative provisions

       The Bureau of Land Management may carry out the operations 
     funded under this Act by direct expenditure, contracts, 
     grants, cooperative agreements and reimbursable agreements 
     with public and private entities, including with States. 
     Appropriations for the Bureau shall be available for 
     purchase, erection, and dismantlement of temporary 
     structures, and alteration and maintenance of necessary 
     buildings and appurtenant facilities to which the United 
     States has title; up to $100,000 for payments, at the 
     discretion of the Secretary, for information or evidence 
     concerning violations of laws administered by the Bureau; 
     miscellaneous and emergency expenses of enforcement 
     activities authorized or approved by the Secretary and to be 
     accounted for solely on the Secretary's certificate, not to 
     exceed $10,000: Provided, That notwithstanding Public Law 90-
     620 (44 U.S.C. 501), the Bureau may, under cooperative cost-
     sharing and partnership arrangements authorized by law, 
     procure printing services from cooperators in connection with 
     jointly produced publications for which the cooperators share 
     the cost of printing either in cash or in services, and the 
     Bureau determines the cooperator is capable of meeting 
     accepted quality standards: Provided further, That projects 
     to be funded pursuant to a written commitment by a State 
     government to provide an identified amount of money in 
     support of the project may be carried out by the Bureau on a 
     reimbursable basis. Appropriations herein made shall not be 
     available for the sale of wild horses and burros that results 
     in their destruction for processing into commercial products, 
     including for human consumption.

                United States Fish and Wildlife Service

                          resource management

       For necessary expenses of the United States Fish and 
     Wildlife Service, as authorized by law, and for scientific 
     and economic studies, general administration, and for the 
     performance of other authorized functions related to such 
     resources, $1,247,109,000 to remain available until September 
     30, 2019: Provided, That not to exceed $17,122,000 shall be 
     used for implementing subsections (a), (b), (c), and (e) of 
     section 4 of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 
     1533) (except for processing petitions, developing and 
     issuing proposed and final regulations, and taking any other 
     steps to implement actions described in subsection (c)(2)(A), 
     (c)(2)(B)(i), or (c)(2)(B)(ii)); of which not to exceed 
     $3,270,000 shall be used for any activity regarding the 
     designation of critical habitat, pursuant to subsection 
     (a)(3), excluding litigation support, for species listed 
     pursuant to subsection (a)(1) prior to October 1, 2015; of 
     which not to exceed $1,498,000 shall be used for any activity 
     regarding petitions to list species that are indigenous to 
     the United States pursuant to subsections (b)(3)(A) and 
     (b)(3)(B); and, of which not to exceed $501,000 shall be used 
     for implementing subsections (a), (b), (c), and (e) of 
     section 4 of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 
     1533) for species that are not indigenous to the United 
     States.

                              construction

       For construction, improvement, acquisition, or removal of 
     buildings and other facilities required in the conservation, 
     management, investigation, protection, and utilization of 
     fish and wildlife resources, and the acquisition of lands and 
     interests therein; $16,540,000, to remain available until 
     expended.

                            land acquisition

                    (including rescission of funds)

       For expenses necessary to carry out chapter 2003 of title 
     54, United States Code, including administrative expenses, 
     and for acquisition of land or waters, or interest therein, 
     in accordance with statutory authority applicable to the 
     United States Fish and Wildlife Service, $40,641,000, to be 
     derived from the Land and Water Conservation Fund and to 
     remain available until expended, of which, notwithstanding 
     section 200306 of title 54, United States Code, not more than 
     $10,000,000 shall be for land conservation partnerships 
     authorized by the Highlands Conservation Act of 2004, 
     including not to exceed $320,000 for administrative expenses: 
     Provided, That none of the funds appropriated for specific 
     land acquisition projects may be used to pay for any 
     administrative overhead, planning or other management costs.
       Of the unobligated balances available for this account from 
     prior appropriations, $4,572,000 are permanently rescinded.

            cooperative endangered species conservation fund

       For expenses necessary to carry out section 6 of the 
     Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1535), $53,495,000, 
     to remain available until expended, of which $22,695,000 is 
     to be derived from the Cooperative Endangered Species 
     Conservation Fund; and of which $30,800,000 is to be derived 
     from the Land and Water Conservation Fund.
       Of the unobligated balances available for this account from 
     appropriations made for fiscal years prior to fiscal year 
     2013, $3,000,000 are permanently rescinded.

                     national wildlife refuge fund

       For expenses necessary to implement the Act of October 17, 
     1978 (16 U.S.C. 715s), $13,228,000.

               north american wetlands conservation fund

       For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the 
     North American Wetlands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 4401 et 
     seq.), $38,145,000, to remain available until expended.

                neotropical migratory bird conservation

       For expenses necessary to carry out the Neotropical 
     Migratory Bird Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 6101 et seq.), 
     $3,900,000, to remain available until expended.

                multinational species conservation fund

       For expenses necessary to carry out the African Elephant 
     Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 4201 et seq.), the Asian Elephant 
     Conservation Act of 1997 (16 U.S.C. 4261 et seq.), the 
     Rhinoceros and Tiger Conservation Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 5301 
     et seq.), the Great Ape Conservation Act of 2000 (16 U.S.C. 
     6301 et seq.), and the Marine Turtle Conservation Act of 2004 
     (16 U.S.C. 6601 et seq.), $11,061,000, to remain available 
     until expended.

                    state and tribal wildlife grants

       For wildlife conservation grants to States and to the 
     District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the United States 
     Virgin Islands, the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, 
     and Indian tribes under the provisions of the Fish and 
     Wildlife Act of 1956 and the Fish and Wildlife Coordination 
     Act, for the development and implementation of programs for 
     the benefit of wildlife and their habitat, including species 
     that are not hunted or fished, $62,571,000, to remain 
     available until expended: Provided, That of the amount 
     provided herein, $4,209,000 is for a competitive grant 
     program for Indian tribes not subject to the remaining 
     provisions of this appropriation: Provided further, That 
     $6,362,000 is for a competitive grant program to implement 
     approved plans for States, territories, and other 
     jurisdictions and at the discretion of affected States, the 
     regional Associations of fish and wildlife agencies, not 
     subject to the remaining provisions of this appropriation: 
     Provided further, That the Secretary shall, after deducting 
     $10,571,000 and administrative expenses, apportion the amount 
     provided herein in the following manner: (1) to the District 
     of Columbia and to the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, each a 
     sum equal to not more than one-half of 1 percent thereof; and 
     (2) to Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin 
     Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana 
     Islands, each a sum equal to not more than one-fourth of 1 
     percent thereof: Provided further, That the Secretary shall 
     apportion the remaining amount in the following manner: (1) 
     one-third of which is based on the ratio to which the land 
     area of such State bears to the total land area of all such 
     States; and (2) two-thirds of which is based on the ratio to 
     which the population of such State bears to the total 
     population of all such States: Provided further, That the 
     amounts apportioned under this paragraph shall be adjusted 
     equitably so that no State shall be apportioned a sum which 
     is less than 1 percent of the amount available for 
     apportionment under this paragraph for any fiscal year or 
     more than 5 percent of such amount: Provided further, That 
     the Federal share of planning grants shall not exceed 75 
     percent of the total costs of such projects and the Federal 
     share of implementation grants shall not exceed 65 percent of 
     the total costs of such projects: Provided further, That the 
     non-Federal share of such projects may not be derived from 
     Federal grant programs: Provided further, That any amount 
     apportioned in 2018 to any State, territory, or other 
     jurisdiction that remains unobligated as of September 30, 
     2019, shall be reapportioned, together with funds 
     appropriated in 2020, in the manner provided herein.

                       administrative provisions

       The United States Fish and Wildlife Service may carry out 
     the operations of Service programs by direct expenditure, 
     contracts, grants, cooperative agreements and reimbursable 
     agreements with public and private entities. Appropriations 
     and funds available to the United States Fish and Wildlife 
     Service shall be available for repair of damage to public 
     roads within and adjacent to reservation areas caused by 
     operations of the Service; options for the purchase of land 
     at not to exceed $1 for each option; facilities incident to 
     such public recreational uses on conservation areas as are 
     consistent with their primary purpose; and the maintenance 
     and improvement of aquaria, buildings, and other facilities 
     under the jurisdiction of the Service and to which the United 
     States has title, and which are used pursuant to law in 
     connection with management, and investigation of fish and 
     wildlife resources: Provided, That notwithstanding 44 U.S.C. 
     501, the Service may, under cooperative cost sharing and 
     partnership arrangements authorized by law, procure printing 
     services from cooperators in connection with jointly produced 
     publications for which the cooperators share at least one-
     half the cost of

[[Page H6851]]

     printing either in cash or services and the Service 
     determines the cooperator is capable of meeting accepted 
     quality standards: Provided further, That the Service may 
     accept donated aircraft as replacements for existing 
     aircraft: Provided further, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 
     3302, all fees collected for non-toxic shot review and 
     approval shall be deposited under the heading ``United States 
     Fish and Wildlife Service--Resource Management'' and shall be 
     available to the Secretary, without further appropriation, to 
     be used for expenses of processing of such non-toxic shot 
     type or coating applications and revising regulations as 
     necessary, and shall remain available until expended.

                         National Park Service

                 operation of the national park system

       For expenses necessary for the management, operation, and 
     maintenance of areas and facilities administered by the 
     National Park Service and for the general administration of 
     the National Park Service, $2,410,031,000, of which 
     $10,032,000 for planning and interagency coordination in 
     support of Everglades restoration and $124,461,000 for 
     maintenance, repair, or rehabilitation projects for 
     constructed assets shall remain available until September 30, 
     2019: Provided, That funds appropriated under this heading in 
     this Act are available for the purposes of section 5 of 
     Public Law 95-348.

                  national recreation and preservation

       For expenses necessary to carry out recreation programs, 
     natural programs, cultural programs, heritage partnership 
     programs, environmental compliance and review, international 
     park affairs, and grant administration, not otherwise 
     provided for, $59,629,000.

                       historic preservation fund

       For expenses necessary in carrying out the National 
     Historic Preservation Act (division A of subtitle III of 
     title 54, United States Code), $75,410,000, to be derived 
     from the Historic Preservation Fund and to remain available 
     until September 30, 2019, of which $5,000,000 shall be for 
     Save America's Treasures grants for preservation of national 
     significant sites, structures, and artifacts as authorized by 
     section 7303 of the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 
     2009 (54 U.S.C. 3089): Provided, That an individual Save 
     America's Treasures grant shall be matched by non-Federal 
     funds: Provided further, That individual projects shall only 
     be eligible for one grant: Provided further, That all 
     projects to be funded shall be approved by the Secretary of 
     the Interior in consultation with the House and Senate 
     Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That of the 
     funds provided for the Historic Preservation Fund, $500,000 
     is for competitive grants for the survey and nomination of 
     properties to the National Register of Historic Places and as 
     National Historic Landmarks associated with communities 
     currently underrepresented, as determined by the Secretary, 
     $10,500,000 is for competitive grants to preserve the sites 
     and stories of the Civil Rights movement, and $3,000,000 is 
     for grants to Historically Black Colleges and Universities: 
     Provided further, That such competitive grants shall be made 
     without imposing the matching requirements in section 
     302902(b)(3) of title 54, United States Code to States and 
     Indian tribes as defined in chapter 3003 of such title, 
     Native Hawaiian organizations, local governments, including 
     Certified Local Governments, and nonprofit organizations.

                              construction

       For construction, improvements, repair, or replacement of 
     physical facilities, and compliance and planning for programs 
     and areas administered by the National Park Service, 
     $219,844,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
     That notwithstanding any other provision of law, for any 
     project initially funded in fiscal year 2018 with a future 
     phase indicated in the National Park Service 5-Year Line Item 
     Construction Plan, a single procurement may be issued which 
     includes the full scope of the project: Provided further, 
     That the solicitation and contract shall contain the clause 
     availability of funds found at 48 CFR 52.232-18: Provided 
     further, That National Park Service Donations, Park 
     Concessions Franchise Fees, and Recreation Fees may be made 
     available for the cost of adjustments and changes within the 
     original scope of effort for projects funded by the National 
     Park Service Construction appropriation: Provided further, 
     That the Secretary of the Interior shall consult with the 
     Committees on Appropriations, in accordance with current 
     reprogramming thresholds, prior to making any charges 
     authorized by this section.

                    land and water conservation fund

                              (rescission)

       The contract authority provided for fiscal year 2018 by 
     section 200308 of title 54, United States Code, is rescinded.

                 land acquisition and state assistance

                    (including rescission of funds)

       For expenses necessary to carry out chapter 2003 of title 
     54, United States Code, including administrative expenses, 
     and for acquisition of lands or waters, or interest therein, 
     in accordance with the statutory authority applicable to the 
     National Park Service, $120,575,000, to be derived from the 
     Land and Water Conservation Fund and to remain available 
     until expended, of which $79,006,000 is for the State 
     assistance program and of which $10,000,000 shall be for the 
     American Battlefield Protection Program grants as authorized 
     by chapter 3081 of title 54, United States Code.
       Of the unobligated balances available for this account from 
     prior appropriations, $4,500,000 are permanently rescinded.

                          centennial challenge

       For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of 
     section 101701 of title 54, United States Code, relating to 
     challenge cost share agreements, $15,000,000, to remain 
     available until expended, for Centennial Challenge projects 
     and programs: Provided, That not less than 50 percent of the 
     total cost of each project or program shall be derived from 
     non-Federal sources in the form of donated cash, assets, or a 
     pledge of donation guaranteed by an irrevocable letter of 
     credit.

                       administrative provisions

                     (including transfer of funds)

       In addition to other uses set forth in section 101917(c)(2) 
     of title 54, United States Code, franchise fees credited to a 
     sub-account shall be available for expenditure by the 
     Secretary, without further appropriation, for use at any unit 
     within the National Park System to extinguish or reduce 
     liability for Possessory Interest or leasehold surrender 
     interest. Such funds may only be used for this purpose to the 
     extent that the benefitting unit anticipated franchise fee 
     receipts over the term of the contract at that unit exceed 
     the amount of funds used to extinguish or reduce liability. 
     Franchise fees at the benefitting unit shall be credited to 
     the sub-account of the originating unit over a period not to 
     exceed the term of a single contract at the benefitting unit, 
     in the amount of funds so expended to extinguish or reduce 
     liability.
       For the costs of administration of the Land and Water 
     Conservation Fund grants authorized by section 105(a)(2)(B) 
     of the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act of 2006 (Public Law 
     109-432), the National Park Service may retain up to 3 
     percent of the amounts which are authorized to be disbursed 
     under such section, such retained amounts to remain available 
     until expended.
       National Park Service funds may be transferred to the 
     Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), Department of 
     Transportation, for purposes authorized under section 204 of 
     title 23, United States Code. Transfers may include a 
     reasonable amount for FHWA administrative support costs.

                    United States Geological Survey

                 surveys, investigations, and research

       For expenses necessary for the United States Geological 
     Survey to perform surveys, investigations, and research 
     covering topography, geology, hydrology, biology, and the 
     mineral and water resources of the United States, its 
     territories and possessions, and other areas as authorized by 
     43 U.S.C. 31, 1332, and 1340; classify lands as to their 
     mineral and water resources; give engineering supervision to 
     power permittees and Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
     licensees; administer the minerals exploration program (30 
     U.S.C. 641); conduct inquiries into the economic conditions 
     affecting mining and materials processing industries (30 
     U.S.C. 3, 21a, and 1603; 50 U.S.C. 98g(1)) and related 
     purposes as authorized by law; and to publish and disseminate 
     data relative to the foregoing activities; $1,038,922,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2019; of which 
     $70,933,913 shall remain available until expended for 
     satellite operations; and of which $7,266,000 shall be 
     available until expended for deferred maintenance and capital 
     improvement projects that exceed $100,000 in cost: Provided, 
     That none of the funds provided for the ecosystem research 
     activity shall be used to conduct new surveys on private 
     property, unless specifically authorized in writing by the 
     property owner: Provided further, That no part of this 
     appropriation shall be used to pay more than one-half the 
     cost of topographic mapping or water resources data 
     collection and investigations carried on in cooperation with 
     States and municipalities.

                       administrative provisions

       From within the amount appropriated for activities of the 
     United States Geological Survey such sums as are necessary 
     shall be available for contracting for the furnishing of 
     topographic maps and for the making of geophysical or other 
     specialized surveys when it is administratively determined 
     that such procedures are in the public interest; construction 
     and maintenance of necessary buildings and appurtenant 
     facilities; acquisition of lands for water resources and 
     natural hazards activities through permits and licenses; 
     expenses of the United States National Committee for 
     Geological Sciences; and payment of compensation and expenses 
     of persons employed by the Survey duly appointed to represent 
     the United States in the negotiation and administration of 
     interstate compacts: Provided, That activities funded by 
     appropriations herein made may be accomplished through the 
     use of contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements as 
     defined in section 6302 of title 31, United States Code: 
     Provided further, That the United States Geological Survey 
     may enter into contracts or cooperative agreements directly 
     with individuals or indirectly with institutions or nonprofit 
     organizations, without regard to 41 U.S.C. 6101, for the 
     temporary or intermittent services of students or recent 
     graduates, who shall be considered employees for the purpose 
     of chapters 57 and 81 of title 5, United States Code, 
     relating to compensation for travel and work injuries, and 
     chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code, relating to tort 
     claims, but shall not be considered to be Federal employees 
     for any other purposes.

                   Bureau of Ocean Energy Management

                        ocean energy management

                    (including rescission of funds)

       For expenses necessary for granting leases, easements, 
     rights-of-way and agreements for use for oil and gas, other 
     minerals, energy, and marine-related purposes on the Outer 
     Continental Shelf and approving operations related thereto, 
     as authorized by law; for environmental studies, as 
     authorized by law; for implementing other laws and to the 
     extent provided by Presidential or Secretarial delegation; 
     and for matching grants or cooperative agreements, 
     $171,000,000,

[[Page H6852]]

     of which $114,166,000 is to remain available until September 
     30, 2019, and of which $56,834,000 is to remain available 
     until expended: Provided, That this total appropriation shall 
     be reduced by amounts collected by the Secretary and credited 
     to this appropriation from additions to receipts resulting 
     from increases to lease rental rates in effect on August 5, 
     1993, and from cost recovery fees from activities conducted 
     by the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management pursuant to the 
     Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, including studies, 
     assessments, analysis, and miscellaneous administrative 
     activities: Provided further, That the sum herein 
     appropriated shall be reduced as such collections are 
     received during the fiscal year, so as to result in a final 
     fiscal year 2018 appropriation estimated at not more than 
     $114,166,000: Provided further, That not to exceed $3,000 
     shall be available for reasonable expenses related to 
     promoting volunteer beach and marine cleanup activities.
       Of the unobligated balances available for this account, 
     $25,000,000 are permanently rescinded.

             Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement

             offshore safety and environmental enforcement

                    (including rescission of funds)

       For expenses necessary for the regulation of operations 
     related to leases, easements, rights-of-way and agreements 
     for use for oil and gas, other minerals, energy, and marine-
     related purposes on the Outer Continental Shelf, as 
     authorized by law; for enforcing and implementing laws and 
     regulations as authorized by law and to the extent provided 
     by Presidential or Secretarial delegation; and for matching 
     grants or cooperative agreements, $136,411,000, of which 
     $108,540,000 is to remain available until September 30, 2019, 
     and of which $27,871,000 is to remain available until 
     expended: Provided, That this total appropriation shall be 
     reduced by amounts collected by the Secretary and credited to 
     this appropriation from additions to receipts resulting from 
     increases to lease rental rates in effect on August 5, 1993, 
     and from cost recovery fees from activities conducted by the 
     Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement pursuant to 
     the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, including studies, 
     assessments, analysis, and miscellaneous administrative 
     activities: Provided further, That the sum herein 
     appropriated shall be reduced as such collections are 
     received during the fiscal year, so as to result in a final 
     fiscal year 2018 appropriation estimated at not more than 
     $108,540,000.
       For an additional amount, $50,000,000, to remain available 
     until expended, to be reduced by amounts collected by the 
     Secretary and credited to this appropriation, which shall be 
     derived from non-refundable inspection fees collected in 
     fiscal year 2018, as provided in this Act: Provided, That to 
     the extent that amounts realized from such inspection fees 
     exceed $50,000,000, the amounts realized in excess of 
     $50,000,000 shall be credited to this appropriation and 
     remain available until expended: Provided further, That for 
     fiscal year 2018, not less than 50 percent of the inspection 
     fees expended by the Bureau of Safety and Environmental 
     Enforcement will be used to fund personnel and mission-
     related costs to expand capacity and expedite the orderly 
     development, subject to environmental safeguards, of the 
     Outer Continental Shelf pursuant to the Outer Continental 
     Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331 et seq.), including the 
     review of applications for permits to drill.
       Of the unobligated balances available for this account, 
     $12,000,000 are permanently rescinded.

                           oil spill research

       For necessary expenses to carry out title I, section 1016, 
     title IV, sections 4202 and 4303, title VII, and title VIII, 
     section 8201 of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, $12,700,000, 
     which shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust 
     Fund, to remain available until expended.

          Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement

                       regulation and technology

       For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the 
     Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, Public 
     Law 95-87, $113,790,000, to remain available until September 
     30, 2019: Provided, That appropriations for the Office of 
     Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement may provide for 
     the travel and per diem expenses of State and tribal 
     personnel attending Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and 
     Enforcement sponsored training.
       In addition, for costs to review, administer, and enforce 
     permits issued by the Office pursuant to section 507 of 
     Public Law 95-87 (30 U.S.C. 1257), $40,000, to remain 
     available until expended: Provided, That fees assessed and 
     collected by the Office pursuant to such section 507 shall be 
     credited to this account as discretionary offsetting 
     collections, to remain available until expended: Provided 
     further, That the sum herein appropriated from the general 
     fund shall be reduced as collections are received during the 
     fiscal year, so as to result in a fiscal year 2018 
     appropriation estimated at not more than $113,790,000.

                    abandoned mine reclamation fund

       For necessary expenses to carry out title IV of the Surface 
     Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, Public Law 95-87, 
     $24,672,000, to be derived from receipts of the Abandoned 
     Mine Reclamation Fund and to remain available until expended: 
     Provided, That pursuant to Public Law 97-365, the Department 
     of the Interior is authorized to use up to 20 percent from 
     the recovery of the delinquent debt owed to the United States 
     Government to pay for contracts to collect these debts: 
     Provided further, That funds made available under title IV of 
     Public Law 95-87 may be used for any required non-Federal 
     share of the cost of projects funded by the Federal 
     Government for the purpose of environmental restoration 
     related to treatment or abatement of acid mine drainage from 
     abandoned mines: Provided further, That such projects must be 
     consistent with the purposes and priorities of the Surface 
     Mining Control and Reclamation Act: Provided further, That 
     amounts provided under this heading may be used for the 
     travel and per diem expenses of State and tribal personnel 
     attending Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and 
     Enforcement sponsored training.
       In addition, $75,000,000, to remain available until 
     expended, for grants to States for reclamation of abandoned 
     mine lands and other related activities in accordance with 
     the terms and conditions in the report accompanying this Act: 
     Provided, That such additional amount shall be used for 
     economic and community development in conjunction with the 
     priorities in section 403(a) of the Surface Mining Control 
     and Reclamation Act of 1977 (30 U.S.C. 1233(a)): Provided 
     further, That such additional amount shall be distributed in 
     equal amounts to the 3 Appalachian States with the greatest 
     amount of unfunded needs to meet the priorities described in 
     paragraphs (1) and (2) of such section: Provided further, 
     That such additional amount shall be allocated to States 
     within 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act.

        Bureau of Indian Affairs and Bureau of Indian Education

                      operation of indian programs

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For expenses necessary for the operation of Indian 
     programs, as authorized by law, including the Snyder Act of 
     November 2, 1921 (25 U.S.C. 13), the Indian Self-
     Determination and Education Assistance Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 
     5301 et seq.), the Education Amendments of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 
     2001-2019), and the Tribally Controlled Schools Act of 1988 
     (25 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.), $2,362,211,000, to remain available 
     until September 30, 2019, except as otherwise provided 
     herein; of which not to exceed $8,500 may be for official 
     reception and representation expenses; of which not to exceed 
     $74,650,000 shall be for welfare assistance payments: 
     Provided, That in cases of designated Federal disasters, the 
     Secretary may exceed such cap, from the amounts provided 
     herein, to provide for disaster relief to Indian communities 
     affected by the disaster: Provided further, That federally 
     recognized Indian tribes and tribal organizations of 
     federally recognized Indian tribes may use their tribal 
     priority allocations for unmet welfare assistance costs: 
     Provided further, That not to exceed $662,570,000 for school 
     operations costs of Bureau-funded schools and other education 
     programs shall become available on July 1, 2018, and shall 
     remain available until September 30, 2019: Provided further, 
     That not to exceed $50,991,000 shall remain available until 
     expended for housing improvement, road maintenance, attorney 
     fees, litigation support, land records improvement, and the 
     Navajo-Hopi Settlement Program: Provided further, That 
     notwithstanding any other provision of law, including but not 
     limited to the Indian Self-Determination Act of 1975 (25 
     U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) and section 1128 of the Education 
     Amendments of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 2008), not to exceed 
     $80,168,000 within and only from such amounts made available 
     for school operations shall be available for administrative 
     cost grants associated with grants approved prior to July 1, 
     2018: Provided further, That any forestry funds allocated to 
     a federally recognized tribe which remain unobligated as of 
     September 30, 2019, may be transferred during fiscal year 
     2020 to an Indian forest land assistance account established 
     for the benefit of the holder of the funds within the 
     holder's trust fund account: Provided further, That any such 
     unobligated balances not so transferred shall expire on 
     September 30, 2020: Provided further, That in order to 
     enhance the safety of Bureau field employees, the Bureau may 
     use funds to purchase uniforms or other identifying articles 
     of clothing for personnel: Provided further, That the Bureau 
     of Indian Affairs may accept transfers of funds from U.S. 
     Customs and Border Protection to supplement any other funding 
     available for reconstruction or repair of roads on the Tohono 
     O'odham Nation.

                         contract support costs

       For payments to tribes and tribal organizations for 
     contract support costs associated with Indian Self-
     Determination and Education Assistance Act agreements with 
     the Bureau of Indian Affairs for fiscal year 2018, such sums 
     as may be necessary, which shall be available for obligation 
     through September 30, 2019: Provided, That notwithstanding 
     any other provision of law, no amounts made available under 
     this heading shall be available for transfer to another 
     budget account.

                              construction

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For construction, repair, improvement, and maintenance of 
     irrigation and power systems, buildings, utilities, and other 
     facilities, including architectural and engineering services 
     by contract; acquisition of lands, and interests in lands; 
     and preparation of lands for farming, and for construction of 
     the Navajo Indian Irrigation Project pursuant to Public Law 
     87-483; $202,213,000, to remain available until expended: 
     Provided, That such amounts as may be available for the 
     construction of the Navajo Indian Irrigation Project may be 
     transferred to the Bureau of Reclamation: Provided further, 
     That not to exceed 6 percent of contract authority available 
     to the Bureau of Indian Affairs from the Federal Highway 
     Trust Fund may be used to cover the road program management 
     costs of the Bureau: Provided further, That any funds 
     provided for the Safety of Dams program pursuant to the Act 
     of November 2, 1921 (25 U.S.C. 13), shall be made available 
     on a nonreimbursable

[[Page H6853]]

     basis: Provided further, That for fiscal year 2018, in 
     implementing new construction, replacement facilities 
     construction, or facilities improvement and repair project 
     grants in excess of $100,000 that are provided to grant 
     schools under Public Law 100-297, the Secretary of the 
     Interior shall use the Administrative and Audit Requirements 
     and Cost Principles for Assistance Programs contained in part 
     12 of title 43, Code of Federal Regulations, as the 
     regulatory requirements: Provided further, That such grants 
     shall not be subject to section 12.61 of title 43, Code of 
     Federal Regulations; the Secretary and the grantee shall 
     negotiate and determine a schedule of payments for the work 
     to be performed: Provided further, That in considering grant 
     applications, the Secretary shall consider whether such 
     grantee would be deficient in assuring that the construction 
     projects conform to applicable building standards and codes 
     and Federal, tribal, or State health and safety standards as 
     required by section 1125(b) of Public Law 95-561 (25 U.S.C. 
     2005(b)), with respect to organizational and financial 
     management capabilities: Provided further, That if the 
     Secretary declines a grant application, the Secretary shall 
     follow the requirements contained in section 5205(f) of 
     Public Law 100-296 (25 U.S.C. 2504(f)): Provided further, 
     That any disputes between the Secretary and any grantee 
     concerning a grant shall be subject to the disputes provision 
     in section 2508 of Public Law 100-297 (25 U.S.C. 2507(e)): 
     Provided further, That in order to ensure timely completion 
     of construction projects, the Secretary may assume control of 
     a project and all funds related to the project, if, within 18 
     months of the date of enactment of this Act, any grantee 
     receiving funds appropriated in this Act or in any prior Act, 
     has not completed the planning and design phase of the 
     project and commenced construction: Provided further, That 
     this appropriation may be reimbursed from the Office of the 
     Special Trustee for American Indians appropriation for the 
     appropriate share of construction costs for space expansion 
     needed in agency offices to meet trust reform implementation.

 indian land and water claim settlements and miscellaneous payments to 
                                indians

       For payments and necessary administrative expenses for 
     implementation of Indian land and water claim settlements 
     pursuant to Public Laws 99-264, 100-580, 101-618, 111-11, 
     111-291, and 114-322, and for implementation of other land 
     and water rights settlements, $55,457,000, to remain 
     available until expended.

                 indian guaranteed loan program account

       For the cost of guaranteed loans and insured loans, 
     $9,272,000, of which $1,252,000 is for administrative 
     expenses, as authorized by the Indian Financing Act of 1974: 
     Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying 
     such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That 
     these funds are available to subsidize total loan principal, 
     any part of which is to be guaranteed or insured, not to 
     exceed $123,565,389.

                       administrative provisions

       The Bureau of Indian Affairs may carry out the operation of 
     Indian programs by direct expenditure, contracts, cooperative 
     agreements, compacts, and grants, either directly or in 
     cooperation with States and other organizations.
       Notwithstanding Public Law 87-279 (25 U.S.C. 15), the 
     Bureau of Indian Affairs may contract for services in support 
     of the management, operation, and maintenance of the Power 
     Division of the San Carlos Irrigation Project.
       Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds 
     available to the Bureau of Indian Affairs for central office 
     oversight and Executive Direction and Administrative Services 
     (except executive direction and administrative services 
     funding for Tribal Priority Allocations, regional offices, 
     and facilities operations and maintenance) shall be available 
     for contracts, grants, compacts, or cooperative agreements 
     with the Bureau of Indian Affairs under the provisions of the 
     Indian Self-Determination Act or the Tribal Self-Governance 
     Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-413).
       In the event any tribe returns appropriations made 
     available by this Act to the Bureau of Indian Affairs, this 
     action shall not diminish the Federal Government's trust 
     responsibility to that tribe, or the government-to-government 
     relationship between the United States and that tribe, or 
     that tribe's ability to access future appropriations.
       Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds 
     available to the Bureau of Indian Education, other than the 
     amounts provided herein for assistance to public schools 
     under 25 U.S.C. 452 et seq., shall be available to support 
     the operation of any elementary or secondary school in the 
     State of Alaska.
       No funds available to the Bureau of Indian Education shall 
     be used to support expanded grades for any school or 
     dormitory beyond the grade structure in place or approved by 
     the Secretary of the Interior at each school in the Bureau of 
     Indian Education school system as of October 1, 1995, except 
     that the Secretary of the Interior may waive this prohibition 
     when the Secretary determines such waiver is needed to 
     support accomplishment of the mission of the Bureau of Indian 
     Education. Appropriations made available in this or any prior 
     Act for schools funded by the Bureau shall be available, in 
     accordance with the Bureau's funding formula, only to the 
     schools in the Bureau school system as of September 1, 1996, 
     and to any school or school program that was reinstated in 
     fiscal year 2012. Funds made available under this Act may not 
     be used to establish a charter school at a Bureau-funded 
     school (as that term is defined in section 1141 of the 
     Education Amendments of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 2021)), except that a 
     charter school that is in existence on the date of the 
     enactment of this Act and that has operated at a Bureau-
     funded school before September 1, 1999, may continue to 
     operate during that period, but only if the charter school 
     pays to the Bureau a pro rata share of funds to reimburse the 
     Bureau for the use of the real and personal property 
     (including buses and vans), the funds of the charter school 
     are kept separate and apart from Bureau funds, and the Bureau 
     does not assume any obligation for charter school programs of 
     the State in which the school is located if the charter 
     school loses such funding. Employees of Bureau-funded schools 
     sharing a campus with a charter school and performing 
     functions related to the charter school's operation and 
     employees of a charter school shall not be treated as Federal 
     employees for purposes of chapter 171 of title 28, United 
     States Code.
       Notwithstanding any other provision of law, including 
     section 113 of title I of appendix C of Public Law 106-113, 
     if in fiscal year 2003 or 2004 a grantee received indirect 
     and administrative costs pursuant to a distribution formula 
     based on section 5(f) of Public Law 101-301, the Secretary 
     shall continue to distribute indirect and administrative cost 
     funds to such grantee using the section 5(f) distribution 
     formula.
       Funds available under this Act may not be used to establish 
     satellite locations of schools in the Bureau school system as 
     of September 1, 1996, except that the Secretary may waive 
     this prohibition in order for an Indian tribe to provide 
     language and cultural immersion educational programs for non-
     public schools located within the jurisdictional area of the 
     tribal government which exclusively serve tribal members, do 
     not include grades beyond those currently served at the 
     existing Bureau-funded school, provide an educational 
     environment with educator presence and academic facilities 
     comparable to the Bureau-funded school, comply with all 
     applicable Tribal, Federal, or State health and safety 
     standards, and the Americans with Disabilities Act, and 
     demonstrate the benefits of establishing operations at a 
     satellite location in lieu of incurring extraordinary costs, 
     such as for transportation or other impacts to students such 
     as those caused by busing students extended distances: 
     Provided, That no funds available under this Act may be used 
     to fund operations, maintenance, rehabilitation, construction 
     or other facilities-related costs for such assets that are 
     not owned by the Bureau: Provided further, That the term 
     ``satellite school'' means a school location physically 
     separated from the existing Bureau school by more than 50 
     miles but that forms part of the existing school in all other 
     respects.

                          Departmental Offices

                        Office of the Secretary

                        departmental operations

       For necessary expenses for management of the Department of 
     the Interior and for grants and cooperative agreements, as 
     authorized by law, $122,940,000, to remain available until 
     September 30, 2019; of which not to exceed $15,000 may be for 
     official reception and representation expenses; and of which 
     up to $1,000,000 shall be available for workers compensation 
     payments and unemployment compensation payments associated 
     with the orderly closure of the United States Bureau of 
     Mines; and of which $9,000,000 for the Office of Valuation 
     Services is to be derived from the Land and Water 
     Conservation Fund and shall remain available until expended.

                       administrative provisions

       For fiscal year 2018, up to $400,000 of the payments 
     authorized by chapter 69 of title 31, United States Code, may 
     be retained for administrative expenses of the Payments in 
     Lieu of Taxes Program: Provided, That the amounts provided 
     under this Act specifically for the Payments in Lieu of Taxes 
     program are the only amounts available for payments 
     authorized under chapter 69 of title 31, United States Code: 
     Provided further, That in the event the sums appropriated for 
     any fiscal year for payments pursuant to this chapter are 
     insufficient to make the full payments authorized by that 
     chapter to all units of local government, then the payment to 
     each local government shall be made proportionally: Provided 
     further, That the Secretary may make adjustments to payment 
     to individual units of local government to correct for prior 
     overpayments or underpayments: Provided further, That no 
     payment shall be made pursuant to that chapter to otherwise 
     eligible units of local government if the computed amount of 
     the payment is less than $100.

                            Insular Affairs

                       assistance to territories

       For expenses necessary for assistance to territories under 
     the jurisdiction of the Department of the Interior and other 
     jurisdictions identified in section 104(e) of Public Law 108-
     188, $90,930,000, of which: (1) $81,500,000 shall remain 
     available until expended for territorial assistance, 
     including general technical assistance, maintenance 
     assistance, disaster assistance, coral reef initiative 
     activities, and brown tree snake control and research; grants 
     to the judiciary in American Samoa for compensation and 
     expenses, as authorized by subsection (c) of the Act of 
     February 20, 1929 (48 U.S.C. 1661(c)); grants to the 
     Government of American Samoa, in addition to current local 
     revenues, for construction and support of governmental 
     functions; grants to the Government of the Virgin Islands, as 
     authorized by law; grants to the Government of Guam, as 
     authorized by law; and grants to the Government of the 
     Northern Mariana Islands, as authorized by Public Law 94-241 
     (90 Stat. 272); and (2) $9,430,000 shall be available until 
     September 30, 2019, for salaries and expenses of the Office 
     of Insular Affairs: Provided, That all financial transactions 
     of the territorial and local governments herein provided for, 
     including such transactions of all

[[Page H6854]]

     agencies or instrumentalities established or used by such 
     governments, may be audited by the Government Accountability 
     Office, at its discretion, in accordance with chapter 35 of 
     title 31, United States Code: Provided further, That Northern 
     Mariana Islands Covenant grant funding shall be provided 
     according to those terms of the Agreement of the Special 
     Representatives on Future United States Financial Assistance 
     for the Northern Mariana Islands approved by Public Law 104-
     134: Provided further, That the funds for the program of 
     operations and maintenance improvement are appropriated to 
     institutionalize routine operations and maintenance 
     improvement of capital infrastructure with territorial 
     participation and cost sharing to be determined by the 
     Secretary based on the grantee's commitment to timely 
     maintenance of its capital assets: Provided further, That any 
     appropriation for disaster assistance under this heading in 
     this Act or previous appropriations Acts may be used as non-
     Federal matching funds for the purpose of hazard mitigation 
     grants provided pursuant to section 404 of the Robert T. 
     Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 
     U.S.C. 5170c).

                      compact of free association

       For grants and necessary expenses, $3,300,000, to remain 
     available until expended, as provided for in sections 
     221(a)(2) and 233 of the Compact of Free Association for the 
     Republic of Palau; and section 221(a)(2) of the Compacts of 
     Free Association for the Government of the Republic of the 
     Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia, as 
     authorized by Public Law 99-658 and Public Law 108-188.

                       Administrative Provisions

                     (including transfer of funds)

       At the request of the Governor of Guam, the Secretary may 
     transfer discretionary funds or mandatory funds provided 
     under section 104(e) of Public Law 108-188 and Public Law 
     104-134, that are allocated for Guam, to the Secretary of 
     Agriculture for the subsidy cost of direct or guaranteed 
     loans, plus not to exceed three percent of the amount of the 
     subsidy transferred for the cost of loan administration, for 
     the purposes authorized by the Rural Electrification Act of 
     1936 and section 306(a)(1) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
     Development Act for construction and repair projects in Guam, 
     and such funds shall remain available until expended: 
     Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying 
     such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That such 
     loans or loan guarantees may be made without regard to the 
     population of the area, credit elsewhere requirements, and 
     restrictions on the types of eligible entities under the 
     Rural Electrification Act of 1936 and section 306(a)(1) of 
     the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act: Provided 
     further, That any funds transferred to the Secretary of 
     Agriculture shall be in addition to funds otherwise made 
     available to make or guarantee loans under such authorities.

                        Office of the Solicitor

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Office of the Solicitor, 
     $65,675,000.

                      Office of Inspector General

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
     $49,952,000.

           Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians

                         federal trust programs

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For the operation of trust programs for Indians by direct 
     expenditure, contracts, cooperative agreements, compacts, and 
     grants, $119,400,000, to remain available until expended, of 
     which not to exceed $18,990,000 from this or any other Act, 
     may be available for historical accounting: Provided, That 
     funds for trust management improvements and litigation 
     support may, as needed, be transferred to or merged with the 
     Bureau of Indian Affairs and Bureau of Indian Education, 
     ``Operation of Indian Programs'' account; the Office of the 
     Solicitor,``Salaries and Expenses'' account; and the Office 
     of the Secretary, ``Departmental Operations'' account: 
     Provided further, That funds made available through contracts 
     or grants obligated during fiscal year 2018, as authorized by 
     the Indian Self-Determination Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 5301 et 
     seq.), shall remain available until expended by the 
     contractor or grantee: Provided further, That notwithstanding 
     any other provision of law, the Secretary shall not be 
     required to provide a quarterly statement of performance for 
     any Indian trust account that has not had activity for at 
     least 15 months and has a balance of $15 or less: Provided 
     further, That the Secretary shall issue an annual account 
     statement and maintain a record of any such accounts and 
     shall permit the balance in each such account to be withdrawn 
     upon the express written request of the account holder: 
     Provided further, That not to exceed $50,000 is available for 
     the Secretary to make payments to correct administrative 
     errors of either disbursements from or deposits to Individual 
     Indian Money or Tribal accounts after September 30, 2002: 
     Provided further, That erroneous payments that are recovered 
     shall be credited to and remain available in this account for 
     this purpose: Provided further, That the Secretary shall not 
     be required to reconcile Special Deposit Accounts with a 
     balance of less than $500 unless the Office of the Special 
     Trustee receives proof of ownership from a Special Deposit 
     Accounts claimant: Provided further, That notwithstanding 
     section 102 of the American Indian Trust Fund Management 
     Reform Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-412) or any other 
     provision of law, the Secretary may aggregate the trust 
     accounts of individuals whose whereabouts are unknown for a 
     continuous period of at least five years and shall not be 
     required to generate periodic statements of performance for 
     the individual accounts: Provided further, That with respect 
     to the eighth proviso, the Secretary shall continue to 
     maintain sufficient records to determine the balance of the 
     individual accounts, including any accrued interest and 
     income, and such funds shall remain available to the 
     individual account holders.

                        Department-wide Programs

                        wildland fire management

                     (including transfers of funds)

       For necessary expenses for fire preparedness, fire 
     suppression operations, fire science and research, emergency 
     rehabilitation, fuels management activities, and rural fire 
     assistance by the Department of the Interior, $935,850,000, 
     to remain available until expended, of which not to exceed 
     $8,212,000 shall be for the renovation or construction of 
     fire facilities: Provided, That such funds are also available 
     for repayment of advances to other appropriation accounts 
     from which funds were previously transferred for such 
     purposes: Provided further, That of the funds provided 
     $182,500,000 is for fuels management activities: Provided 
     further, That of the funds provided $19,948,000 is for burned 
     area rehabilitation: Provided further, That persons hired 
     pursuant to 43 U.S.C. 1469 may be furnished subsistence and 
     lodging without cost from funds available from this 
     appropriation: Provided further, That notwithstanding 42 
     U.S.C. 1856d, sums received by a bureau or office of the 
     Department of the Interior for fire protection rendered 
     pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 1856 et seq., protection of United 
     States property, may be credited to the appropriation from 
     which funds were expended to provide that protection, and are 
     available without fiscal year limitation: Provided further, 
     That using the amounts designated under this title of this 
     Act, the Secretary of the Interior may enter into procurement 
     contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements, for fuels 
     management activities, and for training and monitoring 
     associated with such fuels management activities on Federal 
     land, or on adjacent non-Federal land for activities that 
     benefit resources on Federal land: Provided further, That the 
     costs of implementing any cooperative agreement between the 
     Federal Government and any non-Federal entity may be shared, 
     as mutually agreed on by the affected parties: Provided 
     further, That notwithstanding requirements of the Competition 
     in Contracting Act, the Secretary, for purposes of fuels 
     management activities, may obtain maximum practicable 
     competition among: (1) local private, nonprofit, or 
     cooperative entities; (2) Youth Conservation Corps crews, 
     Public Lands Corps (Public Law 109-154), or related 
     partnerships with State, local, or nonprofit youth groups; 
     (3) small or micro-businesses; or (4) other entities that 
     will hire or train locally a significant percentage, defined 
     as 50 percent or more, of the project workforce to complete 
     such contracts: Provided further, That in implementing this 
     section, the Secretary shall develop written guidance to 
     field units to ensure accountability and consistent 
     application of the authorities provided herein: Provided 
     further, That funds appropriated under this heading may be 
     used to reimburse the United States Fish and Wildlife Service 
     and the National Marine Fisheries Service for the costs of 
     carrying out their responsibilities under the Endangered 
     Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.) to consult and 
     conference, as required by section 7 of such Act, in 
     connection with wildland fire management activities: Provided 
     further, That the Secretary of the Interior may use wildland 
     fire appropriations to enter into leases of real property 
     with local governments, at or below fair market value, to 
     construct capitalized improvements for fire facilities on 
     such leased properties, including but not limited to fire 
     guard stations, retardant stations, and other initial attack 
     and fire support facilities, and to make advance payments for 
     any such lease or for construction activity associated with 
     the lease: Provided further, That the Secretary of the 
     Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture may authorize the 
     transfer of funds appropriated for wildland fire management, 
     in an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000,000, between the 
     Departments when such transfers would facilitate and expedite 
     wildland fire management programs and projects: Provided 
     further, That funds provided for wildfire suppression shall 
     be available for support of Federal emergency response 
     actions: Provided further, That funds appropriated under this 
     heading shall be available for assistance to or through the 
     Department of State in connection with forest and rangeland 
     research, technical information, and assistance in foreign 
     countries, and, with the concurrence of the Secretary of 
     State, shall be available to support forestry, wildland fire 
     management, and related natural resource activities outside 
     the United States and its territories and possessions, 
     including technical assistance, education and training, and 
     cooperation with United States and international 
     organizations.

                    central hazardous materials fund

       For necessary expenses of the Department of the Interior 
     and any of its component offices and bureaus for the response 
     action, including associated activities, performed pursuant 
     to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, 
     and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.), $10,010,000, to 
     remain available until expended.

           Natural Resource Damage Assessment and Restoration

                natural resource damage assessment fund

       To conduct natural resource damage assessment, restoration 
     activities, and onshore oil spill preparedness by the 
     Department of the Interior necessary to carry out the 
     provisions of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
     Compensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9601 et

[[Page H6855]]

     seq.), the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 
     1251 et seq.), the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (33 U.S.C. 2701 
     et seq.), and 54 U.S.C. 100721 et seq., $7,568,000, to remain 
     available until expended.

                          working capital fund

       For the operation and maintenance of a departmental 
     financial and business management system, information 
     technology improvements of general benefit to the Department, 
     cybersecurity, and the consolidation of facilities and 
     operations throughout the Department, $65,388,000, to remain 
     available until expended: Provided, That none of the funds 
     appropriated in this Act or any other Act may be used to 
     establish reserves in the Working Capital Fund account other 
     than for accrued annual leave and depreciation of equipment 
     without prior approval of the Committees on Appropriations of 
     the House of Representatives and the Senate:Provided further, 
     That the Secretary may assess reasonable charges to State, 
     local and tribal government employees for training services 
     provided by the National Indian Program Training Center, 
     other than training related to Public Law 93-638: Provided 
     further, That the Secretary may lease or otherwise provide 
     space and related facilities, equipment or professional 
     services of the National Indian Program Training Center to 
     State, local and tribal government employees or persons or 
     organizations engaged in cultural, educational, or 
     recreational activities (as defined in section 3306(a) of 
     title 40, United States Code) at the prevailing rate for 
     similar space, facilities, equipment, or services in the 
     vicinity of the National Indian Program Training Center: 
     Provided further, That all funds received pursuant to the two 
     preceding provisos shall be credited to this account, shall 
     be available until expended, and shall be used by the 
     Secretary for necessary expenses of the National Indian 
     Program Training Center: Provided further, That the Secretary 
     may enter into grants and cooperative agreements to support 
     the Office of Natural Resource Revenue's collection and 
     disbursement of royalties, fees, and other mineral revenue 
     proceeds, as authorized by law.

                        administrative provision

       There is hereby authorized for acquisition from available 
     resources within the Working Capital Fund, aircraft which may 
     be obtained by donation, purchase or through available excess 
     surplus property: Provided, That existing aircraft being 
     replaced may be sold, with proceeds derived or trade-in value 
     used to offset the purchase price for the replacement 
     aircraft.

                  office of natural resources revenue

       For necessary expenses for management of the collection and 
     disbursement of royalties, fees, and other mineral revenue 
     proceeds, and for grants and cooperative agreements, as 
     authorized by law, $137,757,000, to remain available until 
     September 30, 2019; of which $41,727,000 shall remain 
     available until expended for the purpose of mineral revenue 
     management activities: Provided, That notwithstanding any 
     other provision of law, $15,000 shall be available for 
     refunds of overpayments in connection with certain Indian 
     leases in which the Secretary concurred with the claimed 
     refund due, to pay amounts owed to Indian allottees or 
     tribes, or to correct prior unrecoverable erroneous payments.

                       payments in lieu of taxes

       For necessary expenses for payments authorized by chapter 
     69 of title 31, United States Code, $465,000,000 shall be 
     available for fiscal year 2018.

             General Provisions, Department of the Interior

                     (including transfers of funds)

               emergency transfer authority--intra-bureau

       Sec. 101.  Appropriations made in this title shall be 
     available for expenditure or transfer (within each bureau or 
     office), with the approval of the Secretary, for the 
     emergency reconstruction, replacement, or repair of aircraft, 
     buildings, utilities, or other facilities or equipment 
     damaged or destroyed by fire, flood, storm, or other 
     unavoidable causes: Provided, That no funds shall be made 
     available under this authority until funds specifically made 
     available to the Department of the Interior for emergencies 
     shall have been exhausted: Provided further, That all funds 
     used pursuant to this section must be replenished by a 
     supplemental appropriation, which must be requested as 
     promptly as possible.

             emergency transfer authority--department-wide

       Sec. 102.  The Secretary may authorize the expenditure or 
     transfer of any no year appropriation in this title, in 
     addition to the amounts included in the budget programs of 
     the several agencies, for the suppression or emergency 
     prevention of wildland fires on or threatening lands under 
     the jurisdiction of the Department of the Interior; for the 
     emergency rehabilitation of burned-over lands under its 
     jurisdiction; for emergency actions related to potential or 
     actual earthquakes, floods, volcanoes, storms, or other 
     unavoidable causes; for contingency planning subsequent to 
     actual oil spills; for response and natural resource damage 
     assessment activities related to actual oil spills or 
     releases of hazardous substances into the environment; for 
     the prevention, suppression, and control of actual or 
     potential grasshopper and Mormon cricket outbreaks on lands 
     under the jurisdiction of the Secretary, pursuant to the 
     authority in section 417(b) of Public Law 106-224 (7 U.S.C. 
     7717(b)); for emergency reclamation projects under section 
     410 of Public Law 95-87; and shall transfer, from any no year 
     funds available to the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation 
     and Enforcement, such funds as may be necessary to permit 
     assumption of regulatory authority in the event a primacy 
     State is not carrying out the regulatory provisions of the 
     Surface Mining Act: Provided, That appropriations made in 
     this title for wildland fire operations shall be available 
     for the payment of obligations incurred during the preceding 
     fiscal year, and for reimbursement to other Federal agencies 
     for destruction of vehicles, aircraft, or other equipment in 
     connection with their use for wildland fire operations, with 
     such reimbursement to be credited to appropriations currently 
     available at the time of receipt thereof: Provided further, 
     That for wildland fire operations, no funds shall be made 
     available under this authority until the Secretary determines 
     that funds appropriated for ``wildland fire suppression'' 
     shall be exhausted within 30 days: Provided further, That all 
     funds used pursuant to this section must be replenished by a 
     supplemental appropriation, which must be requested as 
     promptly as possible: Provided further, That such 
     replenishment funds shall be used to reimburse, on a pro rata 
     basis, accounts from which emergency funds were transferred.

                        authorized use of funds

       Sec. 103.  Appropriations made to the Department of the 
     Interior in this title shall be available for services as 
     authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, 
     when authorized by the Secretary, in total amount not to 
     exceed $500,000; purchase and replacement of motor vehicles, 
     including specially equipped law enforcement vehicles; hire, 
     maintenance, and operation of aircraft; hire of passenger 
     motor vehicles; purchase of reprints; payment for telephone 
     service in private residences in the field, when authorized 
     under regulations approved by the Secretary; and the payment 
     of dues, when authorized by the Secretary, for library 
     membership in societies or associations which issue 
     publications to members only or at a price to members lower 
     than to subscribers who are not members.

            authorized use of funds, indian trust management

       Sec. 104.  Appropriations made in this Act under the 
     headings Bureau of Indian Affairs and Bureau of Indian 
     Education, and Office of the Special Trustee for American 
     Indians and any unobligated balances from prior 
     appropriations Acts made under the same headings shall be 
     available for expenditure or transfer for Indian trust 
     management and reform activities. Total funding for 
     historical accounting activities shall not exceed amounts 
     specifically designated in this Act for such purpose.

           redistribution of funds, bureau of indian affairs

       Sec. 105.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
     Secretary of the Interior is authorized to redistribute any 
     Tribal Priority Allocation funds, including tribal base 
     funds, to alleviate tribal funding inequities by transferring 
     funds to address identified, unmet needs, dual enrollment, 
     overlapping service areas or inaccurate distribution 
     methodologies. No tribe shall receive a reduction in Tribal 
     Priority Allocation funds of more than 10 percent in fiscal 
     year 2018. Under circumstances of dual enrollment, 
     overlapping service areas or inaccurate distribution 
     methodologies, the 10 percent limitation does not apply.

                 ellis, governors, and liberty islands

       Sec. 106.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
     Secretary of the Interior is authorized to acquire lands, 
     waters, or interests therein including the use of all or part 
     of any pier, dock, or landing within the State of New York 
     and the State of New Jersey, for the purpose of operating and 
     maintaining facilities in the support of transportation and 
     accommodation of visitors to Ellis, Governors, and Liberty 
     Islands, and of other program and administrative activities, 
     by donation or with appropriated funds, including franchise 
     fees (and other monetary consideration), or by exchange; and 
     the Secretary is authorized to negotiate and enter into 
     leases, subleases, concession contracts or other agreements 
     for the use of such facilities on such terms and conditions 
     as the Secretary may determine reasonable.

                outer continental shelf inspection fees

       Sec. 107. (a) In fiscal year 2018, the Secretary shall 
     collect a nonrefundable inspection fee, which shall be 
     deposited in the ``Offshore Safety and Environmental 
     Enforcement'' account, from the designated operator for 
     facilities subject to inspection under 43 U.S.C. 1348(c).
       (b) Annual fees shall be collected for facilities that are 
     above the waterline, excluding drilling rigs, and are in 
     place at the start of the fiscal year. Fees for fiscal year 
     2018 shall be:
       (1) $10,500 for facilities with no wells, but with 
     processing equipment or gathering lines;
       (2) $17,000 for facilities with 1 to 10 wells, with any 
     combination of active or inactive wells; and
       (3) $31,500 for facilities with more than 10 wells, with 
     any combination of active or inactive wells.
       (c) Fees for drilling rigs shall be assessed for all 
     inspections completed in fiscal year 2018. Fees for fiscal 
     year 2018 shall be:
       (1) $30,500 per inspection for rigs operating in water 
     depths of 500 feet or more; and
       (2) $16,700 per inspection for rigs operating in water 
     depths of less than 500 feet.
       (d) The Secretary shall bill designated operators under 
     subsection (b) within 60 days, with payment required within 
     30 days of billing. The Secretary shall bill designated 
     operators under subsection (c) within 30 days of the end of 
     the month in which the inspection occurred, with payment 
     required within 30 days of billing.

     bureau of ocean energy management, regulation and enforcement 
                             reorganization

       Sec. 108.  The Secretary of the Interior, in order to 
     implement a reorganization of the Bureau of Ocean Energy 
     Management, Regulation

[[Page H6856]]

     and Enforcement, may transfer funds among and between the 
     successor offices and bureaus affected by the reorganization 
     only in conformance with the reprogramming guidelines 
     described in the report accompanying this Act.

  contracts and agreements for wild horse and burro holding facilities

       Sec. 109.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, 
     the Secretary of the Interior may enter into multiyear 
     cooperative agreements with nonprofit organizations and other 
     appropriate entities, and may enter into multiyear contracts 
     in accordance with the provisions of section 3903 of title 
     41, United States Code (except that the 5-year term 
     restriction in subsection (a) shall not apply), for the long-
     term care and maintenance of excess wild free roaming horses 
     and burros by such organizations or entities on private land. 
     Such cooperative agreements and contracts may not exceed 10 
     years, subject to renewal at the discretion of the Secretary.

                       mass marking of salmonids

       Sec. 110.  The United States Fish and Wildlife Service 
     shall, in carrying out its responsibilities to protect 
     threatened and endangered species of salmon, implement a 
     system of mass marking of salmonid stocks, intended for 
     harvest, that are released from federally operated or 
     federally financed hatcheries including but not limited to 
     fish releases of coho, chinook, and steelhead species. Marked 
     fish must have a visible mark that can be readily identified 
     by commercial and recreational fishers.

                  exhaustion of administrative review

       Sec. 111.  Paragraph (1) of section 122(a) of division E of 
     Public Law 112-74 (125 Stat. 1013) is amended by striking 
     ``fiscal years 2012 through 2020,'' in the first sentence and 
     inserting ``fiscal year 2012 and each fiscal year 
     thereafter,''.

              contracts and agreements with indian affairs

       Sec. 112.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     during fiscal year 2018, in carrying out work involving 
     cooperation with State, local, and tribal governments or any 
     political subdivision thereof, Indian Affairs may record 
     obligations against accounts receivable from any such 
     entities, except that total obligations at the end of the 
     fiscal year shall not exceed total budgetary resources 
     available at the end of the fiscal year.

                              sage-grouse

       Sec. 113.  None of the funds made available by this or any 
     other Act may be used by the Secretary of the Interior to 
     write or issue pursuant to section 4 of the Endangered 
     Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1533)--
       (1) a proposed rule for greater sage-grouse (Centrocercus 
     urophasianus);
       (2) a proposed rule for the Columbia basin distinct 
     population segment of greater sage-grouse.

                   humane transfer of excess animals

       Sec. 114.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
     Secretary of the Interior may transfer excess wild horses or 
     burros that have been removed from the public lands to other 
     Federal, State, and local government agencies for use as work 
     animals: Provided, That the Secretary may make any such 
     transfer immediately upon request of such Federal, State, or 
     local government agency: Provided further, That any excess 
     animal transferred under this provision shall lose its status 
     as a wild free-roaming horse or burro as defined in the Wild 
     Free-Roaming Horses and Burros Act: Provided further, That 
     any Federal, State, or local government agency receiving 
     excess wild horses or burros as authorized in this section 
     shall not: destroy the horses or burros in a way that results 
     in their destruction into commercial products; sell or 
     otherwise transfer the horses or burros in a way that results 
     in their destruction for processing into commercial products; 
     or euthanize the horses or burros except upon the 
     recommendation of a licensed veterinarian, in cases of severe 
     injury, illness, or advanced age.

      prohibition on use of funds for certain historic designation

       Sec. 115.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to make a determination of eligibility or to list the 
     Trestles Historic District, San Diego County, California, on 
     the National Register of Historic Places.

                        reissuance of final rules

       Sec. 116.  Before the end of the 60-day period beginning on 
     the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the 
     Interior shall reissue the final rule published on December 
     28, 2011 (76 Fed. Reg. 81666 et seq.) and the final rule 
     published on September 10, 2012 (77 Fed. Reg. 55530 et seq.), 
     without regard to any other provision of statute or 
     regulation that applies to issuance of such rules. Such 
     reissuances (including this section) shall not be subject to 
     judicial review.

                         gray wolves range-wide

       Sec. 117.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used by the Secretary of the Interior to treat any gray 
     wolf in any of the 48 contiguous States or the District of 
     Columbia as an endangered species or threatened species under 
     the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.).

                                TITLE II

                    ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY

                         Science and Technology

                    (including Rescission of Funds)

       For science and technology, including research and 
     development activities, which shall include research and 
     development activities under the Comprehensive Environmental 
     Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980; necessary 
     expenses for personnel and related costs and travel expenses; 
     procurement of laboratory equipment and supplies; and other 
     operating expenses in support of research and development, 
     $629,238,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019: 
     Provided, That of the funds included under this heading, 
     $4,100,000 shall be for Research: National Priorities as 
     specified in the report accompanying this Act: Provided 
     further, That of the unobligated balances from appropriations 
     made available under this heading, $27,000,000 are 
     permanently rescinded.

                 Environmental Programs and Management

                    (including Rescission of Funds)

       For environmental programs and management, including 
     necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for personnel 
     and related costs and travel expenses; hire of passenger 
     motor vehicles; hire, maintenance, and operation of aircraft; 
     purchase of reprints; library memberships in societies or 
     associations which issue publications to members only or at a 
     price to members lower than to subscribers who are not 
     members; administrative costs of the brownfields program 
     under the Small Business Liability Relief and Brownfields 
     Revitalization Act of 2002; and not to exceed $19,000 for 
     official reception and representation expenses, 
     $2,398,840,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019: 
     Provided, That of the amounts provided under this heading, 
     the Chemical Risk Review and Reduction program project shall 
     be allocated for this fiscal year, excluding the amount of 
     any fees made available, not less than the amount of 
     appropriations for that program project for fiscal year 2014: 
     Provided further, That of the funds included under this 
     heading, $12,700,000 shall be for Environmental Protection: 
     National Priorities as specified in the report accompanying 
     this Act: Provided further, That of the funds included under 
     this heading, $402,000,000 shall be for Geographic Programs 
     specified in the report accompanying this Act: Provided 
     further, That of the unobligated balances from appropriations 
     made available under this heading, $41,000,000 are 
     permanently rescinded.

            Hazardous Waste Electronic Manifest System Fund

       For necessary expenses to carry out section 3024 of the 
     Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6939g), including the 
     development, operation, maintenance, and upgrading of the 
     hazardous waste electronic manifest system established by 
     such section, $3,674,000, to remain available until September 
     30, 2020: Provided, That the sum herein appropriated from the 
     general fund shall be reduced as offsetting collections under 
     such section 3024 are received during fiscal year 2018, which 
     shall remain available until expended and be used for 
     necessary expenses in this appropriation, so as to result in 
     a final fiscal year 2018 appropriation from the general fund 
     estimated at not more than $0: Provided further, That to the 
     extent such offsetting collections received in fiscal year 
     2018 exceed $3,674,000, those excess amounts shall remain 
     available until expended and be used for necessary expenses 
     in this appropriation.

                      Office of Inspector General

       For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
     in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act 
     of 1978, $40,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2019.

                        Buildings and Facilities

       For construction, repair, improvement, extension, 
     alteration, and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities of, 
     or for use by, the Environmental Protection Agency, 
     $39,553,000, to remain available until expended.

                     Hazardous Substance Superfund

                     (including transfers of funds)

       For necessary expenses to carry out the Comprehensive 
     Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 
     1980 (CERCLA), including sections 111(c)(3), (c)(5), (c)(6), 
     and (e)(4) (42 U.S.C. 9611) $1,116,374,000, to remain 
     available until expended, consisting of such sums as are 
     available in the Trust Fund on September 30, 2017, as 
     authorized by section 517(a) of the Superfund Amendments and 
     Reauthorization Act of 1986 (SARA) and up to $1,116,374,000 
     as a payment from general revenues to the Hazardous Substance 
     Superfund for purposes as authorized by section 517(b) of 
     SARA: Provided, That funds appropriated under this heading 
     may be allocated to other Federal agencies in accordance with 
     section 111(a) of CERCLA: Provided further, That of the funds 
     appropriated under this heading, $7,778,000 shall be paid to 
     the ``Office of Inspector General'' appropriation to remain 
     available until September 30, 2019, and $15,496,000 shall be 
     paid to the ``Science and Technology'' appropriation to 
     remain available until September 30, 2019.

          Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund Program

       For necessary expenses to carry out leaking underground 
     storage tank cleanup activities authorized by subtitle I of 
     the Solid Waste Disposal Act, $91,874,000, to remain 
     available until expended, of which $66,505,000 shall be for 
     carrying out leaking underground storage tank cleanup 
     activities authorized by section 9003(h) of the Solid Waste 
     Disposal Act; $25,369,000 shall be for carrying out the other 
     provisions of the Solid Waste Disposal Act specified in 
     section 9508(c) of the Internal Revenue Code: Provided, That 
     the Administrator is authorized to use appropriations made 
     available under this heading to implement section 9013 of the 
     Solid Waste Disposal Act to provide financial assistance to 
     federally recognized Indian tribes for the development and 
     implementation of programs to manage underground storage 
     tanks.

                       Inland Oil Spill Programs

       For expenses necessary to carry out the Environmental 
     Protection Agency's responsibilities under the Oil Pollution 
     Act of 1990, $18,047,000, to be derived from the Oil Spill 
     Liability trust fund, to remain available until expended.

[[Page H6857]]

  


                   State and Tribal Assistance Grants

       For environmental programs and infrastructure assistance, 
     including capitalization grants for State revolving funds and 
     performance partnership grants, $3,288,161,000, to remain 
     available until expended, of which--
       (1) $1,143,887,000 shall be for making capitalization 
     grants for the Clean Water State Revolving Funds under title 
     VI of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act; and of which 
     $863,233,000 shall be for making capitalization grants for 
     the Drinking Water State Revolving Funds under section 1452 
     of the Safe Drinking Water Act: Provided, That for fiscal 
     year 2017, funds made available under this title to each 
     State for Clean Water State Revolving Fund capitalization 
     grants and for Drinking Water State Revolving Fund 
     capitalization grants may, at the discretion of each State, 
     be used for projects to address green infrastructure, water 
     or energy efficiency improvements, or other environmentally 
     innovative activities: Provided further, That notwithstanding 
     section 603(d)(7) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, 
     the limitation on the amounts in a State water pollution 
     control revolving fund that may be used by a State to 
     administer the fund shall not apply to amounts included as 
     principal in loans made by such fund in fiscal year 2018 and 
     prior years where such amounts represent costs of 
     administering the fund to the extent that such amounts are or 
     were deemed reasonable by the Administrator, accounted for 
     separately from other assets in the fund, and used for 
     eligible purposes of the fund, including administration: 
     Provided further, That for fiscal year 2018, notwithstanding 
     the provisions of subsections (g)(1), (h), and (l) of section 
     201 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, grants made 
     under title II of such Act for American Samoa, Guam, the 
     commonwealth of the Northern Marianas, the United States 
     Virgin Islands, and the District of Columbia may also be made 
     for the purpose of providing assistance: (1) solely for 
     facility plans, design activities, or plans, specifications, 
     and estimates for any proposed project for the construction 
     of treatment works; and (2) for the construction, repair, or 
     replacement of privately owned treatment works serving one or 
     more principal residences or small commercial establishments: 
     Provided further, That for fiscal year 2018, notwithstanding 
     the provisions of such subsections (g)(1), (h), and (l) of 
     section 201 and section 518(c) of the Federal Water Pollution 
     Control Act, funds reserved by the Administrator for grants 
     under section 518(c) of the Federal Water Pollution Control 
     Act may also be used to provide assistance: (1) solely for 
     facility plans, design activities, or plans, specifications, 
     and estimates for any proposed project for the construction 
     of treatment works; and (2) for the construction, repair, or 
     replacement of privately owned treatment works serving one or 
     more principal residences or small commercial establishments: 
     Provided further, That for fiscal year 2018, notwithstanding 
     any provision of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act and 
     regulations issued pursuant thereof, up to a total of 
     $2,000,000 of the funds reserved by the Administrator for 
     grants under section 518(c) of such Act may also be used for 
     grants for training, technical assistance, and educational 
     programs relating to the operation and management of the 
     treatment works specified in section 518(c) of such Act: 
     Provided further, That for fiscal year 2018, funds reserved 
     under section 518(c) of such Act shall be available for 
     grants only to Indian tribes, as defined in section 518(h) of 
     such Act and former Indian reservations in Oklahoma (as 
     determined by the Secretary of the Interior) and Native 
     Villages as defined in Public Law 92-203: Provided further, 
     That for fiscal year 2018, notwithstanding the limitation on 
     amounts in section 518(c) of the Federal Water Pollution 
     Control Act, up to a total of 2 percent of the funds 
     appropriated, or $30,000,000, whichever is greater, and 
     notwithstanding the limitation on amounts in section 1452(i) 
     of the Safe Drinking Water Act, up to a total of 2 percent of 
     the funds appropriated, or $20,000,000, whichever is greater, 
     for State Revolving Funds under such Acts may be reserved by 
     the Administrator for grants under section 518(c) and section 
     1452(i) of such Acts: Provided further, That for fiscal year 
     2018, notwithstanding the amounts specified in section 205(c) 
     of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, up to 1.5 percent 
     of the aggregate funds appropriated for the Clean Water State 
     Revolving Fund program under the Act less any sums reserved 
     under section 518(c) of the Act, may be reserved by the 
     Administrator for grants made under title II of the Federal 
     Water Pollution Control Act for American Samoa, Guam, the 
     Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas, and United States 
     Virgin Islands: Provided further, That for fiscal year 2018, 
     notwithstanding the limitations on amounts specified in 
     section 1452(j) of the Safe Drinking Water Act, up to 1.5 
     percent of the funds appropriated for the Drinking Water 
     State Revolving Fund programs under the Safe Drinking Water 
     Act may be reserved by the Administrator for grants made 
     under section 1452(j) of the Safe Drinking Water Act: 
     Provided further, That 10 percent of the funds made available 
     under this title to each State for Clean Water State 
     Revolving Fund capitalization grants and 20 percent of the 
     funds made available under this title to each State for 
     Drinking Water State Revolving Fund capitalization grants 
     shall be used by the State to provide additional subsidy to 
     eligible recipients in the form of forgiveness of principal, 
     negative interest loans, or grants (or any combination of 
     these), and shall be so used by the State only where such 
     funds are provided as initial financing for an eligible 
     recipient or to buy, refinance, or restructure the debt 
     obligations of eligible recipients only where such debt was 
     incurred on or after the date of enactment of this Act;
       (2) $10,000,000 shall be for grants to the State of Alaska 
     to address drinking water and wastewater infrastructure needs 
     of rural and Alaska Native Villages: Provided, That of these 
     funds: (A) the State of Alaska shall provide a match of 25 
     percent; (B) no more than 5 percent of the funds may be used 
     for administrative and overhead expenses; and (C) the State 
     of Alaska shall make awards consistent with the Statewide 
     priority list established in conjunction with the Agency and 
     the U.S. Department of Agriculture for all water, sewer, 
     waste disposal, and similar projects carried out by the State 
     of Alaska that are funded under section 221 of the Federal 
     Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1301) or the 
     Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1921 et 
     seq.) which shall allocate not less than 25 percent of the 
     funds provided for projects in regional hub communities;
       (3) $90,000,000 shall be to carry out section 104(k) of the 
     Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
     Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), including grants, interagency 
     agreements, and associated program support costs: Provided, 
     That not more than 25 percent of the amount appropriated to 
     carry out section 104(k) of CERCLA shall be used for site 
     characterization, assessment, and remediation of facilities 
     described in section 101(39)(D)(ii)(II) of CERCLA: Provided 
     further, That at least 10 percent shall be allocated for 
     assistance in persistent poverty counties: Provided further, 
     That for purposes of this section, the term ``persistent 
     poverty counties'' means any county that has had 20 percent 
     or more of its population living in poverty over the past 30 
     years, as measured by the 1990 and 2000 decennial censuses 
     and the most recent Small Area Income and Poverty Estimates;
       (4) $75,000,000 shall be for grants under title VII, 
     subtitle G of the Energy Policy Act of 2005;
       (5) $40,000,000 shall be for targeted airshed grants in 
     accordance with the terms and conditions in the report 
     accompanying this Act; and
       (6) $1,066,041,000 shall be for grants, including 
     associated program support costs, to States, federally 
     recognized tribes, interstate agencies, tribal consortia, and 
     air pollution control agencies for multi-media or single 
     media pollution prevention, control and abatement and related 
     activities, including activities pursuant to the provisions 
     set forth under this heading in Public Law 104-134, and for 
     making grants under section 103 of the Clean Air Act for 
     particulate matter monitoring and data collection activities 
     subject to terms and conditions specified by the 
     Administrator, of which: $47,745,000 shall be for carrying 
     out section 128 of CERCLA; $9,646,000 shall be for 
     Environmental Information Exchange Network grants, including 
     associated program support costs; $1,498,000 shall be for 
     grants to States under section 2007(f)(2) of the Solid Waste 
     Disposal Act, which shall be in addition to funds 
     appropriated under the heading ``Leaking Underground Storage 
     Tank Trust Fund Program'' to carry out the provisions of the 
     Solid Waste Disposal Act specified in section 9508(c) of the 
     Internal Revenue Code other than section 9003(h) of the Solid 
     Waste Disposal Act; $17,848,000 of the funds available for 
     grants under section 106 of the Federal Water Pollution 
     Control Act shall be for State participation in national- and 
     State-level statistical surveys of water resources and 
     enhancements to State monitoring programs.

      Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Program Account

       For the cost of direct loans and for the cost of guaranteed 
     loans, as authorized by the Water Infrastructure Finance and 
     Innovation Act of 2014, $25,000,000, to remain available 
     until expended: Provided, That such costs, including the cost 
     of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 
     of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, 
     That these funds are available to subsidize gross obligations 
     for the principal amount of direct loans, including 
     capitalized interest, and total loan principal, including 
     capitalized interest, any part of which is to be guaranteed, 
     not to exceed $3,049,000,000.
       In addition, fees authorized to be collected pursuant to 
     sections 5029 and 5030 of the Water Infrastructure Finance 
     and Innovation Act of 2014 shall be deposited in this 
     account, to remain available until expended.
       In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the 
     direct and guaranteed loan programs, notwithstanding section 
     5033 of the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act 
     of 2014, $5,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2019.

       Administrative Provisions--Environmental Protection Agency

             (including transfers and rescission of funds)

       For fiscal year 2018, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 6303(1) and 
     6305(1), the Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
     Agency, in carrying out the Agency's function to implement 
     directly Federal environmental programs required or 
     authorized by law in the absence of an acceptable tribal 
     program, may award cooperative agreements to federally 
     recognized Indian tribes or Intertribal consortia, if 
     authorized by their member tribes, to assist the 
     Administrator in implementing Federal environmental programs 
     for Indian tribes required or authorized by law, except that 
     no such cooperative agreements may be awarded from funds 
     designated for State financial assistance agreements.
       The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency is 
     authorized to collect and obligate pesticide registration 
     service fees in accordance with section 33 of the Federal 
     Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, as amended by 
     Public Law 112-177, the Pesticide Registration Improvement 
     Extension Act of 2012.
       Notwithstanding section 33(d)(2) of the Federal 
     Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA) (7 U.S.C. 
     136w-8(d)(2)), the Administrator of the Environmental 
     Protection Agency may assess fees under section 33 of FIFRA 
     (7 U.S.C. 136w-8) for fiscal year 2018.

[[Page H6858]]

       Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in addition to 
     the activities specified in section 33 of the Federal 
     Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA) (7 U.S.C. 
     136w-8), fees collected in this and prior fiscal years under 
     such section shall be available for the following activities 
     as they relate to pesticide licensing: processing and review 
     of data submitted in association with a registration, 
     information submitted pursuant to section 6(a)(2) of FIFRA, 
     supplemental distributor labels, transfers of registrations 
     and data compensation rights, additional uses registered by 
     States under section 24(c) of FIFRA, data compensation 
     petitions, review of minor amendments, and notifications; 
     laboratory support and audits; administrative support; 
     development of policy and guidance; rulemaking support; 
     information collection activities; and the portions of 
     salaries related to work in these areas.
       The Administrator is authorized to transfer up to 
     $300,000,000 of the funds appropriated for the Great Lakes 
     Restoration Initiative under the heading ``Environmental 
     Programs and Management'' to the head of any Federal 
     department or agency, with the concurrence of such head, to 
     carry out activities that would support the Great Lakes 
     Restoration Initiative and Great Lakes Water Quality 
     Agreement programs, projects, or activities; to enter into an 
     interagency agreement with the head of such Federal 
     department or agency to carry out these activities; and to 
     make grants to governmental entities, nonprofit 
     organizations, institutions, and individuals for planning, 
     research, monitoring, outreach, and implementation in 
     furtherance of the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative and the 
     Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement.
       The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency is 
     authorized to collect and obligate fees in accordance with 
     section 26(b) of the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 
     2625(b)) for fiscal year 2018.
       The Science and Technology, Environmental Programs and 
     Management, Office of Inspector General, Hazardous Substance 
     Superfund, and Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund 
     Program Accounts, are available for the construction, 
     alteration, repair, rehabilitation, and renovation of 
     facilities, provided that the cost does not exceed $150,000 
     per project.
       For fiscal year 2018, and notwithstanding section 518(f) of 
     the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1377(f)), 
     the Administrator is authorized to use the amounts 
     appropriated for any fiscal year under section 319 of the Act 
     to make grants to Indian tribes pursuant to sections 319(h) 
     and 518(e) of that Act.
       Of the unobligated balances available for the ``State and 
     Tribal Assistance Grants'' account, $60,000,000 are 
     permanently rescinded: Provided, That no amounts may be 
     rescinded from amounts that were designated by the Congress 
     as an emergency requirement pursuant to the Concurrent 
     Resolution on the Budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985.
       Notwithstanding the limitations on amounts in section 
     320(i)(2)(B) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, not 
     less than $1,500,000 of the funds made available under this 
     title for the National Estuary Program shall be for making 
     competitive awards described in section 320(g)(4).

                               TITLE III

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                       DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                             Forest Service

  office of the under secretary for natural resources and environment

       For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary 
     for Natural Resources and Environment, $875,000.

                     forest and rangeland research

       For necessary expenses of forest and rangeland research as 
     authorized by law, $278,368,000, to remain available through 
     September 30, 2021: Provided, That of the funds provided, 
     $75,037,000 is for the forest inventory and analysis program.

                       state and private forestry

       For necessary expenses of cooperating with and providing 
     technical and financial assistance to States, territories, 
     possessions, and others, and for forest health management and 
     conducting an international program as authorized, 
     $198,710,000, to remain available through September 30, 2021, 
     as authorized by law; of which $36,184,000 is to be derived 
     from the Land and Water Conservation Fund to be used for the 
     Forest Legacy Program, to remain available until expended.

                         national forest system

       For necessary expenses of the Forest Service, not otherwise 
     provided for, for management, protection, improvement, and 
     utilization of the National Forest System, and for hazardous 
     fuels management on or adjacent to such lands as authorized 
     by law, $1,885,827,000, to remain available through September 
     30, 2021: Provided, That of the funds provided, $370,305,000 
     shall be for forest products: Provided further, That of the 
     funds provided, $392,500,000 shall be for hazardous fuels 
     management activities, of which not to exceed $15,000,000 may 
     be used to make grants, using any authorities available to 
     the Forest Service under the ``State and Private Forestry'' 
     appropriation, for the purpose of creating incentives for 
     increased use of biomass from National Forest System lands: 
     Provided further, That of the funds provided, up to 
     $15,000,000 may be used by the Secretary of Agriculture to 
     enter into procurement contracts or cooperative agreements or 
     to issue grants for hazardous fuels management activities, 
     and for training or monitoring associated with such hazardous 
     fuels management activities on Federal land, or on non-
     Federal land if the Secretary determines such activities 
     benefit resources on Federal land. Provided further, That 
     notwithstanding section 33 of the Bankhead-Jones Farm Tenant 
     Act (7 U.S.C. 1012), the Secretary of Agriculture, in 
     calculating a fee for grazing on a National Grassland, may 
     provide a credit of up to 50 percent of the calculated fee to 
     a Grazing Association or direct permittee for a conservation 
     practice approved by the Secretary in advance of the fiscal 
     year in which the cost of the conservation practice is 
     incurred. And, that the amount credited shall remain 
     available to the Grazing Association or the direct permittee, 
     as appropriate, in the fiscal year in which the credit is 
     made and each fiscal year thereafter for use on the project 
     for conservation practices approved by the Secretary.
       In addition, $4,500,000, to remain available through 
     September 30, 2021, from communication site rental fees 
     established by the Forest Service for the cost of 
     administering communication site activities.

                  capital improvement and maintenance

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For necessary expenses of the Forest Service, not otherwise 
     provided for, $354,733,000, to remain available through 
     September 30, 2021, for construction, capital improvement, 
     maintenance and acquisition of buildings and other facilities 
     and infrastructure; and for construction, reconstruction, 
     decommissioning of roads that are no longer needed, including 
     unauthorized roads that are not part of the transportation 
     system, and maintenance of forest roads and trails by the 
     Forest Service as authorized by 16 U.S.C. 532-538 and 23 
     U.S.C. 101 and 205: Provided, That funds becoming available 
     in fiscal year 2018 under the Act of March 4, 1913 (16 U.S.C. 
     501) shall be transferred to the General Fund of the Treasury 
     and shall not be available for transfer or obligation for any 
     other purpose unless the funds are appropriated.

                            land acquisition

       For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of 
     chapter 2003 of title 54, United States Code, including 
     administrative expenses, and for acquisition of land or 
     waters, or interest therein, in accordance with statutory 
     authority applicable to the Forest Service, $25,000,000, to 
     be derived from the Land and Water Conservation Fund and to 
     remain available until expended.

         acquisition of lands for national forests special acts

       For acquisition of lands within the exterior boundaries of 
     the Cache, Uinta, and Wasatch National Forests, Utah; the 
     Toiyabe National Forest, Nevada; and the Angeles, San 
     Bernardino, Sequoia, and Cleveland National Forests, 
     California; and the Ozark-St. Francis and Ouachita National 
     Forests, Arkansas; as authorized by law, $850,000, to be 
     derived from forest receipts.

            acquisition of lands to complete land exchanges

       For acquisition of lands, such sums, to be derived from 
     funds deposited by State, county, or municipal governments, 
     public school districts, or other public school authorities, 
     and for authorized expenditures from funds deposited by non-
     Federal parties pursuant to the Sisk Act (16 U.S.C. 484a), 
     pursuant to the Land Sale and Exchange Acts (16 U.S.C. 516-
     617a, 555a; Public Law 96-586; Public Law 76-589; and Public 
     Law 78-310), to remain available until expended.

                         range betterment fund

       For necessary expenses of range rehabilitation, protection, 
     and improvement, 50 percent of all moneys received during the 
     prior fiscal year, as fees for grazing domestic livestock on 
     lands in National Forests in the 16 Western States, pursuant 
     to section 401(b)(1) of the Federal Land Policy and 
     Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1751(b)(1)), to remain 
     available through September 30, 2021, of which not to exceed 
     6 percent shall be available for administrative expenses 
     associated with on-the-ground range rehabilitation, 
     protection, and improvements.

    gifts, donations and bequests for forest and rangeland research

       For expenses authorized by section 4(b) of the Forest and 
     Rangeland Renewable Resources Research Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 
     1643(b)), $45,000, to remain available through September 30, 
     2021, to be derived from the fund established pursuant to 
     such Act.

        management of national forest lands for subsistence uses

       For necessary expenses of the Forest Service to manage 
     Federal lands in Alaska for subsistence uses under title VIII 
     of the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (16 
     U.S.C. 3111 et seq.), $2,225,000, to remain available through 
     September 30, 2021.

                        wildland fire management

                     (including transfers of funds)

       For necessary expenses for forest fire presuppression 
     activities on National Forest System lands, for emergency 
     wildland fire suppression on or adjacent to such lands or 
     other lands under fire protection agreement, emergency 
     rehabilitation of burned-over National Forest System lands 
     and water, and for State and volunteer fire assistance, 
     $2,506,357,000, to remain available through September 30, 
     2021: Provided, That such funds including unobligated 
     balances under this heading, are available for repayment of 
     advances from other appropriations accounts previously 
     transferred for such purposes: Provided further, That any 
     unobligated funds appropriated in a previous fiscal year for 
     hazardous fuels management may be transferred to the 
     ``National Forest System'' account: Provided further, That 
     such funds shall be available to reimburse State and other 
     cooperating entities for services provided in response to 
     wildfire and other emergencies or disasters to the extent 
     such reimbursements by the

[[Page H6859]]

     Forest Service for non-fire emergencies are fully repaid by 
     the responsible emergency management agency: Provided 
     further, That of the funds provided, $19,290,000 is for 
     research activities and to make competitive research grants 
     pursuant to the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources 
     Research Act, (16 U.S.C. 1641 et seq.), $76,011,000 is for 
     State fire assistance, and $14,618,000 is for volunteer fire 
     assistance under section 10 of the Cooperative Forestry 
     Assistance Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2106): Provided further, 
     That amounts in this paragraph may be transferred to the 
     ``Forest and Rangeland Research'' account to fund forest and 
     rangeland research: Provided further, That the costs of 
     implementing any cooperative agreement between the Federal 
     Government and any non-Federal entity may be shared, as 
     mutually agreed on by the affected parties: Provided further, 
     That funds made available to implement the Community Forest 
     Restoration Act, Public Law 106-393, title VI, shall be 
     available for use on non-Federal lands in accordance with 
     authorities made available to the Forest Service under the 
     ``State and Private Forestry'' appropriation: Provided 
     further, That the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary 
     of Agriculture may authorize the transfer of funds 
     appropriated for wildland fire management, in an aggregate 
     amount not to exceed $50,000,000, between the Departments 
     when such transfers would facilitate and expedite wildland 
     fire management programs and projects: Provided further, That 
     funds designated for wildfire suppression, shall be assessed 
     for cost pools on the same basis as such assessments are 
     calculated against other agency programs.

               administrative provisions--forest service

                     (including transfers of funds)

       Appropriations to the Forest Service for the current fiscal 
     year shall be available for: (1) purchase of passenger motor 
     vehicles; acquisition of passenger motor vehicles from excess 
     sources, and hire of such vehicles; purchase, lease, 
     operation, maintenance, and acquisition of aircraft to 
     maintain the operable fleet for use in Forest Service 
     wildland fire programs and other Forest Service programs; 
     notwithstanding other provisions of law, existing aircraft 
     being replaced may be sold, with proceeds derived or trade-in 
     value used to offset the purchase price for the replacement 
     aircraft; (2) services pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2225, and not to 
     exceed $100,000 for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109; (3) 
     purchase, erection, and alteration of buildings and other 
     public improvements (7 U.S.C. 2250); (4) acquisition of land, 
     waters, and interests therein pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 428a; (5) 
     for expenses pursuant to the Volunteers in the National 
     Forest Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 558a, 558d, and 558a note); (6) 
     the cost of uniforms as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; and 
     (7) for debt collection contracts in accordance with 31 
     U.S.C. 3718(c).
       Any appropriations or funds available to the Forest Service 
     may be transferred to the Wildland Fire Management 
     appropriation for forest firefighting, emergency 
     rehabilitation of burned-over or damaged lands or waters 
     under its jurisdiction, and fire preparedness due to severe 
     burning conditions upon the Secretary's notification of the 
     House and Senate Committees on Appropriations that all fire 
     suppression funds appropriated under the heading ``Wildland 
     Fire Management'' will be obligated within 30 days: Provided, 
     That all funds used pursuant to this paragraph must be 
     replenished by a supplemental appropriation which must be 
     requested as promptly as possible.
       Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the Forest 
     Service may transfer unobligated balances of discretionary 
     funds appropriated to the Forest Service by this Act to or 
     within the Wildland Fire Management Account, or reprogram 
     funds within the Wildland Fire Management Account, to be used 
     for the purposes of hazardous fuels management and emergency 
     rehabilitation of burned-over National Forest System lands 
     and water, such transferred funds shall remain available 
     through September 30, 2021: Provided, That none of the funds 
     transferred pursuant to this section shall be available for 
     obligation without written notification to and the prior 
     approval of the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
     of Congress: Provided further, That this section does not 
     apply to funds derived from the Land and Water Conservation 
     Fund.
       Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available 
     for assistance to or through the Agency for International 
     Development in connection with forest and rangeland research, 
     technical information, and assistance in foreign countries, 
     and shall be available to support forestry and related 
     natural resource activities outside the United States and its 
     territories and possessions, including technical assistance, 
     education and training, and cooperation with United States 
     private and international organizations. The Forest Service, 
     acting for the International Program, may sign direct funding 
     agreements with foreign governments and institutions as well 
     as other domestic agencies (including the United States 
     Agency for International Development, the Department of 
     State, and the Millennium Challenge Corporation), United 
     States private sector firms, institutions and organizations 
     to provide technical assistance and training programs 
     overseas on forestry and rangeland management.
       Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available 
     for expenditure or transfer to the Department of the 
     Interior, Bureau of Land Management, for removal, 
     preparation, and adoption of excess wild horses and burros 
     from National Forest System lands, and for the performance of 
     cadastral surveys to designate the boundaries of such lands.
       None of the funds made available to the Forest Service in 
     this Act or any other Act with respect to any fiscal year 
     shall be subject to transfer under the provisions of section 
     702(b) of the Department of Agriculture Organic Act of 1944 
     (7 U.S.C. 2257), section 442 of Public Law 106-224 (7 U.S.C. 
     7772), or section 10417(b) of Public Law 107-171 (7 U.S.C. 
     8316(b)).
       None of the funds available to the Forest Service may be 
     reprogrammed without the advance approval of the House and 
     Senate Committees on Appropriations in accordance with the 
     reprogramming procedures contained in the report accompanying 
     this Act.
       Not more than $82,000,000 of funds available to the Forest 
     Service shall be transferred to the Working Capital Fund of 
     the Department of Agriculture and not more than $14,500,000 
     of funds available to the Forest Service shall be transferred 
     to the Department of Agriculture for Department Reimbursable 
     Programs, commonly referred to as Greenbook charges. Nothing 
     in this paragraph shall prohibit or limit the use of 
     reimbursable agreements requested by the Forest Service in 
     order to obtain services from the Department of Agriculture's 
     National Information Technology Center and the Department of 
     Agriculture's International Technology Service.
       Of the funds available to the Forest Service, up to 
     $5,000,000 shall be available for priority projects within 
     the scope of the approved budget, which shall be carried out 
     by the Youth Conservation Corps and shall be carried out 
     under the authority of the Public Lands Corps Act of 1993 (16 
     U.S.C. 1701 et seq.).
       Of the funds available to the Forest Service, $4,000 is 
     available to the Chief of the Forest Service for official 
     reception and representation expenses.
       Pursuant to sections 405(b) and 410(b) of Public Law 101-
     593, of the funds available to the Forest Service, up to 
     $3,000,000 may be advanced in a lump sum to the National 
     Forest Foundation to aid conservation partnership projects in 
     support of the Forest Service mission, without regard to when 
     the Foundation incurs expenses, for projects on or 
     benefitting National Forest System lands or related to Forest 
     Service programs: Provided, That of the Federal funds made 
     available to the Foundation, no more than $300,000 shall be 
     available for administrative expenses: Provided further, That 
     the Foundation shall obtain, by the end of the period of 
     Federal financial assistance, private contributions to match 
     funds made available by the Forest Service on at least a one-
     for-one basis: Provided further, That the Foundation may 
     transfer Federal funds to a Federal or a non-Federal 
     recipient for a project at the same rate that the recipient 
     has obtained the non-Federal matching funds.
       Pursuant to section 2(b)(2) of Public Law 98-244, up to 
     $3,000,000 of the funds available to the Forest Service may 
     be advanced to the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation in a 
     lump sum to aid cost-share conservation projects, without 
     regard to when expenses are incurred, on or benefitting 
     National Forest System lands or related to Forest Service 
     programs: Provided, That such funds shall be matched on at 
     least a one-for-one basis by the Foundation or its sub-
     recipients: Provided further, That the Foundation may 
     transfer Federal funds to a Federal or non-Federal recipient 
     for a project at the same rate that the recipient has 
     obtained the non-Federal matching funds.
       Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available 
     for interactions with and providing technical assistance to 
     rural communities and natural resource-based businesses for 
     sustainable rural development purposes.
       Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available 
     for payments to counties within the Columbia River Gorge 
     National Scenic Area, pursuant to section 14(c)(1) and (2), 
     and section 16(a)(2) of Public Law 99-663.
       Any funds appropriated to the Forest Service may be used to 
     meet the non-Federal share requirement in section 502(c) of 
     the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3056(c)(2)).
       Funds available to the Forest Service, not to exceed 
     $65,000,000, shall be assessed for the purpose of performing 
     fire, administrative and other facilities maintenance and 
     decommissioning. Such assessments shall occur using a square 
     foot rate charged on the same basis the agency uses to assess 
     programs for payment of rent, utilities, and other support 
     services.
       Notwithstanding any other provision of law, of any 
     appropriations or funds available to the Forest Service, not 
     to exceed $500,000 may be used to reimburse the Office of the 
     General Counsel (OGC), Department of Agriculture, for travel 
     and related expenses incurred as a result of OGC assistance 
     or participation requested by the Forest Service at meetings, 
     training sessions, management reviews, land purchase 
     negotiations and similar matters unrelated to civil 
     litigation. Future budget justifications for both the Forest 
     Service and the Department of Agriculture should clearly 
     display the sums previously transferred and the sums 
     requested for transfer.
       An eligible individual who is employed in any project 
     funded under title V of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 
     U.S.C. 3056 et seq.) and administered by the Forest Service 
     shall be considered to be a Federal employee for purposes of 
     chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code.
       Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, through 
     the Office of Budget and Program Analysis, the Forest Service 
     shall report not later than 30 business days following the 
     close of each fiscal quarter all current and prior year 
     unobligated balances, by fiscal year, budget line item and 
     account, to the House and Senate Committees on 
     Appropriations.
       Any unobligated balance of funds appropriated in a previous 
     fiscal year in the FLAME Wildfire Suppression Reserve Fund 
     account shall remain available through September 30, 2020.
       The Forest Service shall submit, through the Office of 
     Budget and Program Analysis, to the Office of Management and 
     Budget a proposed system of administrative control of funds 
     for its accounts, as described in 31 U.S.C. 1514, not later 
     than December 31, 2017.

[[Page H6860]]

  


                DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                         Indian Health Service

                         indian health services

       For expenses necessary to carry out the Act of August 5, 
     1954 (68 Stat. 674), the Indian Self-Determination and 
     Education Assistance Act, the Indian Health Care Improvement 
     Act, and titles II and III of the Public Health Service Act 
     with respect to the Indian Health Service, $3,867,260,000, 
     together with payments received during the fiscal year 
     pursuant to sections 231(b) and 233 of the Public Health 
     Service Act (42 U.S.C. 238(b), 238b), for services furnished 
     by the Indian Health Service: Provided, That funds made 
     available to tribes and tribal organizations through 
     contracts, grant agreements, or any other agreements or 
     compacts authorized by the Indian Self-Determination and 
     Education Assistance Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 450), shall be 
     deemed to be obligated at the time of the grant or contract 
     award and thereafter shall remain available to the tribe or 
     tribal organization without fiscal year limitation: Provided 
     further, That $2,000,000 shall be available for grants or 
     contracts with public or private institutions to provide 
     alcohol or drug treatment services to Indians, including 
     alcohol detoxification services: Provided further, That 
     $928,830,000 for Purchased/Referred Care, including 
     $53,000,000 for the Indian Catastrophic Health Emergency 
     Fund, shall remain available until expended: Provided 
     further, That of the funds provided, up to $36,000,000 shall 
     remain available until expended for implementation of the 
     loan repayment program under section 108 of the Indian Health 
     Care Improvement Act: Provided further That of the funds 
     provided, $11,000,000 shall remain available until expended 
     to supplement funds available for operational costs at tribal 
     clinics operated under an Indian Self-Determination and 
     Education Assistance Act compact or contract where health 
     care is delivered in space acquired through a full service 
     lease, which is not eligible for maintenance and improvement 
     and equipment funds from the Indian Health Service, and 
     $29,000,000 shall be for costs related to or resulting from 
     accreditation emergencies, of which up to $4,000,000 may be 
     used to supplement amounts otherwise available for Purchased/
     Referred Care: Provided further, That the amounts collected 
     by the Federal Government as authorized by sections 104 and 
     108 of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (25 U.S.C. 
     1613a and 1616a) during the preceding fiscal year for breach 
     of contracts shall be deposited to the Fund authorized by 
     section 108A of that Act (25 U.S.C. 1616a-1) and shall remain 
     available until expended and, notwithstanding section 108A(c) 
     of that Act (25 U.S.C. 1616a-1(c)), funds shall be available 
     to make new awards under the loan repayment and scholarship 
     programs under sections 104 and 108 of that Act (25 U.S.C. 
     1613a and 1616a): Provided further, That the amounts made 
     available within this account for the Substance Abuse and 
     Suicide Prevention Program, for the Domestic Violence 
     Prevention Program, for the Zero Suicide Initiative, for 
     aftercare pilot programs at Youth Regional Treatment Centers, 
     to improve collections from public and private insurance at 
     Indian Health Service and tribally operated facilities, and 
     for accreditation emergencies shall be allocated at the 
     discretion of the Director of the Indian Health Service and 
     shall remain available until expended: Provided further, That 
     funds provided in this Act may be used for annual contracts 
     and grants for which the performance period falls within 2 
     fiscal years, provided the total obligation is recorded in 
     the year the funds are appropriated: Provided further, That 
     the amounts collected by the Secretary of Health and Human 
     Services under the authority of title IV of the Indian Health 
     Care Improvement Act shall remain available until expended 
     for the purpose of achieving compliance with the applicable 
     conditions and requirements of titles XVIII and XIX of the 
     Social Security Act, except for those related to the 
     planning, design, or construction of new facilities: Provided 
     further, That funding contained herein for scholarship 
     programs under the Indian Health Care Improvement Act shall 
     remain available until expended: Provided further, That 
     amounts received by tribes and tribal organizations under 
     title IV of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act shall be 
     reported and accounted for and available to the receiving 
     tribes and tribal organizations until expended: Provided 
     further, That the Bureau of Indian Affairs may collect from 
     the Indian Health Service, and from tribes and tribal 
     organizations operating health facilities pursuant to Public 
     Law 93-638, such individually identifiable health information 
     relating to disabled children as may be necessary for the 
     purpose of carrying out its functions under the Individuals 
     with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1400, et seq.): 
     Provided further, That of the funds provided, $130,000,000 is 
     for the Indian Health Care Improvement Fund and may be used, 
     as needed, to carry out activities typically funded under the 
     Indian Health Facilities account.

                         contract support costs

       For payments to tribes and tribal organizations for 
     contract support costs associated with Indian Self-
     Determination and Education Assistance Act agreements with 
     the Indian Health Service for fiscal year 2018, such sums as 
     may be necessary: Provided, That notwithstanding any other 
     provision of law, no amounts made available under this 
     heading shall be available for transfer to another budget 
     account.

                        indian health facilities

       For construction, repair, maintenance, improvement, and 
     equipment of health and related auxiliary facilities, 
     including quarters for personnel; preparation of plans, 
     specifications, and drawings; acquisition of sites, purchase 
     and erection of modular buildings, and purchases of trailers; 
     and for provision of domestic and community sanitation 
     facilities for Indians, as authorized by section 7 of the Act 
     of August 5, 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2004a), the Indian Self-
     Determination Act, and the Indian Health Care Improvement 
     Act, and for expenses necessary to carry out such Acts and 
     titles II and III of the Public Health Service Act with 
     respect to environmental health and facilities support 
     activities of the Indian Health Service, $551,643,000, to 
     remain available until expended: Provided, That 
     notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
     appropriated for the planning, design, construction, 
     renovation or expansion of health facilities for the benefit 
     of an Indian tribe or tribes may be used to purchase land on 
     which such facilities will be located: Provided further, That 
     not to exceed $500,000 may be used by the Indian Health 
     Service to purchase TRANSAM equipment from the Department of 
     Defense for distribution to the Indian Health Service and 
     tribal facilities: Provided further, That none of the funds 
     appropriated to the Indian Health Service may be used for 
     sanitation facilities construction for new homes funded with 
     grants by the housing programs of the United States 
     Department of Housing and Urban Development: Provided 
     further, That not to exceed $2,700,000 from this account and 
     the ``Indian Health Services'' account may be used by the 
     Indian Health Service to obtain ambulances for the Indian 
     Health Service and tribal facilities in conjunction with an 
     existing interagency agreement between the Indian Health 
     Service and the General Services Administration: Provided 
     further, That not to exceed $500,000 may be placed in a 
     Demolition Fund, to remain available until expended, and be 
     used by the Indian Health Service for the demolition of 
     Federal buildings.

            administrative provisions--indian health service

       Appropriations provided in this Act to the Indian Health 
     Service shall be available for services as authorized by 5 
     U.S.C. 3109 at rates not to exceed the per diem rate 
     equivalent to the maximum rate payable for senior-level 
     positions under 5 U.S.C. 5376; hire of passenger motor 
     vehicles and aircraft; purchase of medical equipment; 
     purchase of reprints; purchase, renovation and erection of 
     modular buildings and renovation of existing facilities; 
     payments for telephone service in private residences in the 
     field, when authorized under regulations approved by the 
     Secretary of Health and Human Services; uniforms or 
     allowances therefor as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; and 
     for expenses of attendance at meetings that relate to the 
     functions or activities of the Indian Health Service: 
     Provided, That in accordance with the provisions of the 
     Indian Health Care Improvement Act, non-Indian patients may 
     be extended health care at all tribally administered or 
     Indian Health Service facilities, subject to charges, and the 
     proceeds along with funds recovered under the Federal Medical 
     Care Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 2651-2653) shall be credited to 
     the account of the facility providing the service and shall 
     be available without fiscal year limitation: Provided 
     further, That notwithstanding any other law or regulation, 
     funds transferred from the Department of Housing and Urban 
     Development to the Indian Health Service shall be 
     administered under Public Law 86-121, the Indian Sanitation 
     Facilities Act and Public Law 93-638: Provided further, That 
     funds appropriated to the Indian Health Service in this Act, 
     except those used for administrative and program direction 
     purposes, shall not be subject to limitations directed at 
     curtailing Federal travel and transportation: Provided 
     further, That none of the funds made available to the Indian 
     Health Service in this Act shall be used for any assessments 
     or charges by the Department of Health and Human Services 
     unless identified in the budget justification and provided in 
     this Act, or approved by the House and Senate Committees on 
     Appropriations through the reprogramming process: Provided 
     further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     funds previously or herein made available to a tribe or 
     tribal organization through a contract, grant, or agreement 
     authorized by title I or title V of the Indian Self-
     Determination and Education Assistance Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 
     5321 et seq. (title I), 5381 et seq. (title V)), may be 
     deobligated and reobligated to a self-determination contract 
     under title I, or a self-governance agreement under title V 
     of such Act and thereafter shall remain available to the 
     tribe or tribal organization without fiscal year limitation: 
     Provided further, That none of the funds made available to 
     the Indian Health Service in this Act shall be used to 
     implement the final rule published in the Federal Register on 
     September 16, 1987, by the Department of Health and Human 
     Services, relating to the eligibility for the health care 
     services of the Indian Health Service until the Indian Health 
     Service has submitted a budget request reflecting the 
     increased costs associated with the proposed final rule, and 
     such request has been included in an appropriations Act and 
     enacted into law: Provided further, That with respect to 
     functions transferred by the Indian Health Service to tribes 
     or tribal organizations, the Indian Health Service is 
     authorized to provide goods and services to those entities on 
     a reimbursable basis, including payments in advance with 
     subsequent adjustment, and the reimbursements received 
     therefrom, along with the funds received from those entities 
     pursuant to the Indian Self-Determination Act, may be 
     credited to the same or subsequent appropriation account from 
     which the funds were originally derived, with such amounts to 
     remain available until expended: Provided further, That 
     reimbursements for training, technical assistance, or 
     services provided by the Indian Health Service will contain 
     total costs, including direct, administrative, and overhead 
     costs associated with the provision of goods, services, or 
     technical assistance:

[[Page H6861]]

     Provided further, That the appropriation structure for the 
     Indian Health Service may not be altered without advance 
     notification to the House and Senate Committees on 
     Appropriations.

                     National Institutes of Health

          national institute of environmental health sciences

       For necessary expenses for the National Institute of 
     Environmental Health Sciences in carrying out activities set 
     forth in section 311(a) of the Comprehensive Environmental 
     Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 
     9660(a)) and section 126(g) of the Superfund Amendments and 
     Reauthorization Act of 1986, $75,370,000.

            Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry

            toxic substances and environmental public health

       For necessary expenses for the Agency for Toxic Substances 
     and Disease Registry (ATSDR) in carrying out activities set 
     forth in sections 104(i) and 111(c)(4) of the Comprehensive 
     Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 
     1980 (CERCLA) and section 3019 of the Solid Waste Disposal 
     Act, $72,780,000: Provided, That notwithstanding any other 
     provision of law, in lieu of performing a health assessment 
     under section 104(i)(6) of CERCLA, the Administrator of ATSDR 
     may conduct other appropriate health studies, evaluations, or 
     activities, including, without limitation, biomedical 
     testing, clinical evaluations, medical monitoring, and 
     referral to accredited healthcare providers: Provided 
     further, That in performing any such health assessment or 
     health study, evaluation, or activity, the Administrator of 
     ATSDR shall not be bound by the deadlines in section 
     104(i)(6)(A) of CERCLA: Provided further, That none of the 
     funds appropriated under this heading shall be available for 
     ATSDR to issue in excess of 40 toxicological profiles 
     pursuant to section 104(i) of CERCLA during fiscal year 2018, 
     and existing profiles may be updated as necessary.

                         OTHER RELATED AGENCIES

                   Executive Office of the President

  council on environmental quality and office of environmental quality

       For necessary expenses to continue functions assigned to 
     the Council on Environmental Quality and Office of 
     Environmental Quality pursuant to the National Environmental 
     Policy Act of 1969, the Environmental Quality Improvement Act 
     of 1970, and Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1977, and not to 
     exceed $750 for official reception and representation 
     expenses, $2,994,000: Provided, That notwithstanding section 
     202 of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1970, the 
     Council shall consist of one member, appointed by the 
     President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, 
     serving as chairman and exercising all powers, functions, and 
     duties of the Council.

             Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses in carrying out activities pursuant 
     to section 112(r)(6) of the Clean Air Act, including hire of 
     passenger vehicles, uniforms or allowances therefor, as 
     authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902, and for services authorized 
     by 5 U.S.C. 3109 but at rates for individuals not to exceed 
     the per diem equivalent to the maximum rate payable for 
     senior level positions under 5 U.S.C. 5376, $11,000,000: 
     Provided, That the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation 
     Board (Board) shall have not more than three career Senior 
     Executive Service positions: Provided further, That 
     notwithstanding any other provision of law, the individual 
     appointed to the position of Inspector General of the 
     Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) shall, by virtue of 
     such appointment, also hold the position of Inspector General 
     of the Board: Provided further, That notwithstanding any 
     other provision of law, the Inspector General of the Board 
     shall utilize personnel of the Office of Inspector General of 
     EPA in performing the duties of the Inspector General of the 
     Board, and shall not appoint any individuals to positions 
     within the Board.

              Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For necessary expenses of the Office of Navajo and Hopi 
     Indian Relocation as authorized by Public Law 93-531, 
     $15,431,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
     That funds provided in this or any other appropriations Act 
     are to be used to relocate eligible individuals and groups 
     including evictees from District 6, Hopi-partitioned lands 
     residents, those in significantly substandard housing, and 
     all others certified as eligible and not included in the 
     preceding categories: Provided further, That none of the 
     funds contained in this or any other Act may be used by the 
     Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation to evict any 
     single Navajo or Navajo family who, as of November 30, 1985, 
     was physically domiciled on the lands partitioned to the Hopi 
     Tribe unless a new or replacement home is provided for such 
     household: Provided further, That no relocatee will be 
     provided with more than one new or replacement home: Provided 
     further, That the Office shall relocate any certified 
     eligible relocatees who have selected and received an 
     approved homesite on the Navajo reservation or selected a 
     replacement residence off the Navajo reservation or on the 
     land acquired pursuant to section 11 of Public Law 93-531 (88 
     Stat. 1716): Provided further, That $200,000 shall be 
     transferred to the Office of Inspector General of the 
     Department of the Interior, to remain available until 
     expended, for audits and investigations of the Office of 
     Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, consistent with the 
     Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).

    Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts 
                              Development

                        payment to the institute

       For payment to the Institute of American Indian and Alaska 
     Native Culture and Arts Development, as authorized by part A 
     of title XV of Public Law 99-498 (20 U.S.C. 4411 et seq.), 
     $9,835,000, which shall become available on July 1, 2018, and 
     shall remain available until September 30, 2019.

                        Smithsonian Institution

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Smithsonian Institution, as 
     authorized by law, including research in the fields of art, 
     science, and history; development, preservation, and 
     documentation of the National Collections; presentation of 
     public exhibits and performances; collection, preparation, 
     dissemination, and exchange of information and publications; 
     conduct of education, training, and museum assistance 
     programs; maintenance, alteration, operation, lease 
     agreements of no more than 30 years, and protection of 
     buildings, facilities, and approaches; not to exceed $100,000 
     for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; and purchase, 
     rental, repair, and cleaning of uniforms for employees, 
     $716,600,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019, 
     except as otherwise provided herein; of which not to exceed 
     $6,908,000 for the instrumentation program, collections 
     acquisition, exhibition reinstallation, and the repatriation 
     of skeletal remains program shall remain available until 
     expended; and including such funds as may be necessary to 
     support American overseas research centers: Provided, That 
     funds appropriated herein are available for advance payments 
     to independent contractors performing research services or 
     participating in official Smithsonian presentations.

                           facilities capital

       For necessary expenses of repair, revitalization, and 
     alteration of facilities owned or occupied by the Smithsonian 
     Institution, by contract or otherwise, as authorized by 
     section 2 of the Act of August 22, 1949 (63 Stat. 623), and 
     for construction, including necessary personnel, 
     $168,500,000, including support for revitalization of the 
     National Air and Space Museum, to remain available until 
     expended, of which not to exceed $10,000 shall be for 
     services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.

                        National Gallery of Art

                         salaries and expenses

       For the upkeep and operations of the National Gallery of 
     Art, the protection and care of the works of art therein, and 
     administrative expenses incident thereto, as authorized by 
     the Act of March 24, 1937 (50 Stat. 51), as amended by the 
     public resolution of April 13, 1939 (Public Resolution 9, 
     Seventy-sixth Congress), including services as authorized by 
     5 U.S.C. 3109; payment in advance when authorized by the 
     treasurer of the Gallery for membership in library, museum, 
     and art associations or societies whose publications or 
     services are available to members only, or to members at a 
     price lower than to the general public; purchase, repair, and 
     cleaning of uniforms for guards, and uniforms, or allowances 
     therefor, for other employees as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 
     5901-5902); purchase or rental of devices and services for 
     protecting buildings and contents thereof, and maintenance, 
     alteration, improvement, and repair of buildings, approaches, 
     and grounds; and purchase of services for restoration and 
     repair of works of art for the National Gallery of Art by 
     contracts made, without advertising, with individuals, firms, 
     or organizations at such rates or prices and under such terms 
     and conditions as the Gallery may deem proper, $132,961,000, 
     to remain available until September 30, 2019, of which not to 
     exceed $3,620,000 for the special exhibition program shall 
     remain available until expended.

            repair, restoration and renovation of buildings

       For necessary expenses of repair, restoration and 
     renovation of buildings, grounds and facilities owned or 
     occupied by the National Gallery of Art, by contract or 
     otherwise, for operating lease agreements of no more than 10 
     years, with no extensions or renewals beyond the 10 years, 
     that address space needs created by the ongoing renovations 
     in the Master Facilities Plan, as authorized, $22,564,000, to 
     remain available until expended: Provided, That contracts 
     awarded for environmental systems, protection systems, and 
     exterior repair or renovation of buildings of the National 
     Gallery of Art may be negotiated with selected contractors 
     and awarded on the basis of contractor qualifications as well 
     as price.

             John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts

                       operations and maintenance

       For necessary expenses for the operation, maintenance and 
     security of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing 
     Arts, $23,740,000.

                     capital repair and restoration

       For necessary expenses for capital repair and restoration 
     of the existing features of the building and site of the John 
     F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, $13,000,000, to 
     remain available until expended.

            Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars

                         salaries and expenses

       For expenses necessary in carrying out the provisions of 
     the Woodrow Wilson Memorial Act of 1968 (82 Stat. 1356) 
     including hire of passenger vehicles and services as 
     authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $10,000,000, to remain available 
     until September 30, 2019.

[[Page H6862]]

  


           National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities

                    National Endowment for the Arts

                       grants and administration

       For necessary expenses to carry out the National Foundation 
     on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, $145,000,000 
     shall be available to the National Endowment for the Arts for 
     the support of projects and productions in the arts, 
     including arts education and public outreach activities, 
     through assistance to organizations and individuals pursuant 
     to section 5 of the Act, for program support, and for 
     administering the functions of the Act, to remain available 
     until expended.

                 National Endowment for the Humanities

                       grants and administration

       For necessary expenses to carry out the National Foundation 
     on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, $145,000,000 to 
     remain available until expended, of which $134,000,000 shall 
     be available for support of activities in the humanities, 
     pursuant to section 7(c) of the Act and for administering the 
     functions of the Act; and $11,000,000 shall be available to 
     carry out the matching grants program pursuant to section 
     10(a)(2) of the Act, including $8,700,000 for the purposes of 
     section 7(h): Provided, That appropriations for carrying out 
     section 10(a)(2) shall be available for obligation only in 
     such amounts as may be equal to the total amounts of gifts, 
     bequests, devises of money, and other property accepted by 
     the chairman or by grantees of the National Endowment for the 
     Humanities under the provisions of sections 11(a)(2)(B) and 
     11(a)(3)(B) during the current and preceding fiscal years for 
     which equal amounts have not previously been appropriated.

                       Administrative Provisions

       None of the funds appropriated to the National Foundation 
     on the Arts and the Humanities may be used to process any 
     grant or contract documents which do not include the text of 
     18 U.S.C. 1913: Provided, That none of the funds appropriated 
     to the National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities may 
     be used for official reception and representation expenses: 
     Provided further, That funds from nonappropriated sources may 
     be used as necessary for official reception and 
     representation expenses: Provided further, That the 
     Chairperson of the National Endowment for the Arts may 
     approve grants of up to $10,000, if in the aggregate the 
     amount of such grants does not exceed 5 percent of the sums 
     appropriated for grantmaking purposes per year: Provided 
     further, That such small grant actions are taken pursuant to 
     the terms of an expressed and direct delegation of authority 
     from the National Council on the Arts to the Chairperson.

                        Commission of Fine Arts

                         salaries and expenses

       For expenses of the Commission of Fine Arts under chapter 
     91 of title 40, United States Code, $2,600,000: Provided, 
     That the Commission is authorized to charge fees to cover the 
     full costs of its publications, and such fees shall be 
     credited to this account as an offsetting collection, to 
     remain available until expended without further 
     appropriation: Provided further, That the Commission is 
     authorized to accept gifts, including objects, papers, 
     artwork, drawings and artifacts, that pertain to the history 
     and design of the Nation's Capital or the history and 
     activities of the Commission of Fine Arts, for the purpose of 
     artistic display, study, or education: Provided further, That 
     one-tenth of one percent of the funds provided under this 
     heading may be used for official reception and representation 
     expenses.

               national capital arts and cultural affairs

       For necessary expenses as authorized by Public Law 99-190 
     (20 U.S.C. 956a), $2,000,000.

               Advisory Council on Historic Preservation

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Advisory Council on Historic 
     Preservation (Public Law 89-665), $6,400,000.

                  National Capital Planning Commission

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the National Capital Planning 
     Commission under chapter 87 of title 40, United States Code, 
     including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
     $7,948,000: Provided, That one-quarter of 1 percent of the 
     funds provided under this heading may be used for official 
     reception and representational expenses associated with 
     hosting international visitors engaged in the planning and 
     physical development of world capitals.

                United States Holocaust Memorial Museum

                       holocaust memorial museum

       For expenses of the Holocaust Memorial Museum, as 
     authorized by Public Law 106-292 (36 U.S.C. 2301-2310), 
     $57,000,000, of which $1,215,000 shall remain available until 
     September 30, 2020, for the Museum's equipment replacement 
     program; and of which $2,500,000 for the Museum's repair and 
     rehabilitation program and $1,264,000 for the Museum's 
     outreach initiatives program shall remain available until 
     expended.

                Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial Commission

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial 
     Commission, $1,600,000, to remain available until expended.

                          capital construction

       For necessary expenses of the Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial 
     Commission for design and construction of a memorial in honor 
     of Dwight D. Eisenhower, as authorized by Public Law 106-79, 
     $15,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
     That the contract with respect to the procurement shall 
     contain the ``availability of funds'' clause described in 
     section 52.232.18 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations: 
     Provided further, That the funds appropriated herein shall be 
     deemed to satisfy the criteria for issuing a permit contained 
     in 40 U.S.C. 8906(a)(4) and (b).

                 women's suffrage centennial commission

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Women's Suffrage Centennial 
     Commission, as authorized by Public Law 115-31, $1,000,000, 
     to remain available until expended.

                   world war i centennial commission

                         salaries and expenses

       For activities of the World War I Centennial Commission as 
     authorized by the World War I Centennial Commission Act 
     (Public Law 112-272) and the Carl Levin and Howard P. 
     ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291), $3,000,000: Provided, That 
     the Commission may accept money, in-kind personnel services, 
     contractual support, or any appropriate support from any 
     executive branch agency for activities of the Commission.

                                TITLE IV

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                     (including transfers of funds)

                      restriction on use of funds

       Sec. 401.  No part of any appropriation contained in this 
     Act shall be available for any activity or the publication or 
     distribution of literature that in any way tends to promote 
     public support or opposition to any legislative proposal on 
     which Congressional action is not complete other than to 
     communicate to Members of Congress as described in 18 U.S.C. 
     1913.

                      obligation of appropriations

       Sec. 402.  No part of any appropriation contained in this 
     Act shall remain available for obligation beyond the current 
     fiscal year unless expressly so provided herein.

                 disclosure of administrative expenses

       Sec. 403.  The amount and basis of estimated overhead 
     charges, deductions, reserves or holdbacks, including working 
     capital fund and cost pool charges, from programs, projects, 
     activities and subactivities to support government-wide, 
     departmental, agency, or bureau administrative functions or 
     headquarters, regional, or central operations shall be 
     presented in annual budget justifications and subject to 
     approval by the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate. Changes to such estimates 
     shall be presented to the Committees on Appropriations for 
     approval.

                          mining applications

       Sec. 404. (a) Limitation of Funds.--None of the funds 
     appropriated or otherwise made available pursuant to this Act 
     shall be obligated or expended to accept or process 
     applications for a patent for any mining or mill site claim 
     located under the general mining laws.
       (b) Exceptions.--Subsection (a) shall not apply if the 
     Secretary of the Interior determines that, for the claim 
     concerned (1) a patent application was filed with the 
     Secretary on or before September 30, 1994; and (2) all 
     requirements established under sections 2325 and 2326 of the 
     Revised Statutes (30 U.S.C. 29 and 30) for vein or lode 
     claims, sections 2329, 2330, 2331, and 2333 of the Revised 
     Statutes (30 U.S.C. 35, 36, and 37) for placer claims, and 
     section 2337 of the Revised Statutes (30 U.S.C. 42) for mill 
     site claims, as the case may be, were fully complied with by 
     the applicant by that date.
       (c) Report.--On September 30, 2019, the Secretary of the 
     Interior shall file with the House and Senate Committees on 
     Appropriations and the Committee on Natural Resources of the 
     House and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of 
     the Senate a report on actions taken by the Department under 
     the plan submitted pursuant to section 314(c) of the 
     Department of the Interior and Related Agencies 
     Appropriations Act, 1997 (Public Law 104-208).
       (d) Mineral Examinations.--In order to process patent 
     applications in a timely and responsible manner, upon the 
     request of a patent applicant, the Secretary of the Interior 
     shall allow the applicant to fund a qualified third-party 
     contractor to be selected by the Director of the Bureau of 
     Land Management to conduct a mineral examination of the 
     mining claims or mill sites contained in a patent application 
     as set forth in subsection (b). The Bureau of Land Management 
     shall have the sole responsibility to choose and pay the 
     third-party contractor in accordance with the standard 
     procedures employed by the Bureau of Land Management in the 
     retention of third-party contractors.

             contract support costs, prior year limitation

       Sec. 405.  Sections 405 and 406 of division F of the 
     Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2015 
     (Public Law 113-235) shall continue in effect in fiscal year 
     2018.

          contract support costs, fiscal year 2018 limitation

       Sec. 406.  Amounts provided by this Act for fiscal year 
     2018 under the headings ``Department of Health and Human 
     Services, Indian Health Service, Contract Support Costs'' and 
     ``Department of the Interior, Bureau of Indian Affairs and 
     Bureau of Indian Education, Contract Support Costs'' are the 
     only amounts available for contract support costs arising out 
     of self-determination or self-governance contracts, grants, 
     compacts, or annual funding agreements for fiscal year 2018 
     with the Bureau of Indian Affairs or the Indian Health 
     Service: Provided, That such amounts provided by this Act are 
     not available for payment of claims for contract support 
     costs for prior years, or for repayments of payments for 
     settlements or judgments awarding contract support costs for 
     prior years.

[[Page H6863]]

  


                        forest management plans

       Sec. 407.  The Secretary of Agriculture shall not be 
     considered to be in violation of subparagraph 6(f)(5)(A) of 
     the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 
     1974 (16 U.S.C. 1604(f)(5)(A)) solely because more than 15 
     years have passed without revision of the plan for a unit of 
     the National Forest System. Nothing in this section exempts 
     the Secretary from any other requirement of the Forest and 
     Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act (16 U.S.C. 1600 et 
     seq.) or any other law: Provided, That if the Secretary is 
     not acting expeditiously and in good faith, within the 
     funding available, to revise a plan for a unit of the 
     National Forest System, this section shall be void with 
     respect to such plan and a court of proper jurisdiction may 
     order completion of the plan on an accelerated basis.

                 prohibition within national monuments

       Sec. 408.  No funds provided in this Act may be expended to 
     conduct preleasing, leasing and related activities under 
     either the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.) or the 
     Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331 et seq.) 
     within the boundaries of a National Monument established 
     pursuant to the Act of June 8, 1906 (16 U.S.C. 431 et seq.) 
     as such boundary existed on January 20, 2001, except where 
     such activities are allowed under the Presidential 
     proclamation establishing such monument.

                         limitation on takings

       Sec. 409.  Unless otherwise provided herein, no funds 
     appropriated in this Act for the acquisition of lands or 
     interests in lands may be expended for the filing of 
     declarations of taking or complaints in condemnation without 
     the approval of the House and Senate Committees on 
     Appropriations: Provided, That this provision shall not apply 
     to funds appropriated to implement the Everglades National 
     Park Protection and Expansion Act of 1989, or to funds 
     appropriated for Federal assistance to the State of Florida 
     to acquire lands for Everglades restoration purposes.

                        timber sale requirements

       Sec. 410.  No timber sale in Alaska's Region 10 shall be 
     advertised if the indicated rate is deficit (defined as the 
     value of the timber is not sufficient to cover all logging 
     and stumpage costs and provide a normal profit and risk 
     allowance under the Forest Service's appraisal process) when 
     appraised using a residual value appraisal. The western red 
     cedar timber from those sales which is surplus to the needs 
     of the domestic processors in Alaska, shall be made available 
     to domestic processors in the contiguous 48 United States at 
     prevailing domestic prices. All additional western red cedar 
     volume not sold to Alaska or contiguous 48 United States 
     domestic processors may be exported to foreign markets at the 
     election of the timber sale holder. All Alaska yellow cedar 
     may be sold at prevailing export prices at the election of 
     the timber sale holder.

                    prohibition on no-bid contracts

       Sec. 411.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available by this Act to executive branch agencies may be 
     used to enter into any Federal contract unless such contract 
     is entered into in accordance with the requirements of 
     Chapter 33 of title 41, United States Code, or Chapter 137 of 
     title 10, United States Code, and the Federal Acquisition 
     Regulation, unless--
       (1) Federal law specifically authorizes a contract to be 
     entered into without regard for these requirements, including 
     formula grants for States, or federally recognized Indian 
     tribes; or
       (2) such contract is authorized by the Indian Self-
     Determination and Education Assistance Act (Public Law 93-
     638, 25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.) or by any other Federal laws that 
     specifically authorize a contract within an Indian tribe as 
     defined in section 4(e) of that Act (25 U.S.C. 450b(e)); or
       (3) such contract was awarded prior to the date of 
     enactment of this Act.

                           posting of reports

       Sec. 412. (a) Any agency receiving funds made available in 
     this Act, shall, subject to subsections (b) and (c), post on 
     the public website of that agency any report required to be 
     submitted by the Congress in this or any other Act, upon the 
     determination by the head of the agency that it shall serve 
     the national interest.
       (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to a report if--
       (1) the public posting of the report compromises national 
     security; or
       (2) the report contains proprietary information.
       (c) The head of the agency posting such report shall do so 
     only after such report has been made available to the 
     requesting Committee or Committees of Congress for no less 
     than 45 days.

            national endowment for the arts grant guidelines

       Sec. 413.  Of the funds provided to the National Endowment 
     for the Arts--
       (1) The Chairperson shall only award a grant to an 
     individual if such grant is awarded to such individual for a 
     literature fellowship, National Heritage Fellowship, or 
     American Jazz Masters Fellowship.
       (2) The Chairperson shall establish procedures to ensure 
     that no funding provided through a grant, except a grant made 
     to a State or local arts agency, or regional group, may be 
     used to make a grant to any other organization or individual 
     to conduct activity independent of the direct grant 
     recipient. Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit payments 
     made in exchange for goods and services.
       (3) No grant shall be used for seasonal support to a group, 
     unless the application is specific to the contents of the 
     season, including identified programs or projects.

           national endowment for the arts program priorities

       Sec. 414. (a) In providing services or awarding financial 
     assistance under the National Foundation on the Arts and the 
     Humanities Act of 1965 from funds appropriated under this 
     Act, the Chairperson of the National Endowment for the Arts 
     shall ensure that priority is given to providing services or 
     awarding financial assistance for projects, productions, 
     workshops, or programs that serve underserved populations.
       (b) In this section:
       (1) The term ``underserved population'' means a population 
     of individuals, including urban minorities, who have 
     historically been outside the purview of arts and humanities 
     programs due to factors such as a high incidence of income 
     below the poverty line or to geographic isolation.
       (2) The term ``poverty line'' means the poverty line (as 
     defined by the Office of Management and Budget, and revised 
     annually in accordance with section 673(2) of the Community 
     Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9902(2))) applicable to a 
     family of the size involved.
       (c) In providing services and awarding financial assistance 
     under the National Foundation on the Arts and Humanities Act 
     of 1965 with funds appropriated by this Act, the Chairperson 
     of the National Endowment for the Arts shall ensure that 
     priority is given to providing services or awarding financial 
     assistance for projects, productions, workshops, or programs 
     that will encourage public knowledge, education, 
     understanding, and appreciation of the arts.
       (d) With funds appropriated by this Act to carry out 
     section 5 of the National Foundation on the Arts and 
     Humanities Act of 1965--
       (1) the Chairperson shall establish a grant category for 
     projects, productions, workshops, or programs that are of 
     national impact or availability or are able to tour several 
     States;
       (2) the Chairperson shall not make grants exceeding 15 
     percent, in the aggregate, of such funds to any single State, 
     excluding grants made under the authority of paragraph (1);
       (3) the Chairperson shall report to the Congress annually 
     and by State, on grants awarded by the Chairperson in each 
     grant category under section 5 of such Act; and
       (4) the Chairperson shall encourage the use of grants to 
     improve and support community-based music performance and 
     education.

                  status of balances of appropriations

       Sec. 415.  The Department of the Interior, the 
     Environmental Protection Agency, the Forest Service, and the 
     Indian Health Service shall provide the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate 
     quarterly reports on the status of balances of appropriations 
     including all uncommitted, committed, and unobligated funds 
     in each program and activity.

                             recreation fee

       Sec. 416.  Section 810 of the Federal Lands Recreation 
     Enhancement Act (16 U.S.C. 6809) is amended by striking 
     ``September 30, 2018'' and inserting ``September 30, 2019''.

                      prohibition on use of funds

       Sec. 417.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none 
     of the funds made available in this Act or any other Act may 
     be used to promulgate or implement any regulation requiring 
     the issuance of permits under title V of the Clean Air Act 
     (42 U.S.C. 7661 et seq.) for carbon dioxide, nitrous oxide, 
     water vapor, or methane emissions resulting from biological 
     processes associated with livestock production.

                 greenhouse gas reporting restrictions

       Sec. 418.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none 
     of the funds made available in this or any other Act may be 
     used to implement any provision in a rule, if that provision 
     requires mandatory reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from 
     manure management systems.

                      modification of authorities

       Sec. 419.  Section 8162(m)(3) of the Department of Defense 
     Appropriations Act, 2000 (40 U.S.C. 8903 note; Public Law 
     106-79) is amended by striking ``September 30, 2017'' and 
     inserting ``September 30, 2018''.

                          funding prohibition

       Sec. 420.  None of the funds made available by this or any 
     other Act may be used to regulate the lead content of 
     ammunition, ammunition components, or fishing tackle under 
     the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2601 et seq.) or 
     any other law.

                        contracting authorities

       Sec. 421.  Section 412 of Division E of Public Law 112-74 
     is amended by striking ``fiscal year 2017'' and inserting 
     ``fiscal year 2019''.

                       chesapeake bay initiative

       Sec. 422.  Section 502(c) of the Chesapeake Bay Initiative 
     Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-312; 16 U.S.C. 461 note) is 
     amended by striking ``2017'' and inserting ``2019''.

                      extension of grazing permits

       Sec. 423.  The terms and conditions of section 325 of 
     Public Law 108-108 (117 Stat. 1307), regarding grazing 
     permits issued by the Forest Service on any lands not subject 
     to administration under section 402 of the Federal Lands 
     Policy and Management Act (43 U.S.C. 1752), shall remain in 
     effect for fiscal year 2018.

                          funding prohibition

       Sec. 424. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act 
     may be used to maintain or establish a computer network 
     unless such network is designed to block access to 
     pornography websites.
       (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
     necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law 
     enforcement agency or any other entity carrying out criminal 
     investigations, prosecution, or adjudication activities.

        forest service facility realignment and enhancement act

       Sec. 425.  Section 503(f) of the Forest Service Facility 
     Realignment and Enhancement Act of

[[Page H6864]]

     2005 (16 U.S.C. 580d note; Public Law 109-54) is amended by 
     striking ``2016'' and inserting ``2018''.

                     use of american iron and steel

       Sec. 426. (a)(1) None of the funds made available by a 
     State water pollution control revolving fund as authorized by 
     section 1452 of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-
     12) shall be used for a project for the construction, 
     alteration, maintenance, or repair of a public water system 
     or treatment works unless all of the iron and steel products 
     used in the project are produced in the United States.
       (2) In this section, the term ``iron and steel'' products 
     means the following products made primarily of iron or steel: 
     lined or unlined pipes and fittings, manhole covers and other 
     municipal castings, hydrants, tanks, flanges, pipe clamps and 
     restraints, valves, structural steel, reinforced precast 
     concrete, and construction materials.
       (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply in any case or category 
     of cases in which the Administrator of the Environmental 
     Protection Agency (in this section referred to as the 
     ``Administrator'') finds that--
       (1) applying subsection (a) would be inconsistent with the 
     public interest;
       (2) iron and steel products are not produced in the United 
     States in sufficient and reasonably available quantities and 
     of a satisfactory quality; or
       (3) inclusion of iron and steel products produced in the 
     United States will increase the cost of the overall project 
     by more than 25 percent.
       (c) If the Administrator receives a request for a waiver 
     under this section, the Administrator shall make available to 
     the public on an informal basis a copy of the request and 
     information available to the Administrator concerning the 
     request, and shall allow for informal public input on the 
     request for at least 15 days prior to making a finding based 
     on the request. The Administrator shall make the request and 
     accompanying information available by electronic means, 
     including on the official public Internet Web site of the 
     Environmental Protection Agency.
       (d) This section shall be applied in a manner consistent 
     with United States obligations under international 
     agreements.
       (e) The Administrator may retain up to 0.25 percent of the 
     funds appropriated in this Act for the Clean and Drinking 
     Water State Revolving Funds for carrying out the provisions 
     described in subsection (a)(1) for management and oversight 
     of the requirements of this section.

                             midway island

       Sec. 427.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to destroy any buildings or structures on Midway 
     Island that have been recommended by the United States Navy 
     for inclusion in the National Register of Historic Places (54 
     U.S.C. 302101).

                  policies relating to biomass energy

       Sec. 428.  For fiscal year 2018 and each fiscal year 
     thereafter, to support the key role that forests in the 
     United States can play in addressing the energy needs of the 
     United States, the Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of 
     Agriculture, and the Administrator of the Environmental 
     Protection Agency shall, consistent with their missions, 
     jointly--
       (1) ensure that Federal policy relating to forest 
     bioenergy--
       (A) is consistent across all Federal departments and 
     agencies; and
       (B) recognizes the full benefits of the use of forest 
     biomass for energy, conservation, and responsible forest 
     management; and
       (2) establish clear and simple policies for the use of 
     forest biomass as an energy solution, including policies 
     that--
       (A) reflect the carbon-neutrality of forest bioenergy and 
     recognize biomass as a renewable energy source, provided the 
     use of forest biomass for energy production does not cause 
     conversion of forests to non-forest use.
       (B) encourage private investment throughout the forest 
     biomass supply chain, including in--
       (i) working forests;
       (ii) harvesting operations;
       (iii) forest improvement operations;
       (iv) forest bioenergy production;
       (v) wood products manufacturing; or
       (vi) paper manufacturing;
       (C) encourage forest management to improve forest health; 
     and
       (D) recognize State initiatives to produce and use forest 
     biomass.

                 john f. kennedy center reauthorization

       Sec. 429.  Section 13 of the John F. Kennedy Center Act (20 
     U.S.C. 76r) is amended by striking subsections (a) and (b) 
     and inserting the following:
       ``(a)  Maintenance, Repair, and Security.--There is 
     authorized to be appropriated to the Board to carry out 
     section 4(a)(1)(H), $24,000,000 for fiscal year 2018.
       ``(b)  Capital Projects.--There is authorized to be 
     appropriated to the Board to carry out subparagraphs (F) and 
     (G) of section 4(a)(1), $13,000,000 for fiscal year 2018.''.

                      clarification of exemptions

       Sec. 430.  Notwithstanding section 404(f)(2) of the Federal 
     Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1344(f)(2)), none of 
     the funds made available by this Act may be used to require a 
     permit for the discharge of dredged or fill material under 
     the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et 
     seq.) for the activities identified in subparagraphs (A) and 
     (C) of section 404(f)(1) of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1344(f)(1)(A), 
     (C)).

                      waters of the united states

       Sec. 431. (a) Authorization.--The Administrator of the 
     Environmental Protection Agency and the Secretary of the Army 
     may withdraw the Waters of the United States rule without 
     regard to any provision of statute or regulation that 
     establishes a requirement for such withdrawal.
       (b) Effect of Withdrawal.--Except as otherwise provided by 
     any Act or rule that takes effect after the date of enactment 
     of this Act, if the Administrator of the Environmental 
     Protection Agency and the Secretary of the Army withdraw the 
     Waters of the United States rule under subsection (a), the 
     Administrator and Secretary shall implement the provisions of 
     law under which such rule was issued in accordance with the 
     regulations and guidance in effect under such provisions 
     immediately before the effective date of such rule.
       (c) Definitions.--In this section the term ``Waters of the 
     United States rule'' means the final rule issued by the 
     Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and the 
     Secretary of the Army entitled ``Clean Water Rule: Definition 
     of `Waters of the United States' '' on June 29, 2015 (80 Fed. 
     Reg. 37053).

                                 ozone

       Sec. 432.  To implement the national ambient air quality 
     standards for ozone published in the Federal Register on 
     October 26, 2015 (80 Fed. Reg. 65292):
       (1) the Governor of each State shall designate areas of the 
     State as attainment, nonattainment, or unclassifiable with 
     respect to the standards not later than October 26, 2024;
       (2) the Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
     Agency shall promulgate final designations for all areas in 
     all States with respect to the standards not later than 
     October 26, 2025;
       (3) each State shall submit the plan required by section 
     110(a)(1) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7410(a)(1)) for the 
     standards not later than October 26, 2026;
       (4) the standards shall not apply to the review and 
     disposition of a preconstruction permit application required 
     under part C or D of title I of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 
     7470 et seq.) if the Administrator or the State, local or 
     tribal permitting authority, as applicable, has determined 
     the application to be complete prior to the date of 
     promulgation of final designations, or has published a public 
     notice of a preliminary determination or draft permit before 
     the date that is 60 days after the date of promulgation of 
     final designations; and
       (5) the provisions of subsections (1) through (4) above 
     shall apply notwithstanding the deadlines set forth in 
     Section 107(d) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7407(d)) and 
     Section 110(a)(1) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 
     7410(a)(1)).

                          financial assurance

       Sec. 433.  None of the funds made available by this or any 
     other Act may be used to finalize, implement, administer, or 
     enforce the proposed rule entitled ``Financial Responsibility 
     Requirements Under CERCLA Sec.  108(b) for Classes of 
     Facilities in the Hardrock Mining Industry'' published by the 
     Environmental Protection Agency in the Federal Register on 
     January 11, 2017 (82 Fed. Reg. 3388 et seq.).

                         agricultural nutrients

       Sec. 434.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
     Agency to issue any regulation under the Solid Waste Disposal 
     Act (42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.) that applies to an animal 
     feeding operation, including a concentrated animal feeding 
     operation and a large concentrated animal feeding operation, 
     as such terms are defined in section 122.23 of title 40, Code 
     of Federal Regulations.

          limitation on use of funds for national ocean policy

       Sec. 435.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to further implementation of the coastal and marine 
     spatial planning and ecosystem-based management components of 
     the National Ocean Policy developed under Executive Order 
     13547.

      hunting, fishing, and recreational shooting on federal land

       Sec. 436. (a) Limitation on Use of Funds.--None of the 
     funds made available by this or any other Act for any fiscal 
     year may be used to prohibit the use of or access to Federal 
     land (as such term is defined in section 3 of the Healthy 
     Forests Restoration Act of 2003 (16 U.S.C. 6502)) for 
     hunting, fishing, or recreational shooting if such use or 
     access--
       (1) was not prohibited on such Federal land as of January 
     1, 2013; and
       (2) was conducted in compliance with the resource 
     management plan (as defined in section 101 of such Act (16 
     U.S.C. 6511)) applicable to such Federal land as of January 
     1, 2013.
       (b) Temporary Closures Allowed.--Notwithstanding subsection 
     (a), the Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary of 
     Agriculture may temporarily close, for a period not to exceed 
     30 days, Federal land managed by the Secretary to hunting, 
     fishing, or recreational shooting if the Secretary determines 
     that the temporary closure is necessary to accommodate a 
     special event or for public safety reasons. The Secretary may 
     extend a temporary closure for one additional 90-day period 
     only if the Secretary determines the extension is necessary 
     because of extraordinary weather conditions or for public 
     safety reasons.
       (c) Authority of States.--Nothing in this section shall be 
     construed as affecting the authority, jurisdiction, or 
     responsibility of the several States to manage, control, or 
     regulate fish and resident wildlife under State law or 
     regulations.

               availability of vacant grazing allotments

       Sec. 437.  The Secretary of the Interior, with respect to 
     public lands administered by the Bureau of Land Management, 
     and the Secretary of Agriculture, with respect to the 
     National Forest System lands, shall make vacant grazing 
     allotments available to a holder of a grazing permit or lease 
     issued by either Secretary if the lands covered by the permit 
     or lease or other grazing

[[Page H6865]]

     lands used by the holder of the permit or lease are unusable 
     because of drought or wildfire, as determined by the 
     Secretary concerned. The terms and conditions contained in a 
     permit or lease made available pursuant to this section shall 
     be the same as the terms and conditions of the most recent 
     permit or lease that was applicable to the vacant grazing 
     allotment made available. Section 102 of the National 
     Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4332) shall not 
     apply with respect to any Federal agency action under this 
     section.


                    wind turbine funding limitation

       Sec. 438.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to conduct reviews of site assessment or construction 
     and operation plans for any project that would entail the 
     construction or location of wind turbines less than 24 
     nautical miles from the State of Maryland shoreline.

                           references to act

       Sec. 439.  Except as expressly provided otherwise, any 
     reference to ``this Act'' contained in this division shall be 
     treated as referring only to the provisions of this division.

                          reference to report

       Sec. 440.  Any reference to a ``report accompanying this 
     Act'' contained in this division shall be treated as a 
     reference to House Report 115-238. The effect of such Report 
     shall be limited to this division and shall apply for 
     purposes of determining the allocation of funds provided by, 
     and the implementation of, this division.

                       spending reduction account

       Sec. 441.  $0.
       This division may be cited as the ``Department of the 
     Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
     Act, 2018''.

       DIVISION B--AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG 
     ADMINISTRATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2018

        The following sums are appropriated, out of any money in 
     the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for Agriculture, 
     Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related 
     Agencies programs for fiscal year ending September 30, 2018, 
     and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                         AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS

                  Processing, Research, and Marketing

                        Office of the Secretary

                     (including transfers of funds)

       For necessary expenses of the Office of the Secretary, 
     $21,703,000, of which not to exceed $4,850,000 shall be 
     available for the immediate Office of the Secretary; not to 
     exceed $501,000 shall be available for the Office of Tribal 
     Relations; not to exceed $800,000 shall be available for the 
     Assistant to the Secretary for Rural Development: Provided, 
     That funds made available by this Act to an agency in the 
     Rural Development mission area for salaries and expenses are 
     available to pay the salaries and expenses of up to one 
     administrative support staff for the Assistant; not to exceed 
     $1,448,000 shall be available for the Office of Homeland 
     Security and Emergency Coordination; not to exceed $1,171,000 
     shall be available for the Office of Advocacy and Outreach; 
     not to exceed $3,581,000 shall be available for the Office of 
     the Assistant Secretary for Administration, of which 
     $2,781,000 shall be available for Departmental Administration 
     to provide for necessary expenses for management support 
     services to offices of the Department and for general 
     administration, security, repairs and alterations, and other 
     miscellaneous supplies and expenses not otherwise provided 
     for and necessary for the practical and efficient work of the 
     Department; not to exceed $3,091,000 shall be available for 
     the Office of Assistant Secretary for Congressional Relations 
     to carry out the programs funded by this Act, including 
     programs involving intergovernmental affairs and liaison 
     within the executive branch; and not to exceed $6,261,000 
     shall be available for the Office of Communications:  
     Provided further, That the Secretary of Agriculture is 
     authorized to transfer funds appropriated for any office of 
     the Office of the Secretary to any other office of the Office 
     of the Secretary:  Provided further, That no appropriation 
     for any office shall be increased or decreased by more than 5 
     percent:  Provided further, That not to exceed $11,000 of the 
     amount made available under this paragraph for the immediate 
     Office of the Secretary shall be available for official 
     reception and representation expenses, not otherwise provided 
     for, as determined by the Secretary:  Provided further, That 
     the amount made available under this heading for Departmental 
     Administration shall be reimbursed from applicable 
     appropriations in this Act for travel expenses incident to 
     the holding of hearings as required by 5 U.S.C. 551-558:  
     Provided further, That funds made available under this 
     heading for the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
     Congressional Relations may be transferred to agencies of the 
     Department of Agriculture funded by this Act to maintain 
     personnel at the agency level:  Provided further, That no 
     funds made available under this heading for the Office of 
     Assistant Secretary for Congressional Relations may be 
     obligated after 30 days from the date of enactment of this 
     Act, unless the Secretary has notified the Committees on 
     Appropriations of both Houses of Congress on the allocation 
     of these funds by USDA agency.

                          Executive Operations

                     office of the chief economist

       For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief 
     Economist, $16,777,000, of which $4,000,000 shall be for 
     grants or cooperative agreements for policy research under 7 
     U.S.C. 3155.

                     office of hearings and appeals

       For necessary expenses of the Office of Hearings and 
     Appeals, $13,399,000.

                 office of budget and program analysis

       For necessary expenses of the Office of Budget and Program 
     Analysis, $9,093,000.

                Office of the Chief Information Officer

       For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief 
     Information Officer, $49,538,000, of which not less than 
     $33,000,000 is for cybersecurity requirements of the 
     Department.

                 Office of the Chief Financial Officer

       For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief Financial 
     Officer, $5,836,000.

           Office of the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights

       For necessary expenses of the Office of the Assistant 
     Secretary for Civil Rights, $800,000: Provided, That funds 
     made available by this Act to an agency in the Civil Rights 
     mission area for salaries and expenses are available to pay 
     the salaries and expenses of up to one administrative support 
     staff for the Office.

                         Office of Civil Rights

       For necessary expenses of the Office of Civil Rights, 
     $23,304,000.

                     Hazardous Materials Management

                     (including transfers of funds)

       For necessary expenses of the Department of Agriculture, to 
     comply with the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
     Compensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.) and 
     the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 6901 et 
     seq.), $3,503,000, to remain available until expended:  
     Provided, That appropriations and funds available herein to 
     the Department for Hazardous Materials Management may be 
     transferred to any agency of the Department for its use in 
     meeting all requirements pursuant to the above Acts on 
     Federal and non-Federal lands.

                      Office of Inspector General

       For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
     including employment pursuant to the Inspector General Act of 
     1978 (Public Law 95-452; 5 U.S.C. App.), $95,628,000, 
     including such sums as may be necessary for contracting and 
     other arrangements with public agencies and private persons 
     pursuant to section 6(a)(9) of the Inspector General Act of 
     1978 (Public Law 95-452; 5 U.S.C. App.), and including not to 
     exceed $125,000 for certain confidential operational 
     expenses, including the payment of informants, to be expended 
     under the direction of the Inspector General pursuant to the 
     Inspector General Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-452; 5 U.S.C. 
     App.) and section 1337 of the Agriculture and Food Act of 
     1981 (Public Law 97-98).

                     Office of the General Counsel

       For necessary expenses of the Office of the General 
     Counsel, $42,970,000.

                            Office of Ethics

       For necessary expenses of the Office of Ethics, $3,945,000.

  Office of the Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics

       For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary 
     for Research, Education, and Economics, $800,000: Provided, 
     That funds made available by this Act to an agency in the 
     Research, Education, and Economics mission area for salaries 
     and expenses are available to pay the salaries and expenses 
     of up to one administrative support staff for the Office.

                       Economic Research Service

       For necessary expenses of the Economic Research Service, 
     $76,788,000.

                National Agricultural Statistics Service

       For necessary expenses of the National Agricultural 
     Statistics Service, $183,781,000, of which up to $63,350,000 
     shall be available until expended for the Census of 
     Agriculture:  Provided, That amounts made available for the 
     Census of Agriculture may be used to conduct Current 
     Industrial Report surveys subject to 7 U.S.C. 2204g(d) and 
     (f).

                     Agricultural Research Service

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Agricultural Research Service 
     and for acquisition of lands by donation, exchange, or 
     purchase at a nominal cost not to exceed $100, and for land 
     exchanges where the lands exchanged shall be of equal value 
     or shall be equalized by a payment of money to the grantor 
     which shall not exceed 25 percent of the total value of the 
     land or interests transferred out of Federal ownership, 
     $1,132,625,000:  Provided, That appropriations hereunder 
     shall be available for the operation and maintenance of 
     aircraft and the purchase of not to exceed one for 
     replacement only:  Provided further, That appropriations 
     hereunder shall be available pursuant to section 703 of the 
     Act of September 21, 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the 
     construction, alteration, and repair of buildings and 
     improvements, but unless otherwise provided, the cost of 
     constructing any one building shall not exceed $500,000, 
     except for headhouses or greenhouses which shall each be 
     limited to $1,800,000, except for 10 buildings to be 
     constructed or improved at a cost not to exceed $1,100,000 
     each, and except for two buildings to be constructed at a 
     cost not to exceed $3,000,000 each, and the cost of altering 
     any one building during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 
     percent of the current replacement value of the building or 
     $500,000, whichever is greater:  Provided further, That 
     appropriations hereunder shall be available for entering into 
     lease agreements at any Agricultural Research Service 
     location for the construction of a research facility by a 
     non-Federal entity for use by the Agricultural Research 
     Service and a condition of the lease shall be that any 
     facility shall be owned, operated, and maintained by the non-
     Federal entity and shall be removed upon the expiration or 
     termination of the lease agreement:  Provided

[[Page H6866]]

     further, That the limitations on alterations contained in 
     this Act shall not apply to modernization or replacement of 
     existing facilities at Beltsville, Maryland:  Provided 
     further, That appropriations hereunder shall be available for 
     granting easements at the Beltsville Agricultural Research 
     Center:  Provided further, That the foregoing limitations 
     shall not apply to replacement of buildings needed to carry 
     out the Act of April 24, 1948 (21 U.S.C. 113a):  Provided 
     further, That appropriations hereunder shall be available for 
     granting easements at any Agricultural Research Service 
     location for the construction of a research facility by a 
     non-Federal entity for use by, and acceptable to, the 
     Agricultural Research Service and a condition of the 
     easements shall be that upon completion the facility shall be 
     accepted by the Secretary, subject to the availability of 
     funds herein, if the Secretary finds that acceptance of the 
     facility is in the interest of the United States:  Provided 
     further, That funds may be received from any State, other 
     political subdivision, organization, or individual for the 
     purpose of establishing or operating any research facility or 
     research project of the Agricultural Research Service, as 
     authorized by law.

                        buildings and facilities

       For the acquisition of land, construction, repair, 
     improvement, extension, alteration, and purchase of fixed 
     equipment or facilities as necessary to carry out the 
     agricultural research programs of the Department of 
     Agriculture, where not otherwise provided, $60,000,000 to 
     remain available until expended.

               National Institute of Food and Agriculture

                   research and education activities

       For payments to agricultural experiment stations, for 
     cooperative forestry and other research, for facilities, and 
     for other expenses, $830,402,000, which shall be for the 
     purposes, and in the amounts, specified in the table titled 
     ``National Institute of Food and Agriculture, Research and 
     Education Activities'' in the report accompanying this Act:  
     Provided, That funds for research grants for 1994 
     institutions, education grants for 1890 institutions, the 
     agriculture and food research initiative, veterinary medicine 
     loan repayment, multicultural scholars, graduate fellowship 
     and institution challenge grants, and grants management 
     systems shall remain available until expended:  Provided 
     further, That each institution eligible to receive funds 
     under the Evans-Allen program receives no less than 
     $1,000,000:  Provided further, That funds for education 
     grants for Alaska Native and Native Hawaiian-serving 
     institutions be made available to individual eligible 
     institutions or consortia of eligible institutions with funds 
     awarded equally to each of the States of Alaska and Hawaii:  
     Provided further, That funds for education grants for 1890 
     institutions shall be made available to institutions eligible 
     to receive funds under 7 U.S.C. 3221 and 3222:  Provided 
     further, That not more than 5 percent of the amounts made 
     available by this or any other Act to carry out the 
     Agriculture and Food Research Initiative under 7 U.S.C. 
     450i(b) may be retained by the Secretary of Agriculture to 
     pay administrative costs incurred by the Secretary in 
     carrying out that Act.

              native american institutions endowment fund

       For the Native American Institutions Endowment Fund 
     authorized by Public Law 103-382 (7 U.S.C. 301 note), 
     $11,880,000, to remain available until expended.

                          extension activities

       For payments to States, the District of Columbia, Puerto 
     Rico, Guam, the Virgin Islands, Micronesia, the Northern 
     Marianas, and American Samoa, $475,876,000, which shall be 
     for the purposes, and in the amounts, specified in the table 
     titled ``National Institute of Food and Agriculture, 
     Extension Activities'' in the report accompanying this Act:  
     Provided, That funds for facility improvements at 1890 
     institutions shall remain available until expended:  Provided 
     further, That institutions eligible to receive funds under 7 
     U.S.C. 3221 for cooperative extension receive no less than 
     $1,000,000:  Provided further, That funds for cooperative 
     extension under sections 3(b) and (c) of the Smith-Lever Act 
     (7 U.S.C. 343(b) and (c)) and section 209 of the District of 
     Columbia Public Postsecondary Education Reorganization Act 
     (38-1202.09, D.C. Official Code) shall be available for 
     retirement and employees' compensation costs for extension 
     agents.

                         integrated activities

       For the integrated research, education, and extension 
     grants programs, including necessary administrative expenses, 
     $35,000,000, which shall be for the purposes, and in the 
     amounts, specified in the table titled ``National Institute 
     of Food and Agriculture, Integrated Activities'' in the 
     report accompanying this Act:  Provided, That funds for the 
     Food and Agriculture Defense Initiative shall remain 
     available until September 30, 2019:  Provided further, That 
     notwithstanding any other provision of law, indirect costs 
     shall not be charged against any Extension Implementation 
     Program Area grant awarded under the Integrated research, 
     education, and extension competitive grants program under 
     section 406 of the Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
     Education Reform Act of 1998.

  Office of the Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs

       For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary 
     for Marketing and Regulatory Programs, $800,000: Provided, 
     That funds made available by this Act to an agency in the 
     Marketing and Regulatory Programs mission area for salaries 
     and expenses are available to pay the salaries and expenses 
     of up to one administrative support staff for the Office.

               Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

       For necessary expenses of the Animal and Plant Health 
     Inspection Service, including up to $30,000 for 
     representation allowances and for expenses pursuant to the 
     Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4085), $906,400,000, 
     of which $450,000, to remain available until expended, shall 
     be available for the control of outbreaks of insects, plant 
     diseases, animal diseases and for control of pest animals and 
     birds (``contingency fund'') to the extent necessary to meet 
     emergency conditions; of which $11,520,000, to remain 
     available until expended, shall be used for the cotton pests 
     program for cost share purposes or for debt retirement for 
     active eradication zones; of which $35,250,000, to remain 
     available until expended, shall be for Animal Health 
     Technical Services; of which $700,000 shall be for activities 
     under the authority of the Horse Protection Act of 1970, as 
     amended (15 U.S.C. 1831); of which $55,340,000, to remain 
     available until expended, shall be used to support avian 
     health; of which $4,200,000, to remain available until 
     expended, shall be for information technology infrastructure; 
     of which $160,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
     shall be for specialty crop pests; of which, $8,800,000, to 
     remain available until expended, shall be for field crop and 
     rangeland ecosystem pests; of which $14,500,000, to remain 
     available until expended, shall be for zoonotic disease 
     management; of which $36,500,000, to remain available until 
     expended, shall be for emergency preparedness and response; 
     of which $38,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
     shall be for tree and wood pests; of which $5,725,000, to 
     remain available until expended, shall be for the National 
     Veterinary Stockpile; of which up to $1,500,000, to remain 
     available until expended, shall be for the scrapie program 
     for indemnities; of which $2,500,000, to remain available 
     until expended, shall be for the wildlife damage management 
     program for aviation safety:  Provided, That of amounts 
     available under this heading for wildlife services methods 
     development, $1,000,000 shall remain available until 
     expended:  Provided further, That of amounts available under 
     this heading for the screwworm program, $4,990,000 shall 
     remain available until expended:  Provided further, That no 
     funds shall be used to formulate or administer a brucellosis 
     eradication program for the current fiscal year that does not 
     require minimum matching by the States of at least 40 
     percent:  Provided further, That this appropriation shall be 
     available for the operation and maintenance of aircraft and 
     the purchase of not to exceed five, of which two shall be for 
     replacement only:  Provided further, That in addition, in 
     emergencies which threaten any segment of the agricultural 
     production industry of the United States, the Secretary may 
     transfer from other appropriations or funds available to the 
     agencies or corporations of the Department such sums as may 
     be deemed necessary, to be available only in such emergencies 
     for the arrest and eradication of contagious or infectious 
     disease or pests of animals, poultry, or plants, and for 
     expenses in accordance with sections 10411 and 10417 of the 
     Animal Health Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 8310 and 8316) and 
     sections 431 and 442 of the Plant Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 
     7751 and 7772), and any unexpended balances of funds 
     transferred for such emergency purposes in the preceding 
     fiscal year shall be merged with such transferred amounts:  
     Provided further, That appropriations hereunder shall be 
     available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the repair and 
     alteration of leased buildings and improvements, but unless 
     otherwise provided, the cost of altering any one building 
     during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the 
     current replacement value of the building.
       In fiscal year 2018, the agency is authorized to collect 
     fees to cover the total costs of providing technical 
     assistance, goods, or services requested by States, other 
     political subdivisions, domestic and international 
     organizations, foreign governments, or individuals, provided 
     that such fees are structured such that any entity's 
     liability for such fees is reasonably based on the technical 
     assistance, goods, or services provided to the entity by the 
     agency, and such fees shall be reimbursed to this account, to 
     remain available until expended, without further 
     appropriation, for providing such assistance, goods, or 
     services.

                     Agricultural Marketing Service

                           marketing services

       For necessary expenses of the Agricultural Marketing 
     Service, $77,573,000:  Provided, That this appropriation 
     shall be available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the 
     alteration and repair of buildings and improvements, but the 
     cost of altering any one building during the fiscal year 
     shall not exceed 10 percent of the current replacement value 
     of the building.
       Fees may be collected for the cost of standardization 
     activities, as established by regulation pursuant to section 
     9701 of title 31, United States Code.

                 limitation on administrative expenses

       Not to exceed $61,227,000 (from fees collected) shall be 
     obligated during the current fiscal year for administrative 
     expenses:  Provided, That if crop size is understated and/or 
     other uncontrollable events occur, the agency may exceed this 
     limitation by up to 10 percent with notification to the 
     Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.

    funds for strengthening markets, income, and supply (section 32)

                     (including transfers of funds)

       Funds available under section 32 of the Act of August 24, 
     1935 (7 U.S.C. 612c), shall be used only for commodity 
     program expenses as authorized therein, and other related 
     operating expenses, except for: (1) transfers to the 
     Department of Commerce as authorized by the Fish and Wildlife 
     Act of 1956 (16 U.S.C. 742a et seq.);

[[Page H6867]]

     (2) transfers otherwise provided in this Act; and (3) not 
     more than $20,705,000 for formulation and administration of 
     marketing agreements and orders pursuant to the Agricultural 
     Marketing Agreement Act of 1937 and the Agricultural Act of 
     1961 (Public Law 87-128).

                   payments to states and possessions

       For payments to departments of agriculture, bureaus and 
     departments of markets, and similar agencies for marketing 
     activities under section 204(b) of the Agricultural Marketing 
     Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1623(b)), $1,109,000.

        Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Grain Inspection, Packers and 
     Stockyards Administration, $42,888,000:  Provided, That this 
     appropriation shall be available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 
     2250) for the alteration and repair of buildings and 
     improvements, but the cost of altering any one building 
     during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the 
     current replacement value of the building.

        limitation on inspection and weighing services expenses

       Not to exceed $60,000,000 (from fees collected) shall be 
     obligated during the current fiscal year for inspection and 
     weighing services:  Provided, That if grain export activities 
     require additional supervision and oversight, or other 
     uncontrollable factors occur, this limitation may be exceeded 
     by up to 10 percent with notification to the Committees on 
     Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.

             Office of the Under Secretary for Food Safety

       For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary 
     for Food Safety, $800,000: Provided, That funds made 
     available by this Act to an agency in the Food Safety mission 
     area for salaries and expenses are available to pay the 
     salaries and expenses of up to one administrative support 
     staff for the Office.

                   Food Safety and Inspection Service

       For necessary expenses to carry out services authorized by 
     the Federal Meat Inspection Act, the Poultry Products 
     Inspection Act, and the Egg Products Inspection Act, 
     including not to exceed $50,000 for representation allowances 
     and for expenses pursuant to section 8 of the Act approved 
     August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 1766), $1,038,069,000; and in 
     addition, $1,000,000 may be credited to this account from 
     fees collected for the cost of laboratory accreditation as 
     authorized by section 1327 of the Food, Agriculture, 
     Conservation and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 138f):  
     Provided, That funds provided for the Public Health Data 
     Communication Infrastructure system shall remain available 
     until expended:  Provided further, That no fewer than 148 
     full-time equivalent positions shall be employed during 
     fiscal year 2018 for purposes dedicated solely to inspections 
     and enforcement related to the Humane Methods of Slaughter 
     Act (7 U.S.C. 1901 et seq.):  Provided further, That the Food 
     Safety and Inspection Service shall continue implementation 
     of section 11016 of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 
     2008 (Public Law 110-246) as further clarified by the 
     amendments made in section 12106 of the Agricultural Act of 
     2014 (Public Law 113-79):  Provided further, That this 
     appropriation shall be available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 
     2250) for the alteration and repair of buildings and 
     improvements, but the cost of altering any one building 
     during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the 
     current replacement value of the building.

                                TITLE II

               FARM PRODUCTION AND CONSERVATION PROGRAMS

   Office of the Under Secretary for Farm Production and Conservation

       For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary 
     for Farm Production and Conservation, $875,000: Provided, 
     That funds made available by this Act to an agency in the 
     Farm Production and Conservation mission area for salaries 
     and expenses are available to pay the salaries and expenses 
     of up to one administrative support staff for the Office.

                          Farm Service Agency

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

       For necessary expenses of the Farm Service Agency, 
     $1,166,317,000:  Provided, That not more than 50 percent of 
     the $78,013,000 made available under this heading for 
     information technology related to farm program delivery, 
     including the Modernize and Innovate the Delivery of 
     Agricultural Systems and other farm program delivery systems, 
     may be obligated until the Secretary submits to the 
     Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress, and 
     receives written or electronic notification of receipt from 
     such Committees of, a plan for expenditure that (1) 
     identifies for each project/investment over $25,000 (a) the 
     functional and performance capabilities to be delivered and 
     the mission benefits to be realized, (b) the estimated 
     lifecycle cost, including estimates for development as well 
     as maintenance and operations, and (c) key milestones to be 
     met; (2) demonstrates that each project/investment is (a) 
     consistent with the Farm Service Agency Information 
     Technology Roadmap, (b) being managed in accordance with 
     applicable lifecycle management policies and guidance, and 
     (c) subject to the applicable Department's capital planning 
     and investment control requirements; and (3) has been 
     reviewed by the Government Accountability Office:  Provided 
     further, That the agency shall submit a report by the end of 
     the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018 to the Committees on 
     Appropriations and the Government Accountability Office, that 
     identifies for each project/investment that is operational 
     (a) current performance against key indicators of customer 
     satisfaction, (b) current performance of service level 
     agreements or other technical metrics, (c) current 
     performance against a pre-established cost baseline, (d) a 
     detailed breakdown of current and planned spending on 
     operational enhancements or upgrades, and (e) an assessment 
     of whether the investment continues to meet business needs as 
     intended as well as alternatives to the investment:  Provided 
     further, That the Secretary is authorized to use the 
     services, facilities, and authorities (but not the funds) of 
     the Commodity Credit Corporation to make program payments for 
     all programs administered by the Agency:  Provided further, 
     That other funds made available to the Agency for authorized 
     activities may be advanced to and merged with this account:  
     Provided further, That funds made available to county 
     committees shall remain available until expended:  Provided 
     further, That none of the funds available to the Farm Service 
     Agency shall be used to close Farm Service Agency county 
     offices:  Provided further, That none of the funds available 
     to the Farm Service Agency shall be used to permanently 
     relocate county based employees that would result in an 
     office with two or fewer employees without prior notification 
     and approval of the Committees on Appropriations of both 
     Houses of Congress.

                         state mediation grants

       For grants pursuant to section 502(b) of the Agricultural 
     Credit Act of 1987, as amended (7 U.S.C. 5101-5106), 
     $3,398,000.

               grassroots source water protection program

       For necessary expenses to carry out wellhead or groundwater 
     protection activities under section 1240O of the Food 
     Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839bb-2), $6,000,000, to 
     remain available until expended.

                        dairy indemnity program

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For necessary expenses involved in making indemnity 
     payments to dairy farmers and manufacturers of dairy products 
     under a dairy indemnity program, such sums as may be 
     necessary, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
     That such program is carried out by the Secretary in the same 
     manner as the dairy indemnity program described in the 
     Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, 
     and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001 (Public Law 
     106-387, 114 Stat. 1549A-12).

           agricultural credit insurance fund program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

       For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct 
     and guaranteed farm ownership (7 U.S.C. 1922 et seq.) and 
     operating (7 U.S.C. 1941 et seq.) loans, emergency loans (7 
     U.S.C. 1961 et seq.), Indian tribe land acquisition loans (25 
     U.S.C. 488), boll weevil loans (7 U.S.C. 1989), guaranteed 
     conservation loans (7 U.S.C. 1924 et seq.), and Indian highly 
     fractionated land loans (25 U.S.C. 488) to be available from 
     funds in the Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund, as follows: 
     $2,500,000,000 for guaranteed farm ownership loans and 
     $1,500,000,000 for farm ownership direct loans; 
     $1,593,423,000 for unsubsidized guaranteed operating loans 
     and $1,304,851,000 for direct operating loans; emergency 
     loans, $25,610,000; Indian tribe land acquisition loans, 
     $20,000,000; guaranteed conservation loans, $150,000,000; 
     Indian highly fractionated land loans, $10,000,000; and for 
     boll weevil eradication program loans, $60,000,000:  
     Provided, That the Secretary shall deem the pink bollworm to 
     be a boll weevil for the purpose of boll weevil eradication 
     program loans.
       For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans and grants, 
     including the cost of modifying loans as defined in section 
     502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as follows: farm 
     operating loans, $52,716,000 for direct operating loans, 
     $17,687,000 for unsubsidized guaranteed operating loans, 
     emergency loans, $1,260,000, to remain available until 
     expended; and $2,272,000 for Indian highly fractionated land 
     loans.
       In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry 
     out the direct and guaranteed loan programs, $305,291,000, of 
     which $297,386,000 shall be transferred to and merged with 
     the appropriation for ``Farm Service Agency, Salaries and 
     Expenses''.
       Funds appropriated by this Act to the Agricultural Credit 
     Insurance Program Account for farm ownership, operating and 
     conservation direct loans and guaranteed loans may be 
     transferred among these programs:  Provided, That the 
     Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress are 
     notified at least 15 days in advance of any transfer.

                         Risk Management Agency

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Risk Management Agency, 
     $55,000,000:  Provided, That not to exceed $1,000 shall be 
     available for official reception and representation expenses, 
     as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1506(i).

                 Natural Resources Conservation Service

                        conservation operations

       For necessary expenses for carrying out the provisions of 
     the Act of April 27, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 590a-f), including 
     preparation of conservation plans and establishment of 
     measures to conserve soil and water (including farm 
     irrigation and land drainage and such special measures for 
     soil and water management as may be necessary to prevent 
     floods and the siltation of reservoirs and to control 
     agricultural related pollutants); operation of conservation 
     plant materials centers; classification and mapping of soil; 
     dissemination

[[Page H6868]]

     of information; acquisition of lands, water, and interests 
     therein for use in the plant materials program by donation, 
     exchange, or purchase at a nominal cost not to exceed $100 
     pursuant to the Act of August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 428a); 
     purchase and erection or alteration or improvement of 
     permanent and temporary buildings; and operation and 
     maintenance of aircraft, $858,911,000, to remain available 
     until September 30, 2019:  Provided, That appropriations 
     hereunder shall be available pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2250 for 
     construction and improvement of buildings and public 
     improvements at plant materials centers, except that the cost 
     of alterations and improvements to other buildings and other 
     public improvements shall not exceed $250,000:  Provided 
     further, That when buildings or other structures are erected 
     on non-Federal land, that the right to use such land is 
     obtained as provided in 7 U.S.C. 2250a.

               watershed and flood prevention operations

       For necessary expenses to carry out preventive measures, 
     including but not limited to surveys and investigations, 
     engineering operations, works of improvement, and changes in 
     use of land, in accordance with the Watershed Protection and 
     Flood Prevention Act (16 U.S.C. 1001-1005 and 1007-1009) and 
     in accordance with the provisions of laws relating to the 
     activities of the Department, $40,000,000, to remain 
     available until expended:  Provided, That of the amounts made 
     available under this heading, $20,000,000 shall be allocated 
     to projects and activities that can commence promptly 
     following enactment; that address regional priorities for 
     flood prevention, agricultural water management, inefficient 
     irrigation systems, fish and wildlife habitat, or watershed 
     protection; or that address authorized ongoing projects under 
     the authorities of section 13 of the Flood Control Act of 
     December 22, 1944 (Public Law 78-534) with a primary purpose 
     of watershed protection by preventing floodwater damage and 
     stabilizing stream channels, tributaries, and banks to reduce 
     erosion and sediment transport.

                    watershed rehabilitation program

       Under the authorities of section 14 of the Watershed 
     Protection and Flood Prevention Act, $10,000,000 is provided: 
     Provided, That of the amounts made available under this 
     heading, $5,000,000 shall remain available until expended for 
     watershed rehabilitation projects in states with high-hazard 
     dams and other watershed structures and that have recently 
     incurred flooding events which caused fatalities.

                              CORPORATIONS

       The following corporations and agencies are hereby 
     authorized to make expenditures, within the limits of funds 
     and borrowing authority available to each such corporation or 
     agency and in accord with law, and to make contracts and 
     commitments without regard to fiscal year limitations as 
     provided by section 104 of the Government Corporation Control 
     Act as may be necessary in carrying out the programs set 
     forth in the budget for the current fiscal year for such 
     corporation or agency, except as hereinafter provided.

                Federal Crop Insurance Corporation Fund

       For payments as authorized by section 516 of the Federal 
     Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1516), such sums as may be 
     necessary, to remain available until expended.

                   Commodity Credit Corporation Fund

                 reimbursement for net realized losses

                     (including transfers of funds)

       For the current fiscal year, such sums as may be necessary 
     to reimburse the Commodity Credit Corporation for net 
     realized losses sustained, but not previously reimbursed, 
     pursuant to section 2 of the Act of August 17, 1961 (15 
     U.S.C. 713a-11):  Provided, That of the funds available to 
     the Commodity Credit Corporation under section 11 of the 
     Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714i) for 
     the conduct of its business with the Foreign Agricultural 
     Service, up to $5,000,000 may be transferred to and used by 
     the Foreign Agricultural Service for information resource 
     management activities of the Foreign Agricultural Service 
     that are not related to Commodity Credit Corporation 
     business.

                       hazardous waste management

                        (limitation on expenses)

       For the current fiscal year, the Commodity Credit 
     Corporation shall not expend more than $5,000,000 for site 
     investigation and cleanup expenses, and operations and 
     maintenance expenses to comply with the requirement of 
     section 107(g) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
     Compensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9607(g)), and 
     section 6001 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act 
     (42 U.S.C. 6961).

                               TITLE III

                       RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS

                           Rural Development

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

       For necessary expenses for carrying out the administration 
     and implementation of Rural Development programs, including 
     activities with institutions concerning the development and 
     operation of agricultural cooperatives; and for cooperative 
     agreements; $220,835,000:  Provided, That notwithstanding any 
     other provision of law, funds appropriated under this heading 
     may be used for advertising and promotional activities that 
     support Rural Development programs.

                         Rural Housing Service

              rural housing insurance fund program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

       For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct 
     and guaranteed loans as authorized by title V of the Housing 
     Act of 1949, to be available from funds in the rural housing 
     insurance fund, as follows: $900,000,000 shall be for direct 
     loans and $24,000,000,000 shall be for unsubsidized 
     guaranteed loans; $24,000,000 for section 504 housing repair 
     loans; $28,398,000 for section 515 rental housing; 
     $230,000,000 for section 538 guaranteed multi-family housing 
     loans; $10,000,000 for credit sales of single family housing 
     acquired property; $5,000,000 for section 523 self-help 
     housing land development loans; and $5,000,000 for section 
     524 site development loans: Provided, That section 
     514(f)(3)(A) of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 
     1484(f)(3)(A)) is amended by striking ``United States'' and 
     inserting ``United States,'' and by inserting before the 
     semicolon the following: ``, or a person legally admitted to 
     the United States and authorized to work in agriculture''.
       For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, including the 
     cost of modifying loans, as defined in section 502 of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as follows: section 502 
     loans, $34,650,000 shall be for direct loans; section 504 
     housing repair loans, $2,959,000; section 523 self-help 
     housing land development loans, $368,000; section 524 site 
     development loans, $58,000; and repair, rehabilitation, and 
     new construction of section 515 rental housing, $7,472,000:  
     Provided, That to support the loan program level for section 
     538 guaranteed loans made available under this heading the 
     Secretary may charge or adjust any fees to cover the 
     projected cost of such loan guarantees pursuant to the 
     provisions of the Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661 et 
     seq.), and the interest on such loans may not be subsidized:  
     Provided further, That applicants in communities that have a 
     current rural area waiver under section 541 of the Housing 
     Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490q) shall be treated as living in a 
     rural area for purposes of section 502 guaranteed loans 
     provided under this heading:  Provided further, That of the 
     amounts available under this paragraph for section 502 direct 
     loans, no less than $5,000,000 shall be available for direct 
     loans for individuals whose homes will be built pursuant to a 
     program funded with a mutual and self-help housing grant 
     authorized by section 523 of the Housing Act of 1949 until 
     June 1, 2018:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall 
     implement provisions to provide incentives to nonprofit 
     organizations and public housing authorities to facilitate 
     the acquisition of Rural Housing Service (RHS) multifamily 
     housing properties by such nonprofit organizations and public 
     housing authorities that commit to keep such properties in 
     the RHS multifamily housing program for a period of time as 
     determined by the Secretary, with such incentives to include, 
     but not be limited to, the following: allow such nonprofit 
     entities and public housing authorities to earn a Return on 
     Investment (ROI) on their own resources to include proceeds 
     from low income housing tax credit syndication, own 
     contributions, grants, and developer loans at favorable rates 
     and terms, invested in a deal; and allow reimbursement of 
     organizational costs associated with owner's oversight of 
     asset referred to as ``Asset Management Fee'' (AMF) of up to 
     $7,500 per property.
       In addition, for the cost of direct loans, grants, and 
     contracts, as authorized by sections 514 and 516 of the 
     Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1484, 1486), $10,008,000, to 
     remain available until expended, for direct farm labor 
     housing loans and domestic farm labor housing grants and 
     contracts:  Provided, That any balances available for the 
     Farm Labor Program Account shall be transferred to and merged 
     with this account.
       In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry 
     out the direct and guaranteed loan programs, $401,300,000 
     shall be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for 
     ``Rural Development, Salaries and Expenses''.

                       rental assistance program

       For rental assistance agreements entered into or renewed 
     pursuant to the authority under section 521(a)(2) of the 
     Housing Act of 1949 or agreements entered into in lieu of 
     debt forgiveness or payments for eligible households as 
     authorized by section 502(c)(5)(D) of the Housing Act of 
     1949, $1,345,293,000, of which $40,000,000 shall be available 
     until September 30, 2019; and in addition such sums as may be 
     necessary, as authorized by section 521(c) of the Act, to 
     liquidate debt incurred prior to fiscal year 1992 to carry 
     out the rental assistance program under section 521(a)(2) of 
     the Act:  Provided, That rental assistance agreements entered 
     into or renewed during the current fiscal year shall be 
     funded for a one-year period:  Provided further, That any 
     unexpended balances remaining at the end of such one-year 
     agreements may be transferred and used for purposes of any 
     debt reduction; maintenance, repair, or rehabilitation of any 
     existing projects; preservation; and rental assistance 
     activities authorized under title V of the Act:  Provided 
     further, That rental assistance provided under agreements 
     entered into prior to fiscal year 2018 for a farm labor 
     multi-family housing project financed under section 514 or 
     516 of the Act may not be recaptured for use in another 
     project until such assistance has remained unused for a 
     period of 12 consecutive months, if such project has a 
     waiting list of tenants seeking such assistance or the 
     project has rental assistance eligible tenants who are not 
     receiving such assistance:  Provided further, That such 
     recaptured rental assistance shall, to the extent 
     practicable, be applied to another farm labor multi-family 
     housing project financed under section 514 or 516 of the Act: 
      Provided further, That except as provided in the third 
     proviso under this heading and notwithstanding any other 
     provision of the Act, the Secretary may recapture rental 
     assistance provided under agreements entered into prior to 
     fiscal year 2018 for a project that the Secretary determines 
     no longer needs rental assistance and use such recaptured 
     funds for current needs.

[[Page H6869]]

  


          multi-family housing revitalization program account

       For the rural housing voucher program as authorized under 
     section 542 of the Housing Act of 1949, but notwithstanding 
     subsection (b) of such section, and for additional costs to 
     conduct a demonstration program for the preservation and 
     revitalization of multi-family rental housing properties 
     described in this paragraph, $35,000,000, to remain available 
     until expended:  Provided, That of the funds made available 
     under this heading, $20,000,000, shall be available for rural 
     housing vouchers to any low-income household (including those 
     not receiving rental assistance) residing in a property 
     financed with a section 515 loan which has been prepaid after 
     September 30, 2005:  Provided further, That the amount of 
     such voucher shall be the difference between comparable 
     market rent for the section 515 unit and the tenant paid rent 
     for such unit:  Provided further, That funds made available 
     for such vouchers shall be subject to the availability of 
     annual appropriations:  Provided further, That the Secretary 
     shall, to the maximum extent practicable, administer such 
     vouchers with current regulations and administrative guidance 
     applicable to section 8 housing vouchers administered by the 
     Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development: 
      Provided further, That if the Secretary determines that the 
     amount made available for vouchers in this or any other Act 
     is not needed for vouchers, the Secretary may use such funds 
     for the demonstration program for the preservation and 
     revitalization of multi-family rental housing properties 
     described in this paragraph:  Provided further, That of the 
     funds made available under this heading, $15,000,000 shall be 
     available for a demonstration program for the preservation 
     and revitalization of the sections 514, 515, and 516 multi-
     family rental housing properties to restructure existing USDA 
     multi-family housing loans, as the Secretary deems 
     appropriate, expressly for the purposes of ensuring the 
     project has sufficient resources to preserve the project for 
     the purpose of providing safe and affordable housing for low-
     income residents and farm laborers including reducing or 
     eliminating interest; deferring loan payments, subordinating, 
     reducing or reamortizing loan debt; and other financial 
     assistance including advances, payments and incentives 
     (including the ability of owners to obtain reasonable returns 
     on investment) required by the Secretary:  Provided further, 
     That the Secretary shall as part of the preservation and 
     revitalization agreement obtain a restrictive use agreement 
     consistent with the terms of the restructuring:  Provided 
     further, That if the Secretary determines that additional 
     funds for vouchers described in this paragraph are needed, 
     funds for the preservation and revitalization demonstration 
     program may be used for such vouchers:  Provided further, 
     That if Congress enacts legislation to permanently authorize 
     a multi-family rental housing loan restructuring program 
     similar to the demonstration program described herein, the 
     Secretary may use funds made available for the demonstration 
     program under this heading to carry out such legislation with 
     the prior approval of the Committees on Appropriations of 
     both Houses of Congress:  Provided further, That in addition 
     to any other available funds, the Secretary may expend not 
     more than $1,000,000 total, from the program funds made 
     available under this heading, for administrative expenses for 
     activities funded under this heading.

                  mutual and self-help housing grants

       For grants and contracts pursuant to section 523(b)(1)(A) 
     of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490c), $25,000,000, to 
     remain available until expended.

               rural community facilities program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

       For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct 
     and guaranteed loans as authorized by section 306 and 
     described in section 381E(d)(1) of the Consolidated Farm and 
     Rural Development Act, $2,600,000,000 for direct loans and 
     $148,305,000 for guaranteed loans.
       For the cost of guaranteed loans, including the cost of 
     modifying loans, as defined in section 502 of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974, $4,849,000, to remain 
     available until expended.

                  Rural Business--Cooperative Service

                     rural business program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

       For the cost of loan guarantees and grants, for the rural 
     business development programs authorized by section 310B and 
     described in subsections (a), (c), (f) and (g) of section 
     310B of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, 
     $58,251,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
     That of the amount appropriated under this heading, not to 
     exceed $500,000 shall be made available for one grant to a 
     qualified national organization to provide technical 
     assistance for rural transportation in order to promote 
     economic development and $5,000,000 shall be for grants to 
     the Delta Regional Authority (7 U.S.C. 2009aa et seq.) and 
     the Appalachian Regional Commission (40 U.S.C. 14101 et seq.) 
     for any Rural Community Advancement Program purpose as 
     described in section 381E(d) of the Consolidated Farm and 
     Rural Development Act, of which not more than 5 percent may 
     be used for administrative expenses:  Provided further, That 
     $4,000,000 of the amount appropriated under this heading 
     shall be for business grants to benefit Federally Recognized 
     Native American Tribes, including $250,000 for a grant to a 
     qualified national organization to provide technical 
     assistance for rural transportation in order to promote 
     economic development:  Provided further, That sections 381E-H 
     and 381N of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act 
     are not applicable to funds made available under this 
     heading.

              intermediary relending program fund account

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For the principal amount of direct loans, as authorized by 
     the Intermediary Relending Program Fund Account (7 U.S.C. 
     1936b), $17,500,000.
       For the cost of direct loans, $4,041,000, as authorized by 
     the Intermediary Relending Program Fund Account (7 U.S.C. 
     1936b), of which $404,100 shall be available through June 30, 
     2018, for Federally Recognized Native American Tribes; and of 
     which $606,150 shall be available through June 30, 2018, for 
     Mississippi Delta Region counties (as determined in 
     accordance with Public Law 100-460):  Provided, That such 
     costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be 
     as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
     1974.
       In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the 
     direct loan programs, $4,230,000 shall be transferred to and 
     merged with the appropriation for ``Rural Development, 
     Salaries and Expenses''.

            rural economic development loans program account

                    (including rescission of funds)

       For the principal amount of direct loans, as authorized 
     under section 313 of the Rural Electrification Act, for the 
     purpose of promoting rural economic development and job 
     creation projects, $33,077,000.
       Of the funds derived from interest on the cushion of credit 
     payments, as authorized by section 313 of the Rural 
     Electrification Act of 1936, $196,000,000 shall not be 
     obligated and $196,000,000 are rescinded.
       The cost of grants authorized under section 313 of the 
     Rural Electrification Act, for the purpose of promoting rural 
     economic development and job creation projects shall not 
     exceed $10,000,000.

                  rural cooperative development grants

       For rural cooperative development grants authorized under 
     section 310B(e) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
     Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1932), $21,000,000, of which 
     $2,500,000 shall be for cooperative agreements for the 
     appropriate technology transfer for rural areas program:  
     Provided, That not to exceed $3,000,000 shall be for grants 
     for cooperative development centers, individual cooperatives, 
     or groups of cooperatives that serve socially disadvantaged 
     groups and a majority of the boards of directors or governing 
     boards of which are comprised of individuals who are members 
     of socially disadvantaged groups; and of which $10,000,000, 
     to remain available until expended, shall be for value-added 
     agricultural product market development grants, as authorized 
     by section 231 of the Agricultural Risk Protection Act of 
     2000 (7 U.S.C. 1632a).

                    rural energy for america program

       For the cost of a program of loan guarantees, under the 
     same terms and conditions as authorized by section 9007 of 
     the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 
     8107), $291,000:  Provided, That the cost of loan guarantees, 
     including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as 
     defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
     1974.

                        Rural Utilities Service

             rural water and waste disposal program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

       For the cost of direct loans, loan guarantees, and grants 
     for the rural water, waste water, waste disposal, and solid 
     waste management programs authorized by sections 306, 306A, 
     306C, 306D, 306E, and 310B and described in sections 
     306C(a)(2), 306D, 306E, and 381E(d)(2) of the Consolidated 
     Farm and Rural Development Act, $472,700,000, to remain 
     available until expended, of which not to exceed $1,000,000 
     shall be available for the rural utilities program described 
     in section 306(a)(2)(B) of such Act, and of which not to 
     exceed $993,000 shall be available for the rural utilities 
     program described in section 306E of such Act:  Provided, 
     That $45,000,000 of the amount appropriated under this 
     heading shall be for loans and grants including water and 
     waste disposal systems grants authorized by section 
     306C(a)(2)(B) and section 306D of the Consolidated Farm and 
     Rural Development Act, and Federally Recognized Native 
     American Tribes authorized by 306C(a)(1) of such Act:  
     Provided further, That funding provided for section 306D of 
     the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act may be 
     provided to a consortium formed pursuant to section 325 of 
     Public Law 105-83:  Provided further, That not more than 2 
     percent of the funding provided for section 306D of the 
     Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act may be used by 
     the State of Alaska for training and technical assistance 
     programs and not more than 2 percent of the funding provided 
     for section 306D of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
     Development Act may be used by a consortium formed pursuant 
     to section 325 of Public Law 105-83 for training and 
     technical assistance programs:  Provided further, That not to 
     exceed $20,000,000 of the amount appropriated under this 
     heading shall be for technical assistance grants for rural 
     water and waste systems pursuant to section 306(a)(14) of 
     such Act, unless the Secretary makes a determination of 
     extreme need, of which $6,500,000 shall be made available for 
     a grant to a qualified nonprofit multi-State regional 
     technical assistance organization, with experience in working 
     with small communities on water and waste water problems, the 
     principal purpose of such grant shall be to assist rural 
     communities with populations of 3,300 or less, in improving 
     the planning, financing, development, operation, and 
     management of water

[[Page H6870]]

     and waste water systems, and of which not less than $800,000 
     shall be for a qualified national Native American 
     organization to provide technical assistance for rural water 
     systems for tribal communities:  Provided further, That not 
     to exceed $16,897,000 of the amount appropriated under this 
     heading shall be for contracting with qualified national 
     organizations for a circuit rider program to provide 
     technical assistance for rural water systems:  Provided 
     further, That not to exceed $4,000,000 shall be for solid 
     waste management grants:  Provided further, That sections 
     381E-H and 381N of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
     Development Act are not applicable to the funds made 
     available under this heading.

   rural electrification and telecommunications loans program account

                     (including transfer of funds)

       The principal amount of direct and guaranteed loans as 
     authorized by sections 305 and 306 of the Rural 
     Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 935 and 936) shall be 
     made as follows: loans made pursuant to section 306 of that 
     Act, rural electric, $5,500,000,000; guaranteed underwriting 
     loans pursuant to section 313A, $750,000,000; 5 percent rural 
     telecommunications loans, cost of money rural 
     telecommunications loans, and for loans made pursuant to 
     section 306 of that Act, rural telecommunications loans, 
     $690,000,000:  Provided, That up to $2,000,000,000 shall be 
     used for the construction, acquisition, or improvement of 
     fossil-fueled electric generating plants (whether new or 
     existing) that utilize carbon sequestration systems.
       For the cost of direct loans as authorized by section 305 
     of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 935), 
     including the cost of modifying loans, as defined in section 
     502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, cost of money 
     rural telecommunications loans, $863,000.
       In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry 
     out the direct and guaranteed loan programs, $30,750,000, 
     which shall be transferred to and merged with the 
     appropriation for ``Rural Development, Salaries and 
     Expenses''.

                           broadband program

       For the principal amount of broadband telecommunication 
     loans, $26,991,000.
       For the cost of broadband loans, as authorized by section 
     601 of the Rural Electrification Act, $4,521,000, to remain 
     available until expended:  Provided, That the cost of direct 
     loans shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
     Budget Act of 1974.

                 Rural Economic Infrastructure Account

                     (including transfers of funds)

       For grants for very low-income housing repair and rural 
     housing preservation made by the Rural Housing Service, as 
     authorized by 42 U.S.C. 1474 and 1490m; for rural community 
     facilities, as authorized by section 306 and described in 
     section 381E(d)(1) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
     Development Act; for grants for telemedicine distance 
     learning services in rural areas, as authorized by 7 U.S.C 
     950aaa et seq.; and for grants to finance broadband 
     transmission in rural areas eligible for Distance Learning 
     and Telemedicine Program benefits, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 
     950aaa; $122,692,000, to remain available until expended:
        Provided, That sections 381E-H and 381N of the 
     Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act are not 
     applicable to the funds made available under this heading:  
     Provided further, That any balances available for the very 
     low-income housing repair and rural housing preservation 
     grants in the ``Rural Housing Assistance Grant'' account, the 
     rural community facilities grants in the ``Rural Community 
     Facilities Program Account'', and the telemedicine and 
     distance learning grants and broadband grants in the 
     ``Distance Learning, Telemedicine and Broadband Program'' 
     account shall be transferred to and merged with funds made 
     available under this heading:  Provided further, That of the 
     amounts provided under this heading, not more than 
     $60,000,000 shall be made available through June 30, 2018, 
     for jurisdictions in the Appalachian region, as defined by 40 
     U.S.C. 14102(a)(1):  Provided further, That eligible 
     activities under each of the Rural Housing Assistance Grants 
     program, Rural Community Facilities program, and Distance 
     Learning, Telemedicine and Broadband program accounts shall 
     receive not less than 15 percent of the amounts provided 
     under this heading.

                                TITLE IV

                         DOMESTIC FOOD PROGRAMS

    Office of the Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition, and Consumer 
                                Services

       For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary 
     for Food, Nutrition, and Consumer Services, $800,000: 
     Provided, That funds made available by this Act to an agency 
     in the Food, Nutrition, and Consumer services mission area 
     for salaries and expenses are available to pay the salaries 
     and expenses of up to one administrative support staff for 
     the Office.

                       Food and Nutrition Service

                        child nutrition programs

                     (including transfers of funds)

       For necessary expenses to carry out the Richard B. Russell 
     National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.), except 
     section 21, and the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 
     1771 et seq.), except sections 17 and 21; $24,280,944,000 to 
     remain available through September 30, 2019, of which such 
     sums as are made available under section 14222(b)(1) of the 
     Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-
     246), as amended by this Act, shall be merged with and 
     available for the same time period and purposes as provided 
     herein:  Provided, That of the total amount available, 
     $17,004,000 shall be available to carry out section 19 of the 
     Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.):  
     Provided further, That of the total amount available, 
     $25,000,000 shall be available to provide competitive grants 
     to State agencies for subgrants to local educational agencies 
     and schools to purchase the equipment, with a value of 
     greater than $1,000, needed to serve healthier meals, improve 
     food safety, and to help support the establishment, 
     maintenance, or expansion of the school breakfast program:  
     Provided further, That of the total amount available, 
     $23,000,000 shall remain available until expended to carry 
     out section 749(g) of the Agriculture Appropriations Act of 
     2010 (Public Law 111-80):  Provided further, That section 
     26(d) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 
     U.S.C. 1769g(d)) is amended in the first sentence by striking 
     ``2010 through 2017'' and inserting ``2010 through 2018'':  
     Provided further, That section 9(h)(3) of the Richard B. 
     Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1758(h)(3)) is 
     amended in the first sentence by striking ``for fiscal year 
     2017'' and inserting ``for fiscal year 2018'':  Provided 
     further, That section 9(h)(4) of the Richard B. Russell 
     National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1758(h)(4)) is amended 
     in the first sentence by striking ``for fiscal year 2017'' 
     and inserting ``for fiscal year 2018''.

special supplemental nutrition program for women, infants, and children 
                                 (wic)

       For necessary expenses to carry out the special 
     supplemental nutrition program as authorized by section 17 of 
     the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786), 
     $6,150,000,000, to remain available through September 30, 
     2019:  Provided, That notwithstanding section 17(h)(10) of 
     the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786(h)(10)), not 
     less than $60,000,000 shall be used for breastfeeding peer 
     counselors and other related activities, and $13,600,000 
     shall be used for infrastructure:  Provided further, That 
     none of the funds provided in this account shall be available 
     for the purchase of infant formula except in accordance with 
     the cost containment and competitive bidding requirements 
     specified in section 17 of such Act:  Provided further, That 
     none of the funds provided shall be available for activities 
     that are not fully reimbursed by other Federal Government 
     departments or agencies unless authorized by section 17 of 
     such Act:  Provided further, That upon termination of a 
     federally mandated vendor moratorium and subject to terms and 
     conditions established by the Secretary, the Secretary may 
     waive the requirement at 7 CFR 246.12(g)(6) at the request of 
     a State agency.

               supplemental nutrition assistance program

       For necessary expenses to carry out the Food and Nutrition 
     Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.), $73,609,950,000, of 
     which $3,000,000,000, to remain available through December 
     31, 2019, shall be placed in reserve for use only in such 
     amounts and at such times as may become necessary to carry 
     out program operations:  Provided, That funds provided herein 
     shall be expended in accordance with section 16 of the Food 
     and Nutrition Act of 2008:  Provided further, That of the 
     funds made available under this heading, $998,000 may be used 
     to provide nutrition education services to State agencies and 
     Federally Recognized Tribes participating in the Food 
     Distribution Program on Indian Reservations:  Provided 
     further, That this appropriation shall be subject to any work 
     registration or workfare requirements as may be required by 
     law:  Provided further, That funds made available for 
     Employment and Training under this heading shall remain 
     available through September 30, 2019:  Provided further, That 
     funds made available under this heading for section 28(d)(1), 
     section 4(b), and section 27(a) of the Food and Nutrition Act 
     of 2008 shall remain available through September 30, 2019:  
     Provided further, That none of the funds made available under 
     this heading may be obligated or expended in contravention of 
     section 213A of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
     1183A):  Provided further, That, subject to section 731 of 
     this Act, funds made available under this heading may be used 
     to enter into contracts and employ staff to conduct studies, 
     evaluations, or to conduct activities related to program 
     integrity provided that such activities are authorized by the 
     Food and Nutrition Act of 2008.

                      commodity assistance program

       For necessary expenses to carry out disaster assistance and 
     the Commodity Supplemental Food Program as authorized by 
     section 4(a) of the Agriculture and Consumer Protection Act 
     of 1973 (7 U.S.C. 612c note); the Emergency Food Assistance 
     Act of 1983; special assistance for the nuclear affected 
     islands, as authorized by section 103(f)(2) of the Compact of 
     Free Association Amendments Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-188); 
     and the Farmers' Market Nutrition Program, as authorized by 
     section 17(m) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, 
     $317,139,000, to remain available through September 30, 2019: 
      Provided, That none of these funds shall be available to 
     reimburse the Commodity Credit Corporation for commodities 
     donated to the program:  Provided further, That 
     notwithstanding any other provision of law, effective with 
     funds made available in fiscal year 2018 to support the 
     Seniors Farmers' Market Nutrition Program, as authorized by 
     section 4402 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 
     2002, such funds shall remain available through September 30, 
     2019:  Provided further, That of the funds made available 
     under section 27(a) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 
     U.S.C. 2036(a)), the Secretary may use up to 10 percent for 
     costs associated with the distribution of commodities.

                   nutrition programs administration

       For necessary administrative expenses of the Food and 
     Nutrition Service for carrying out any domestic nutrition 
     assistance program, $148,541,000:  Provided, That of the 
     funds provided herein, $2,000,000 shall be used for the 
     purposes of section 4404 of Public Law 107-171, as amended by 
     section 4401 of Public Law 110-246.

[[Page H6871]]

  


                                TITLE V

                FOREIGN ASSISTANCE AND RELATED PROGRAMS

   Office of the Under Secretary for Trade and Foreign Agricultural 
                                Affairs

       For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary 
     for Trade and Foreign Agricultural Affairs, $875,000: 
     Provided, That funds made available by this Act to an agency 
     in the Trade and Foreign Agricultural Affairs mission area 
     for salaries and expenses are available to pay the salaries 
     and expenses of up to one administrative support staff for 
     the Office.

                      Foreign Agricultural Service

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

       For necessary expenses of the Foreign Agricultural Service, 
     including not to exceed $250,000 for representation 
     allowances and for expenses pursuant to section 8 of the Act 
     approved August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 1766), $195,268,000:  
     Provided, That the Service may utilize advances of funds, or 
     reimburse this appropriation for expenditures made on behalf 
     of Federal agencies, public and private organizations and 
     institutions under agreements executed pursuant to the 
     agricultural food production assistance programs (7 U.S.C. 
     1737) and the foreign assistance programs of the United 
     States Agency for International Development:  Provided 
     further, That funds made available for middle-income country 
     training programs, funds made available for the Borlaug 
     International Agricultural Science and Technology Fellowship 
     program, and up to $2,000,000 of the Foreign Agricultural 
     Service appropriation solely for the purpose of offsetting 
     fluctuations in international currency exchange rates, 
     subject to documentation by the Foreign Agricultural Service, 
     shall remain available until expended.

  food for peace title i direct credit and food for progress program 
                                account

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For administrative expenses to carry out the credit program 
     of title I, Food for Peace Act (Public Law 83-480) and the 
     Food for Progress Act of 1985, $149,000, shall be transferred 
     to and merged with the appropriation for ``Farm Service 
     Agency, Salaries and Expenses''.

                     food for peace title ii grants

       For expenses during the current fiscal year, not otherwise 
     recoverable, and unrecovered prior years' costs, including 
     interest thereon, under the Food for Peace Act (Public Law 
     83-480), for commodities supplied in connection with 
     dispositions abroad under title II of said Act, 
     $1,400,000,000, to remain available until expended:  
     Provided, That the Administrator of the United States Agency 
     for International Development shall in each instance notify 
     in writing the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
     Congress, the Committee on Agriculture of the House, and the 
     Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the 
     Senate and make publicly available online the amount and use 
     of authority in section 202(a) of the Food for Peace Act (7 
     U.S.C. 1722(a)) to notwithstand the minimum level of 
     nonemergency assistance required by section 412(e)(2) of the 
     Food for Peace Act (7 U.S.C. 1736f(e)(2)) not later than 15 
     days after the date of such action.

  mcgovern-dole international food for education and child nutrition 
                             program grants

       For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
     section 3107 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 
     2002 (7 U.S.C. 1736o-1), $201,626,000, to remain available 
     until expended:  Provided, That the Commodity Credit 
     Corporation is authorized to provide the services, 
     facilities, and authorities for the purpose of implementing 
     such section, subject to reimbursement from amounts provided 
     herein.

 commodity credit corporation export (loans) credit guarantee program 
                                account

                     (including transfers of funds)

       For administrative expenses to carry out the Commodity 
     Credit Corporation's Export Guarantee Program, GSM 102 and 
     GSM 103, $6,735,000; to cover common overhead expenses as 
     permitted by section 11 of the Commodity Credit Corporation 
     Charter Act and in conformity with the Federal Credit Reform 
     Act of 1990, of which $6,382,000 shall be transferred to and 
     merged with the appropriation for ``Foreign Agricultural 
     Service, Salaries and Expenses'', and of which $353,000 shall 
     be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for 
     ``Farm Service Agency, Salaries and Expenses''.

                                TITLE VI

           RELATED AGENCIES AND FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION

                Department of Health and Human Services

                      food and drug administration

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Food and Drug Administration, 
     including hire and purchase of passenger motor vehicles; for 
     payment of space rental and related costs pursuant to Public 
     Law 92-313 for programs and activities of the Food and Drug 
     Administration that are funded by this Act; for rental of 
     special purpose space in the District of Columbia or 
     elsewhere; in addition to amounts appropriated to the FDA 
     Innovation Account, for carrying out the activities described 
     in section 1002(b)(4) of the 21st Century Cures Act (Public 
     Law 114-255); for miscellaneous and emergency expenses of 
     enforcement activities, authorized and approved by the 
     Secretary and to be accounted for solely on the Secretary's 
     certificate, not to exceed $25,000; and notwithstanding 
     section 521 of Public Law 107-188; $5,145,945,000:  Provided, 
     That of the amount provided under this heading, $937,434,000 
     shall be derived from prescription drug user fees authorized 
     by 21 U.S.C. 379h, and shall be credited to this account and 
     remain available until expended; $193,291,000 shall be 
     derived from medical device user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 
     379j, and shall be credited to this account and remain 
     available until expended; $493,600,000 shall be derived from 
     human generic drug user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-42, 
     and shall be credited to this account and remain available 
     until expended; $54,000,000 shall be derived from biosimilar 
     biological product user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-52, 
     and shall be credited to this account and remain available 
     until expended; $24,142,000 shall be derived from animal drug 
     user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-12, and shall be 
     credited to this account and remain available until expended; 
     $12,100,000 shall be derived from generic new animal drug 
     user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-21, and shall be 
     credited to this account and remain available until expended; 
     $672,000,000 shall be derived from tobacco product user fees 
     authorized by 21 U.S.C. 387s, and shall be credited to this 
     account and remain available until expended:  Provided 
     further, That in addition to and notwithstanding any other 
     provision under this heading, amounts collected for 
     prescription drug user fees, medical device user fees, human 
     generic drug user fees, biosimilar biological product user 
     fees, animal drug user fees, and generic new animal drug user 
     fees that exceed the respective fiscal year 2018 limitations 
     are appropriated and shall be credited to this account and 
     remain available until expended:  Provided further, That fees 
     derived from prescription drug, medical device, human generic 
     drug, biosimilar biological product, animal drug, and generic 
     new animal drug assessments for fiscal year 2018, including 
     any such fees collected prior to fiscal year 2018 but 
     credited for fiscal year 2018, shall be subject to the fiscal 
     year 2018 limitations:  Provided further, That the Secretary 
     may accept payment during fiscal year 2018 of user fees 
     specified under this heading and authorized for fiscal year 
     2019, prior to the due date for such fees, and that amounts 
     of such fees assessed for fiscal year 2019 for which the 
     Secretary accepts payment in fiscal year 2018 shall not be 
     included in amounts under this heading:  Provided further, 
     That none of these funds shall be used to develop, establish, 
     or operate any program of user fees authorized by 31 U.S.C. 
     9701:  Provided further, That of the total amount 
     appropriated: (1) $1,026,803,000 shall be for the Center for 
     Food Safety and Applied Nutrition and related field 
     activities in the Office of Regulatory Affairs; (2) 
     $1,634,578,000 shall be for the Center for Drug Evaluation 
     and Research and related field activities in the Office of 
     Regulatory Affairs; (3) $374,233,000 shall be for the Center 
     for Biologics Evaluation and Research and for related field 
     activities in the Office of Regulatory Affairs; (4) 
     $195,349,000 shall be for the Center for Veterinary Medicine 
     and for related field activities in the Office of Regulatory 
     Affairs; (5) $487,836,000 shall be for the Center for Devices 
     and Radiological Health and for related field activities in 
     the Office of Regulatory Affairs; (6) $63,331,000 shall be 
     for the National Center for Toxicological Research; (7) 
     $625,646,000 shall be for the Center for Tobacco Products and 
     for related field activities in the Office of Regulatory 
     Affairs; (8) not to exceed $178,785,000 shall be for Rent and 
     Related activities, of which $51,973,000 is for White Oak 
     Consolidation, other than the amounts paid to the General 
     Services Administration for rent; (9) not to exceed 
     $237,871,000 shall be for payments to the General Services 
     Administration for rent; and (10) $321,513,000 shall be for 
     other activities, including the Office of the Commissioner of 
     Food and Drugs, the Office of Foods and Veterinary Medicine, 
     the Office of Medical and Tobacco Products, the Office of 
     Global and Regulatory Policy, the Office of Operations, the 
     Office of the Chief Scientist, and central services for these 
     offices:  Provided further, That not to exceed $25,000 of 
     this amount shall be for official reception and 
     representation expenses, not otherwise provided for, as 
     determined by the Commissioner of Food and Drugs:  Provided 
     further, That any transfer of funds pursuant to section 
     770(n) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 
     379dd(n)) shall only be from amounts made available under 
     this heading for other activities:  Provided further, That of 
     the amounts that are made available under this heading for 
     ``other activities'', and that are not derived from user 
     fees, $1,500,000 shall be transferred to and merged with the 
     appropriation for ``Department of Health and Human Services--
     Office of Inspector General'' for oversight of the programs 
     and operations of the Food and Drug Administration and shall 
     be in addition to funds otherwise made available for 
     oversight of the Food and Drug Administration:  Provided 
     further, That of the total amount made available under this 
     heading, $1,500,000 shall be used by the Commissioner of Food 
     and Drugs, in coordination with the Secretary of Agriculture, 
     for consumer outreach and education regarding agricultural 
     biotechnology and biotechnology-derived food products and 
     animal feed, including through publication and distribution 
     of science-based educational information on the 
     environmental, nutritional, food safety, economic, and 
     humanitarian impacts of such biotechnology, food products, 
     and feed:  Provided further, That funds may be transferred 
     from one specified activity to another with the prior 
     approval of the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
     of Congress.
       In addition, mammography user fees authorized by 42 U.S.C. 
     263b, export certification user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 
     381, priority review user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 360n 
     and 360ff, food and feed recall fees, food reinspection fees, 
     and voluntary qualified importer program fees authorized by 
     21 U.S.C. 379j-31, outsourcing facility fees authorized by 21 
     U.S.C. 379j-62, prescription drug wholesale distributor 
     licensing and inspection fees authorized by 21 U.S.C.

[[Page H6872]]

     353(e)(3), third-party logistics provider licensing and 
     inspection fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 360eee-3(c)(1), 
     third-party auditor fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 384d(c)(8), 
     and medical countermeasure priority review voucher user fees 
     authorized by 21 U.S.C. 360bbb-4a, shall be credited to this 
     account, to remain available until expended.

                        buildings and facilities

       For plans, construction, repair, improvement, extension, 
     alteration, demolition, and purchase of fixed equipment or 
     facilities of or used by the Food and Drug Administration, 
     where not otherwise provided, $8,771,000, to remain available 
     until expended.

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                  Commodity Futures Trading Commission

       For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the 
     Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.), including the 
     purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles, and the rental 
     of space (to include multiple year leases), in the District 
     of Columbia and elsewhere, $248,000,000, including not to 
     exceed $3,000 for official reception and representation 
     expenses, and not to exceed $25,000 for the expenses for 
     consultations and meetings hosted by the Commission with 
     foreign governmental and other regulatory officials, of which 
     not less than $49,000,000, to remain available until 
     September 30, 2019, shall be for the purchase of information 
     technology and of which not less than $2,700,000 shall be for 
     expenses of the Office of the Inspector General: Provided, 
     That notwithstanding the limitations in 31 U.S.C. 1553, 
     amounts provided under this heading are available for the 
     liquidation of obligations equal to current year payments on 
     leases entered into prior to the date of enactment of this 
     Act: Provided further, That for the purpose of recording and 
     liquidating any lease obligations that should have been 
     recorded and liquidated against accounts closed pursuant to 
     31 U.S.C. 1552, and consistent with the preceding proviso, 
     such amounts shall be transferred to and recorded in a new 
     no-year account in the Treasury, which may be established for 
     the sole purpose of recording adjustments for and liquidating 
     such unpaid obligations: Provided further, That 
     notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Chairman of 
     the Commodity Futures Trading Commission may adjust the 
     schedule of compensation and benefits for employees if the 
     Chairman determines that furloughs or reductions-in-force may 
     result from a collective bargaining agreement.

                       Farm Credit Administration

                 limitation on administrative expenses

       Not to exceed $68,600,000 (from assessments collected from 
     farm credit institutions, including the Federal Agricultural 
     Mortgage Corporation) shall be obligated during the current 
     fiscal year for administrative expenses as authorized under 
     12 U.S.C. 2249:  Provided, That this limitation shall not 
     apply to expenses associated with receiverships:  Provided 
     further, That the agency may exceed this limitation by up to 
     10 percent with notification to the Committees on 
     Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.

                               TITLE VII

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

             (including rescissions and transfers of funds)

       Sec. 701.  Within the unit limit of cost fixed by law, 
     appropriations and authorizations made for the Department of 
     Agriculture for the current fiscal year under this Act shall 
     be available for the purchase, in addition to those 
     specifically provided for, of not to exceed 71 passenger 
     motor vehicles of which 68 shall be for replacement only, and 
     for the hire of such vehicles:  Provided, That 
     notwithstanding this section, the only purchase of new 
     passenger vehicles shall be for those determined by the 
     Secretary to be necessary for transportation safety, to 
     reduce operational costs, and for the protection of life, 
     property, and public safety.
       Sec. 702.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, 
     the Secretary of Agriculture may transfer unobligated 
     balances of discretionary funds appropriated by this Act or 
     any other available unobligated discretionary balances that 
     are remaining available of the Department of Agriculture to 
     the Working Capital Fund for the acquisition of plant and 
     capital equipment necessary for the delivery of financial, 
     administrative, and information technology services of 
     primary benefit to the agencies of the Department of 
     Agriculture, such transferred funds to remain available until 
     expended:  Provided, That none of the funds made available by 
     this Act or any other Act shall be transferred to the Working 
     Capital Fund without the prior approval of the agency 
     administrator:  Provided further, That none of the funds 
     transferred to the Working Capital Fund pursuant to this 
     section shall be available for obligation without written 
     notification to and the prior approval of the Committees on 
     Appropriations of both Houses of Congress:  Provided further, 
     That none of the funds appropriated by this Act or made 
     available to the Department's Working Capital Fund shall be 
     available for obligation or expenditure to make any changes 
     to the Department's National Finance Center without written 
     notification to and prior approval of the Committees on 
     Appropriations of both Houses of Congress as required by 
     section 717 of this Act: Provided further, That none of the 
     funds appropriated by this Act or made available to the 
     Department's Working Capital Fund shall be available for 
     obligation or expenditure to initiate, plan, develop, 
     implement, or make any changes to remove or relocate any 
     systems, missions, or offices of the Chief Financial Officer 
     or any personnel from the National Finance Center prior to 
     written notification to and prior approval of the Committee 
     on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress and in 
     accordance with the requirements of section 717 of this Act:  
     Provided further, That of annual income amounts in the 
     Working Capital Fund of the Department of Agriculture 
     allocated for the National Finance Center, the Secretary may 
     reserve not more than 4 percent for the replacement or 
     acquisition of capital equipment, including equipment for the 
     improvement and implementation of a financial management 
     plan, information technology, and other systems of the 
     National Finance Center or to pay any unforeseen, 
     extraordinary cost of the National Finance Center:  Provided 
     further, That none of the amounts reserved shall be available 
     for obligation unless the Secretary submits written 
     notification of the obligation to the Committees on 
     Appropriations of both Houses of Congress:  Provided further, 
     That the limitations on the obligation of funds pending 
     notification to Congressional Committees shall not apply to 
     any obligation that, as determined by the Secretary, is 
     necessary to respond to a declared state of emergency that 
     significantly impacts the operations of the National Finance 
     Center; or to evacuate employees of the National Finance 
     Center to a safe haven to continue operations of the National 
     Finance Center.
       Sec. 703.  No part of any appropriation contained in this 
     Act shall remain available for obligation beyond the current 
     fiscal year unless expressly so provided herein.
       Sec. 704.  No funds appropriated by this Act may be used to 
     pay negotiated indirect cost rates on cooperative agreements 
     or similar arrangements between the United States Department 
     of Agriculture and nonprofit institutions in excess of 10 
     percent of the total direct cost of the agreement when the 
     purpose of such cooperative arrangements is to carry out 
     programs of mutual interest between the two parties. This 
     does not preclude appropriate payment of indirect costs on 
     grants and contracts with such institutions when such 
     indirect costs are computed on a similar basis for all 
     agencies for which appropriations are provided in this Act.
       Sec. 705.  Appropriations to the Department of Agriculture 
     for the cost of direct and guaranteed loans made available in 
     the current fiscal year shall remain available until expended 
     to disburse obligations made in the current fiscal year for 
     the following accounts: the Rural Development Loan Fund 
     program account, the Rural Electrification and 
     Telecommunication Loans program account, and the Rural 
     Housing Insurance Fund program account.
       Sec. 706.  None of the funds made available to the 
     Department of Agriculture by this Act may be used to acquire 
     new information technology systems or significant upgrades, 
     as determined by the Office of the Chief Information Officer, 
     without the approval of the Chief Information Officer and the 
     concurrence of the Executive Information Technology 
     Investment Review Board:  Provided, That notwithstanding any 
     other provision of law, none of the funds appropriated or 
     otherwise made available by this Act may be transferred to 
     the Office of the Chief Information Officer without written 
     notification to and the prior approval of the Committees on 
     Appropriations of both Houses of Congress:  Provided further, 
     That, notwithstanding section 11319 of title 40, United 
     States Code, none of the funds available to the Department of 
     Agriculture for information technology shall be obligated for 
     projects, contracts, or other agreements over $25,000 prior 
     to receipt of written approval by the Chief Information 
     Officer:  Provided further, That the Chief Information 
     Officer may authorize an agency to obligate funds without 
     written approval from the Chief Information Officer for 
     projects, contracts, or other agreements up to $250,000 based 
     upon the performance of an agency measured against the 
     performance plan requirements described in the explanatory 
     statement accompanying Public Law 113-235.
       Sec. 707.  Funds made available under section 524(b) of the 
     Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1524(b)) in the current 
     fiscal year shall remain available until expended to disburse 
     obligations made in the current fiscal year.
       Sec. 708.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any 
     former RUS borrower that has repaid or prepaid an insured, 
     direct or guaranteed loan under the Rural Electrification Act 
     of 1936, or any not-for-profit utility that is eligible to 
     receive an insured or direct loan under such Act, shall be 
     eligible for assistance under section 313(b)(2)(B) of such 
     Act in the same manner as a borrower under such Act.
       Sec. 709.  Except as otherwise specifically provided by 
     law, not more than $20,000,000 in unobligated balances from 
     appropriations made available for salaries and expenses in 
     this Act for the Farm Service Agency shall remain available 
     through September 30, 2019, for information technology 
     expenses:  Provided, That except as otherwise specifically 
     provided by law, unobligated balances from appropriations 
     made available for salaries and expenses in this Act for the 
     Rural Development mission area shall remain available through 
     September 30, 2019, for information technology expenses.
       Sec. 710.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available by this Act may be used for first-class travel by 
     the employees of agencies funded by this Act in contravention 
     of sections 301-10.122 through 301-10.124 of title 41, Code 
     of Federal Regulations.
       Sec. 711.  In the case of each program established or 
     amended by the Agricultural Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-79), 
     other than by title I or subtitle A of title III of such Act, 
     or programs for which indefinite amounts were provided in 
     that Act, that is authorized or required to be carried out 
     using funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation--
       (1) such funds shall be available for salaries and related 
     administrative expenses, including technical assistance, 
     associated with the implementation of the program, without 
     regard to the limitation on the total amount of allotments 
     and fund transfers contained in section 11 of the Commodity 
     Credit Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714i); and

[[Page H6873]]

       (2) the use of such funds for such purpose shall not be 
     considered to be a fund transfer or allotment for purposes of 
     applying the limitation on the total amount of allotments and 
     fund transfers contained in such section.
       Sec. 712.  Of the funds made available by this Act, not 
     more than $2,900,000 shall be used to cover necessary 
     expenses of activities related to all advisory committees, 
     panels, commissions, and task forces of the Department of 
     Agriculture, except for panels used to comply with negotiated 
     rule makings and panels used to evaluate competitively 
     awarded grants.
       Sec. 713.  None of the funds in this Act shall be available 
     to pay indirect costs charged against any agricultural 
     research, education, or extension grant awards issued by the 
     National Institute of Food and Agriculture that exceed 30 
     percent of total Federal funds provided under each award:  
     Provided, That notwithstanding section 1462 of the National 
     Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 
     1977 (7 U.S.C. 3310), funds provided by this Act for grants 
     awarded competitively by the National Institute of Food and 
     Agriculture shall be available to pay full allowable indirect 
     costs for each grant awarded under section 9 of the Small 
     Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638).
       Sec. 714.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available by this or any other Act shall be used to pay the 
     salaries and expenses of personnel to carry out the 
     following:
       (1) The program authorized by section 14(h)(1) of the 
     Watershed Protection and Flood Prevention Act (16 U.S.C. 
     1012(h)(1)): Provided, That the funds appropriated by section 
     14(h)(1) of such Act are hereby permanently cancelled;
       (2) The program authorized by section 9007 of the Farm 
     Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8107) in 
     excess of $1,000,000;
       (3) The program authorized by section 9011 of the Farm 
     Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8111);
       (4) The program authorized by section 9003 of the Farm 
     Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8103); 
     and
       (5) The program authorized by section 524(b) of the Federal 
     Crop Insurance Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1524(b)): Provided, 
     That the funds made available by section 524(b) of such Act 
     for fiscal year 2018 are hereby permanently cancelled.
       Sec. 715.  Notwithstanding subsection (b) of section 14222 
     of Public Law 110-246 (7 U.S.C. 612c-6; in this section 
     referred to as ``section 14222''), none of the funds 
     appropriated or otherwise made available by this or any other 
     Act shall be used to pay the salaries and expenses of 
     personnel to carry out a program under section 32 of the Act 
     of August 24, 1935 (7 U.S.C. 612c; in this section referred 
     to as ``section 32'') in excess of $878,255,000 (exclusive of 
     carryover appropriations from prior fiscal years), as 
     follows: Child Nutrition Programs Entitlement Commodities--
     $465,000,000; State Option Contracts--$5,000,000; Removal of 
     Defective Commodities--$2,500,000; Administration of Section 
     32 Commodity Purchases--$35,853,000:  Provided, That of the 
     total funds made available in the matter preceding this 
     proviso that remain unobligated on October 1, 2018, such 
     unobligated balances shall carryover into the next fiscal 
     year and shall remain available until expended for any of the 
     three stated purposes of section 32, except that any such 
     carryover funds used in accordance with clause (3) of section 
     32 may not exceed $75,000,000 and may not be obligated until 
     the Secretary of Agriculture provides written notification of 
     the expenditures to the Committees on Appropriations of both 
     Houses of Congress at least two weeks in advance:  Provided 
     further, That none of the funds made available in this Act or 
     any other Act shall be used for salaries and expenses to 
     carry out in this fiscal year sub-section (i)(1)(E) of 
     section 19 of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch 
     Act (42 U.S.C. 1769a), except in an amount that excludes the 
     transfer of $125,000,000 of the funds to be transferred under 
     subsection (c) of section 14222, until October 1, 2018:  
     Provided further, That $125,000,000 made available on October 
     1, 2018, to carry out such section 19 shall be excluded from 
     the limitation described in subsection (b)(2)(A)(x) of 
     section 14222:  Provided further, That, with the exception of 
     any available carryover funds authorized in the first proviso 
     of this section to be used for the purposes of clause (3) of 
     section 32, none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available by this or any other Act shall be used to pay the 
     salaries or expenses of any employee of the Department of 
     Agriculture or officer of the Commodity Credit Corporation to 
     carry out clause (3) of section 32, or for any surplus 
     removal activities or price support activities under section 
     5 of the Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 
     714c):  Provided further, That the available unobligated 
     balances under (b)(2)(A)(x) of section 14222 in excess of the 
     limitation set forth in this section, excluding amounts to be 
     transferred pursuant to the second proviso of this section, 
     are hereby permanently rescinded.
       Sec. 716.  None of the funds appropriated by this or any 
     other Act shall be used to pay the salaries and expenses of 
     personnel who prepare or submit appropriations language as 
     part of the President's budget submission to the Congress for 
     programs under the jurisdiction of the Appropriations 
     Subcommittees on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and 
     Drug Administration, and Related Agencies that assumes 
     revenues or reflects a reduction from the previous year due 
     to user fees proposals that have not been enacted into law 
     prior to the submission of the budget unless such budget 
     submission identifies which additional spending reductions 
     should occur in the event the user fees proposals are not 
     enacted prior to the date of the convening of a committee of 
     conference for the fiscal year 2018 appropriations Act.
       Sec. 717. (a) None of the funds provided by this Act, or 
     provided by previous appropriations Acts to the agencies 
     funded by this Act that remain available for obligation or 
     expenditure in the current fiscal year, or provided from any 
     accounts in the Treasury derived by the collection of fees 
     available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall be 
     available for obligation or expenditure through a 
     reprogramming, transfer of funds, or reimbursements as 
     authorized by the Economy Act, or in the case of the 
     Department of Agriculture, through use of the authority 
     provided by section 702(b) of the Department of Agriculture 
     Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2257) or section 8 of Public 
     Law 89-106 (7 U.S.C. 2263), that--
       (1) creates new programs;
       (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity;
       (3) increases funds or personnel by any means for any 
     project or activity for which funds have been denied or 
     restricted;
       (4) relocates an office or employees;
       (5) reorganizes offices, programs, or activities; or
       (6) contracts out or privatizes any functions or activities 
     presently performed by Federal employees;
     unless the Secretary of Agriculture, the Chairman of the 
     Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or the Secretary of 
     Health and Human Services (as the case may be) notifies in 
     writing and receives approval from the Committees on 
     Appropriations of both Houses of Congress at least 30 days in 
     advance of the reprogramming of such funds or the use of such 
     authority.
       (b) None of the funds provided by this Act, or provided by 
     previous Appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this 
     Act that remain available for obligation or expenditure in 
     the current fiscal year, or provided from any accounts in the 
     Treasury derived by the collection of fees available to the 
     agencies funded by this Act, shall be available for 
     obligation or expenditure for activities, programs, or 
     projects through a reprogramming or use of the authorities 
     referred to in subsection (a) involving funds in excess of 
     $500,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less, that--
       (1) augments existing programs, projects, or activities;
       (2) reduces by 10 percent funding for any existing program, 
     project, or activity, or numbers of personnel by 10 percent 
     as approved by Congress; or
       (3) results from any general savings from a reduction in 
     personnel which would result in a change in existing 
     programs, activities, or projects as approved by Congress; 
     unless the Secretary of Agriculture, the Chairman of the 
     Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or the Secretary of 
     Health and Human Services (as the case may be) notifies in 
     writing and receives approval from the Committees on 
     Appropriations of both Houses of Congress at least 30 days in 
     advance of the reprogramming or transfer of such funds or the 
     use of such authority.
       (c) The Secretary of Agriculture, the Chairman of the 
     Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or the Secretary of 
     Health and Human Services shall notify in writing and receive 
     approval from the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
     of Congress before implementing any program or activity not 
     carried out during the previous fiscal year unless the 
     program or activity is funded by this Act or specifically 
     funded by any other Act.
       (d) None of the funds provided by this Act, or provided by 
     previous Appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this 
     Act that remain available for obligation or expenditure in 
     the current fiscal year, or provided from any accounts in the 
     Treasury derived by the collection of fees available to the 
     agencies funded by this Act, shall be available for--
       (1) modifying major capital investments funding levels, 
     including information technology systems, that involves 
     increasing or decreasing funds in the current fiscal year for 
     the individual investment in excess of $500,000 or 10 percent 
     of the total cost, whichever is less;
       (2) realigning or reorganizing new, current, or vacant 
     positions or agency activities or functions to establish a 
     center, office, branch, or similar entity with five or more 
     personnel; or
       (3) carrying out activities or functions that were not 
     described in the budget request; unless the agencies funded 
     by this Act notify, in writing, the Committees on 
     Appropriations of both Houses of Congress at least 30 days in 
     advance of using the funds for these purposes.
       (e) As described in this section, no funds may be used for 
     any activities unless the Secretary of Agriculture, the 
     Chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or the 
     Secretary of Health and Human Services receives from the 
     Committee on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 
     written or electronic mail confirmation of receipt of the 
     notification as required in this section.
       Sec. 718.  Notwithstanding section 310B(g)(5) of the 
     Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 
     1932(g)(5)), the Secretary may assess a one-time fee for any 
     guaranteed business and industry loan in an amount that does 
     not exceed 3 percent of the guaranteed principal portion of 
     the loan.
       Sec. 719.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available to the Department of Agriculture, the Food and Drug 
     Administration, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or 
     the Farm Credit Administration shall be used to transmit or 
     otherwise make available reports, questions, or responses to 
     questions that are a result of information requested for the 
     appropriations hearing process to any non-Department of 
     Agriculture, non-Department of Health and Human Services, 
     non-Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or non-Farm Credit 
     Administration employee.
       Sec. 720.  Unless otherwise authorized by existing law, 
     none of the funds provided in this Act, may be used by an 
     executive branch agency to produce any prepackaged news story 
     intended for broadcast or distribution in the United States 
     unless the story includes a clear notification within the 
     text or audio of the prepackaged

[[Page H6874]]

     news story that the prepackaged news story was prepared or 
     funded by that executive branch agency.
       Sec. 721.  No employee of the Department of Agriculture may 
     be detailed or assigned from an agency or office funded by 
     this Act or any other Act to any other agency or office of 
     the Department for more than 60 days in a fiscal year unless 
     the individual's employing agency or office is fully 
     reimbursed by the receiving agency or office for the salary 
     and expenses of the employee for the period of assignment.
       Sec. 722. (a) Unless the Secretary of Agriculture notifies 
     the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 
     at least 3 full business days in advance, none of the funds 
     made available in this Act may be used to--
       (1) make a grant allocation of discretionary grant award 
     totaling $1,000,000 or more;
       (2) make a discretionary contract award totaling $1,000,000 
     or more;
       (3) issue a letter of intent to make an allocation or award 
     in excess of the limits in subparagraph (1) or (2); or
       (4) announce publicly the intention to make an allocation 
     or award in excess of the limits in subparagraph (1) or (2).
       (b) The Secretary of Agriculture shall submit to the 
     Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 
     within 15 days of the conclusion of each quarter a report 
     detailing each grant allocation or discretionary grant award 
     totaling less than $1,000,000 provided during the previous 
     quarter.
       (c) The notification required by paragraph (a) and the 
     report required by paragraph (b) shall include the recipient 
     of the award, the amount of the award, the fiscal year for 
     which the funds for the award were appropriated, the account 
     and program, project, or activity from which the funds are 
     being drawn, the title of the award, and a brief description 
     of the activity for which the award is made.
       Sec. 723.  Not later than 30 days after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture, the 
     Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, the 
     Chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, and the 
     Chairman of the Farm Credit Administration shall submit to 
     the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a 
     detailed spending plan by program, project, and activity for 
     all the funds made available under this Act including 
     appropriated user fees, as defined in the report accompanying 
     this Act.
       Sec. 724.  Funds made available under title II of the Food 
     for Peace Act (7 U.S.C. 1721 et seq.) may only be used to 
     provide assistance to recipient nations if adequate 
     monitoring and controls, as determined by the Administrator, 
     are in place to ensure that emergency food aid is received by 
     the intended beneficiaries in areas affected by food 
     shortages and not diverted for unauthorized or inappropriate 
     purposes.
       Sec. 725.  The Secretary shall establish an intermediary 
     loan packaging program based on the pilot program in effect 
     for fiscal year 2013 for packaging and reviewing section 502 
     single family direct loans. The Secretary shall enter into 
     agreements with current intermediary organizations and with 
     additional qualified intermediary organizations. The 
     Secretary shall work with these organizations to increase 
     effectiveness of the section 502 single family direct loan 
     program in rural communities and shall set aside and make 
     available from the national reserve section 502 loans an 
     amount necessary to support the work of such intermediaries 
     and provide a priority for review of such loans.
       Sec. 726.  For loans and loan guarantees that do not 
     require budget authority and the program level has been 
     established in this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture may 
     increase the program level for such loans and loan guarantees 
     by not more than 25 percent:  Provided, That prior to the 
     Secretary implementing such an increase, the Secretary 
     notifies, in writing, the Committees on Appropriations of 
     both Houses of Congress at least 15 days in advance.
       Sec. 727.  None of the credit card refunds or rebates 
     transferred to the Working Capital Fund pursuant to section 
     729 of the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
     Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2002 
     (7 U.S.C. 2235a; Public Law 107-76) shall be available for 
     obligation without written notification to, and the prior 
     approval of, the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
     of Congress:  Provided, That the refunds or rebates so 
     transferred shall be available for obligation only for the 
     acquisition of plant and capital equipment necessary for the 
     delivery of financial, administrative, and information 
     technology services of primary benefit to the agencies of the 
     Department of Agriculture.
       Sec. 728.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to procure raw or processed poultry products imported 
     into the United States from the People's Republic of China 
     for use in the school lunch program under the Richard B. 
     Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.), 
     the Child and Adult Care Food Program under section 17 of 
     such Act (42 U.S.C. 1766), the Summer Food Service Program 
     for Children under section 13 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1761), 
     or the school breakfast program under the Child Nutrition Act 
     of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.).
       Sec. 729.  In response to an eligible community where the 
     drinking water supplies are inadequate due to a natural 
     disaster, as determined by the Secretary, including drought 
     or severe weather, the Secretary may provide potable water 
     through the Emergency Community Water Assistance Grant 
     Program for an additional period of time not to exceed 120 
     days beyond the established period provided under the Program 
     in order to protect public health.
       Sec. 730.  Funds provided by this or any prior 
     Appropriations Act for the Agriculture and Food Research 
     Initiative under 7 U.S.C. 450i(b) shall be made available 
     without regard to section 7128 of the Agricultural Act of 
     2014 (7 U.S.C. 3371 note), under the matching requirements in 
     laws in effect on the date before the date of enactment of 
     such section:  Provided, That the requirements of 7 U.S.C. 
     450i(b)(9) shall continue to apply.
       Sec. 731.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used by the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the 
     Food and Nutrition Service, to commence any new research and 
     evaluation projects until the Secretary submits to the 
     Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a 
     research and evaluation plan for fiscal year 2018, prepared 
     in coordination with the Research, Education, and Economics 
     mission area of the Department of Agriculture, and a period 
     of 30 days beginning on the date of the submission of the 
     plan expires to permit Congressional review of the plan.
       Sec. 732.  In carrying out subsection (h) of section 502 of 
     the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1472), the Secretary of 
     Agriculture shall have the same authority with respect to 
     loans guaranteed under such section and eligible lenders for 
     such loans as the Secretary has under subsections (h) and (j) 
     of section 538 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1490p-2) with respect 
     to loans guaranteed under such section 538 and eligible 
     lenders for such loans.
       Sec. 733.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to propose, promulgate, or implement any rule, or 
     take any other action with respect to, allowing or requiring 
     information intended for a prescribing health care 
     professional, in the case of a drug or biological product 
     subject to section 503(b)(1) of the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 353(b)(1)), to be distributed to such 
     professional electronically (in lieu of in paper form) unless 
     and until a Federal law is enacted to allow or require such 
     distribution.
       Sec. 734.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to notify a sponsor or otherwise acknowledge receipt 
     of a submission for an exemption for investigational use of a 
     drug or biological product under section 505(i) of the 
     Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355(i)) or 
     section 351(a)(3) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
     262(a)(3)) in research in which a human embryo is 
     intentionally created or modified to include a heritable 
     genetic modification. Any such submission shall be deemed to 
     have not been received by the Secretary, and the exemption 
     may not go into effect.
       Sec. 735.  None of the funds made available by this or any 
     other Act may be used to carry out the final rule promulgated 
     by the Food and Drug Administration and put into effect 
     November 16, 2015, in regards to the hazard analysis and 
     risk-based preventive control requirements of the current 
     good manufacturing practice, hazard analysis, and risk-based 
     preventive controls for food for animals rule with respect to 
     the regulation of the production, distribution, sale, or 
     receipt of dried spent grain byproducts of the alcoholic 
     beverage production process.
       Sec. 736. (a) The Secretary of Agriculture shall--
       (1) conduct audits in a manner that evaluates the following 
     factors in the country or region being audited, as 
     applicable--
       (A) veterinary control and oversight;
       (B) disease history and vaccination practices;
       (C) livestock demographics and traceability;
       (D) epidemiological separation from potential sources of 
     infection;
       (E) surveillance practices;
       (F) diagnostic laboratory capabilities; and
       (G) emergency preparedness and response; and
       (2) promptly make publicly available the final reports of 
     any audits or reviews conducted pursuant to subsection (1).
       (b) This section shall be applied in a manner consistent 
     with United States obligations under its international trade 
     agreements.
       Sec. 737.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to carry out any activities or incur any expense 
     related to the issuance of licenses under section 3 of the 
     Animal Welfare Act (7 U.S.C. 2133), or the renewal of such 
     licenses, to class B dealers who sell dogs and cats for use 
     in research, experiments, teaching, or testing.
       Sec. 738.  No partially hydrogenated oils as defined in the 
     order published by the Food and Drug Administration in the 
     Federal Register on June 17, 2015 (80 Fed. Reg. 34650 et 
     seq.) shall be deemed unsafe within the meaning of section 
     409(a) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 
     348(a)) and no food that is introduced or delivered for 
     introduction into interstate commerce that bears or contains 
     a partially hydrogenated oil shall be deemed adulterated 
     under sections 402(a)(1) or 402(a)(2)(C)(i) of this Act by 
     virtue of bearing or containing a partially hydrogenated oil 
     until the compliance date as specified in such order (June 
     18, 2018).
       Sec. 739.  The Secretary may charge a fee for lenders to 
     access Department loan guarantee systems in connection with 
     such lenders' participation in loan guarantee programs of the 
     Rural Housing Service:  Provided, That the funds collected 
     from such fees shall be made available to the Secretary 
     without further appropriation and such funds shall be 
     deposited into the Rural Development Salaries and Expense 
     Account and shall remain available until expended for 
     obligation and expenditure by the Secretary for 
     administrative expenses of the Rural Housing Service Loan 
     Guarantee Program in addition to other available funds:  
     Provided further, That such fees collected shall not exceed 
     $50 per loan.
       Sec. 740. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act 
     may be used to maintain or establish a computer network 
     unless such network blocks the viewing, downloading, and 
     exchanging of pornography.
       (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
     necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law 
     enforcement agency or any other entity carrying out criminal 
     investigations, prosecution, or adjudication activities.

[[Page H6875]]

       Sec. 741.  Of the unobligated balances from amounts made 
     available for the special supplemental nutrition program as 
     authorized by section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 
     (42 U.S.C. 1786), $600,000,000 are rescinded.
       Sec. 742. (a)(1) No Federal funds made available for this 
     fiscal year for the rural water, waste water, waste disposal, 
     and solid waste management programs authorized by sections 
     306, 306A, 306C, 306D, 306E, and 310B of the Consolidated 
     Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1926 et seq.) shall 
     be used for a project for the construction, alteration, 
     maintenance, or repair of a public water or wastewater system 
     unless all of the iron and steel products used in the project 
     are produced in the United States.
       (2) In this section, the term ``iron and steel products'' 
     means the following products made primarily of iron or steel: 
     lined or unlined pipes and fittings, manhole covers and other 
     municipal castings, hydrants, tanks, flanges, pipe clamps and 
     restraints, valves, structural steel, reinforced precast 
     concrete, and construction materials.
       (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply in any case or category 
     of cases in which the Secretary of Agriculture (in this 
     section referred to as the ``Secretary'') or the designee of 
     the Secretary finds that--
       (1) applying subsection (a) would be inconsistent with the 
     public interest;
       (2) iron and steel products are not produced in the United 
     States in sufficient and reasonably available quantities or 
     of a satisfactory quality; or
       (3) inclusion of iron and steel products produced in the 
     United States will increase the cost of the overall project 
     by more than 25 percent.
       (c) If the Secretary or the designee receives a request for 
     a waiver under this section, the Secretary or the designee 
     shall make available to the public on an informal basis a 
     copy of the request and information available to the 
     Secretary or the designee concerning the request, and shall 
     allow for informal public input on the request for at least 
     15 days prior to making a finding based on the request. The 
     Secretary or the designee shall make the request and 
     accompanying information available by electronic means, 
     including on the official public Internet Web site of the 
     Department.
       (d) This section shall be applied in a manner consistent 
     with United States obligations under international 
     agreements.
       (e) The Secretary may retain up to 0.25 percent of the 
     funds appropriated in this Act for ``Rural Utilities 
     Service--Rural Water and Waste Disposal Program Account'' for 
     carrying out the provisions described in subsection (a)(1) 
     for management and oversight of the requirements of this 
     section.
       (f) Subsection (a) shall not apply with respect to a 
     project for which the engineering plans and specifications 
     include use of iron and steel products otherwise prohibited 
     by such subsection if the plans and specifications have 
     received required approvals from State agencies prior to the 
     date of enactment of this Act.
       (g) For purposes of this section, the terms ``United 
     States'' and ``State'' shall include each of the several 
     States, the District of Columbia, and each federally 
     recognized Indian tribe.
       Sec. 743. (a) For the period beginning on the date of 
     enactment of this Act through school year 2018-2019, with 
     respect to the school lunch program established under the 
     Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 
     et seq.) or the school breakfast program established under 
     the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.) and 
     final regulations published by the Department of Agriculture 
     in the Federal Register on January 26, 2012 (77 Fed. Reg. 
     4088 et seq.), the Secretary of Agriculture shall allow 
     States to grant an exemption from the whole grain 
     requirements that took effect on or after July 1, 2014, and 
     the States shall establish a process for evaluating and 
     responding, in a reasonable amount of time, to requests for 
     an exemption:  Provided, That school food authorities 
     demonstrate hardship, including financial hardship, in 
     procuring specific whole grain products which are acceptable 
     to the students and compliant with the whole grain-rich 
     requirements:  Provided further, That school food authorities 
     shall comply with the applicable grain component or standard 
     with respect to the school lunch or school breakfast program 
     that was in effect prior to July 1, 2014.
       (b) For the period beginning on the date of enactment of 
     this Act through school year 2018-2019, none of the funds 
     appropriated or otherwise made available by this or any other 
     Act shall be used to pay the salaries and expenses of 
     personnel to implement any regulations under the Richard B. 
     Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.), 
     the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.), the 
     Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-296), 
     or any other law that would require a reduction in the 
     quantity of sodium contained in federally reimbursed meals, 
     foods, and snacks sold in schools below Target 1 (as 
     described in section 220.8(f)(3) of title 7, Code of Federal 
     Regulations (or successor regulations)).
       (c) For the period beginning on the date of enactment of 
     this Act through school year 2018-2019, notwithstanding any 
     other provision of law, the Secretary shall allow States to 
     grant special exemptions for the service of flavored, low-fat 
     fluid milk in the school lunch program established under the 
     Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 
     et seq.) and the school breakfast program established under 
     the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.), and 
     as a competitive food available on campus during the school 
     day, to schools which demonstrate a reduction in student milk 
     consumption or an increase in school milk waste.
       Sec. 744.  Of the total amounts made available by this Act 
     for direct loans and grants in the following headings: 
     ``Rural Housing Service--Rural Housing Insurance Fund Program 
     Account''; ``Rural Housing Service--Mutual and Self-Help 
     Housing Grants''; ``Rural Economic Infrastructure Grants''; 
     ``Rural Housing Service--Rural Community Facilities Program 
     Account''; ``Rural Business-Cooperative Service--Rural 
     Business Program Account''; ``Rural Business-Cooperative 
     Service--Rural Economic Development Loans Program Account''; 
     ``Rural Business-Cooperative Service--Rural Cooperative 
     Development Grants''; ``Rural Utilities Service--Rural Water 
     and Waste Disposal Program Account''; and ``Rural Utilities 
     Service--Rural Electrification and Telecommunications Loans 
     Program Account'', at least 10 percent of the funds shall be 
     allocated for assistance in persistent poverty counties under 
     this section, including, notwithstanding any other provision 
     regarding population limits, any county seat of such a 
     persistent poverty county that has a population that does not 
     exceed the authorized population limit by more than 10 
     percent:  Provided, That for purposes of this section, the 
     term ``persistent poverty counties'' means any county that 
     has had 20 percent or more of its population living in 
     poverty over the past 30 years, as measured by the 1980, 
     1990, and 2000 decennial censuses, and 2007-2011 American 
     Community Survey 5-year average:  Provided further, That with 
     respect to specific activities for which program levels have 
     been made available by this Act that are not supported by 
     budget authority, the requirements of this section shall be 
     applied to such program level.
       Sec. 745.  For the purposes of determining eligibility or 
     level of program assistance for Rural Development programs 
     the Secretary shall not include incarcerated prison 
     populations.
       Sec. 746.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may 
     be used in any way, directly or indirectly, to influence 
     congressional action on any legislation or appropriation 
     matters pending before Congress, other than to communicate to 
     Members of Congress as described in 18 U.S.C. 1913.
       Sec. 747.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to implement, administer, or enforce the ``variety'' 
     requirements of the final rule entitled ``Enhancing Retailer 
     Standards in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program 
     (SNAP)'' published by the Department of Agriculture in the 
     Federal Register on December 15, 2016 (81 Fed. Reg. 90675) 
     until the Secretary of Agriculture amends the definition of 
     the term ``variety'' as defined in section 278.1(b)(1)(ii)(C) 
     of title 7, Code of Federal Regulations, and ``variety'' as 
     applied in the definition of the term ``staple food'' as 
     defined in section 271.2 of title 7, Code of Federal 
     Regulations, to increase the number of items that qualify as 
     acceptable varieties in each staple food category so that the 
     total number of such items in each staple food category 
     exceeds the number of such items in each staple food category 
     included in the final rule as published on December 15, 2016: 
      Provided, That until the Secretary promulgates such 
     regulatory amendments, the Secretary shall apply the 
     requirements regarding acceptable varieties and breadth of 
     stock to Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program retailers 
     that were in effect on the day before the date of the 
     enactment of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-
     79).
       Sec. 748.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used by the Food and Drug Administration to develop, 
     issue, promote, or advance any regulations applicable to food 
     manufacturers for population-wide sodium reduction actions or 
     to develop, issue, promote or advance final guidance 
     applicable to food manufacturers for long term population-
     wide sodium reduction actions until the date on which a 
     dietary reference intake report with respect to sodium is 
     completed.
       Sec. 749.  The Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary's 
     designees are hereby granted the same access to information 
     and subject to the same requirements applicable to the 
     Secretary of Housing and Urban Development as provided in 
     section 453 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 653) and 
     section 6103(1)(7)(D)(ix) of the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 (26 U.S.C. 1603(1)(7)(D)(ix)) to verify the income for 
     individuals participating in sections 502, 504, 521, and 524 
     of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1972, 1474, 1490a, and 
     1490r), notwithstanding section 453(l)(1) of the Social 
     Security Act.
       Sec. 750.  Of the unobligated balances from amounts made 
     available to carry out section 6407 of the Farm Security and 
     Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8107a), $8,000,000 are 
     rescinded.
       Sec. 751.  None of the funds made available to the 
     Commodity Futures Trading Commission by this Act or any other 
     Act in the current fiscal year or any other fiscal year may 
     be used to pay the salaries and expenses of personnel to 
     lower the de minimis quantity of swap dealing established 
     under section 1a(49)(D) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 
     U.S.C. 1a(49)(D)) to less than $8,000,000,000.
       Sec. 752.  None of the funds made available by this Act or 
     any other Act in the current fiscal year or any other fiscal 
     year may be used to implement, administer, or enforce the 
     final rule with the regulation identifier number 0910-AG38 
     published by the Food and Drug Administration in the Federal 
     Register on May 10, 2016 (81 Fed. Reg. 28974) with respect to 
     traditional large and premium cigars. For the purposes of 
     this section, the term ``traditional large and premium 
     cigar'' means--
       (1) any roll of tobacco that is wrapped in 100 percent leaf 
     tobacco, is bunched with 100 percent tobacco filler, contains 
     no filter, tip, or non-tobacco mouthpiece, weighs at least 6 
     pounds per 1,000 count, and--
       (A) has a 100 percent leaf tobacco binder and is hand 
     rolled;
       (B) has a 100 percent leaf tobacco binder and is made using 
     human hands to lay the leaf tobacco wrapper or binder onto 
     only one machine

[[Page H6876]]

     that bunches, wraps, and caps each individual cigar; or
       (C) has a homogenized tobacco leaf binder and is made in 
     the United States using human hands to lay the 100 percent 
     leaf tobacco wrapper onto only one machine that bunches, 
     wraps, and caps each individual cigar; and
       (2) is not a cigarette or a little cigar (as such terms are 
     defined in paragraphs (3) and (11), respectively, of section 
     900 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 
     387)).
       Sec. 753. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available by this Act or any other Act with respect to 
     any fiscal year may, for each tobacco product which the 
     Secretary of Health and Human Services by regulation under 
     section 901(b) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act 
     (21 U.S.C. 387a(b)) deems to be subject to chapter IX of such 
     Act, be used to treat--
       (1) any reference in sections 905(j) or 910(a) of such Act 
     (21 U.S.C. 387e(j), 387j(a)) to February 15, 2007, as other 
     than a reference to the effective date of the regulation 
     under which the tobacco product is deemed to be subject to 
     the requirements of such chapter pursuant to section 901(b) 
     of such Act (21 U.S.C. 387a(b)); and
       (2) any reference in such sections to 21 months after the 
     date of enactment of the Family Smoking Prevention and 
     Tobacco Control Act as other than a reference to 21 months 
     after the effective date of such deeming regulation.
       (b)(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, not 
     later than 21 months after the date of enactment of this Act, 
     the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall issue a 
     notice of proposed rulemaking to establish a product standard 
     for vapor products pursuant to section 907 of the Federal 
     Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 387g) to include but 
     not limited to--
       (A) characterizing flavors; and
       (B) batteries.
       (2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, not later 
     than 36 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
     Secretary shall promulgate a final rule pursuant to such 
     notice.
       (c) A vapor product shall be deemed to be misbranded under 
     section 903(a) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act 
     (21 U.S.C. 387c(a)) if the advertising with respect to the 
     vapor product is disseminated by a manufacturer, distributor, 
     or retailer of the product in a newspaper, magazine, 
     periodical, or other publication (including any publication 
     of periodic or limited distribution) other than an adult 
     publication.
       (d)(1) A retailer may only sell any vapor product in a 
     direct face-to-face exchange without the assistance of any 
     electronic or mechanical device (such as a vending machine).
       (2) This subsection shall not apply with respect to sales 
     of vapor products conducted through--
       (A) mail-order; or
       (B) a vending machine or self-service display if, with 
     respect to the facility in which such vending machine or 
     display is located, the retailer of such products ensures 
     that no person under 18 years of age is present or permitted 
     to enter.
       (3) A violation of this section is deemed to constitute a 
     violation of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act 
     relating to a tobacco product for purposes of section 
     303(f)(9) of such Act (21 U.S.C. 333(f)(9)).
       (e)(1) Not later than 12 months after the date of enactment 
     of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall 
     promulgate final regulations to require that the labeling of 
     vapor products contain--
       (A) the phrase ``Keep Out of Reach of Children'';
       (B) the phrase ``Underage Sale Prohibited''; and
       (C) an accurate statement of the nicotine content of the 
     vapor product.
       (2) A vapor product whose label is in violation of the 
     regulations required by paragraph (1) is deemed to be 
     misbranded under section 903 of the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 387c).
       (f)(1) Every person who owns or operates an establishment 
     in any State engaged in the retail sale of a vapor product 
     shall register that establishment with the Secretary of 
     Health and Human Services within the later of 60 days after 
     the date of enactment of this Act, or 30 days after first 
     engaging in such retail sale.
       (2) The requirements of this subsection do not apply with 
     respect to any establishment subject to an active 
     registration under--
       (A) any State law relating to tobacco products; or
       (B) section 905 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act 
     (21 U.S.C. 387e).
       (3) The Secretary shall make available for inspection, to 
     any person so requesting, any registration filed under this 
     section.
       (g) In this section:
       (1) The term ``adult publication'' means any newspaper, 
     magazine, periodical, or other publication--
       (A) whose readers younger than 18 years of age constitute 
     15 percent or less of the total readership as measured by 
     competent and reliable survey evidence; and
       (B) that is read by fewer than 2 million persons younger 
     than 18 years of age as measured by competent and reliable 
     survey evidence.
       (2) The terms ``label'' and ``labeling'' have the meanings 
     given to such terms in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, 
     and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
       (3) The term ``tobacco product'' has the meaning given to 
     such term in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
       (4) The term ``vapor product''--
       (A) means any non-combustible product that employs a 
     heating element, power source, electronic circuit, or other 
     electronic, chemical, or mechanical means, regardless of 
     shape or size, to produce vapor from nicotine in a solution 
     or other form;
       (B) includes any electronic cigarette, electronic cigar, 
     electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or 
     device, and any vapor cartridge or other container of 
     nicotine in a solution or other form; and
       (C) does not include any product regulated as a drug or 
     device by the Food and Drug Administration under chapter V of 
     the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 351 et. 
     seq.).
       Sec. 754. (a) No funds shall be used to finalize the 
     proposed rule entitled ``Eligibility of the People's Republic 
     of China (PRC) to Export to the United States Poultry 
     Products from Birds Slaughtered in the PRC'' published in the 
     Federal Register by the Department of Agriculture on June 16, 
     2017 (82 Fed. Reg. 27625), unless the Secretary of 
     Agriculture shall--
       (1) ensure that the poultry slaughter inspection system for 
     the PRC is equivalent to that of the U.S.;
       (2) ensure that, before any poultry products can enter the 
     United States from any such poultry plant, such poultry 
     products comply with all other applicable requirements for 
     poultry products in interstate commerce in the United States;
       (3) conduct periodic verification reviews and audits of any 
     such plants in the PRC intending to export into the United 
     States processed poultry products;
       (4) conduct re-inspection of such poultry products at 
     United States ports-of-entry to check the general condition 
     of such products, for the proper certification and labeling 
     of such products, and for any damage to such products that 
     may have occurred during transportation; and
       (5) ensure that shipments of any such poultry products 
     selected to enter the United States are subject to additional 
     re-inspection procedures at appropriate levels to verify that 
     the products comply with relevant Federal regulations or 
     standards, including examinations for product defects and 
     laboratory analyses to detect harmful chemical residues or 
     pathogen testing appropriate for the products involved.
       (b) This section shall be applied in a manner consistent 
     with obligations of the United States under any trade 
     agreement to which the United States is a party.
       Sec. 755.  None of the funds made available by this Act or 
     funds from the Commodity Credit Corporation may be used by 
     the Secretary of Agriculture or provided to the Department of 
     Defense to purchase, produce, or defray the costs of purchase 
     or production of, or develop, facilitate, expedite, or expand 
     production of, an alternative fuel (under the meaning given 
     such term by subparagraph (I) of section 32901(a)(1) of title 
     49, United States Code) for the Department of Defense.
       Sec. 756.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to further implementation of the coastal and marine 
     spatial planning and ecosystem-based management components of 
     the National Ocean Policy developed under Executive Order 
     13547.
       Sec. 757.  For necessary expenses to carry out the 
     activities described in section 1002(b)(4) of the 21st 
     Century Cures Act (Public Law 114-255), in addition to 
     amounts available for such activities under the heading 
     ``Salaries and Expenses'', $60,000,000, to remain available 
     until expended, is provided for Department of Health and 
     Human Services--Food and Drug Administration--FDA Innovation 
     Account: Provided, That amounts appropriated by this section 
     are appropriated pursuant to section 1002(b)(3) of such Act, 
     are to be derived from amounts transferred under section 
     1002(b)(2)(A) of such Act, and may be transferred by the 
     Secretary of Health and Human Services to other accounts of 
     the Department of Health and Human Services solely for the 
     activities described in section 1002(b)(4) such Act: Provided 
     further, That such transfer authority is in addition to any 
     other transfer authority provided by law.
       Sec. 758.  For an additional amount for ``Animal and Plant 
     Health Inspection Service--Salaries and Expenses'', 
     $5,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019, for 
     one-time control and management and associate activities 
     directly related to the multiple-agency response to citrus 
     greening.
       Sec. 759.  There is hereby appropriated $1,000,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2019, for the cost of 
     loans and grants consistent with section 243 of the 
     Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 
     U.S.C. 6953), for necessary expenses of the Secretary to 
     support projects under the healthy food financing initiative 
     that provide access to healthy food in underserved areas, to 
     create and preserve quality jobs, and to revitalize low-
     income communities.
       Sec. 760.  The provisions of sections 202 and 320 of H.R. 
     238, One Hundred Fifteenth Congress (the ``Commodity End-User 
     Relief Act''), as passed by the House of Representatives on 
     January 12, 2017, are hereby enacted into law, except that 
     the amendment made by such section 320 shall be added at the 
     end of paragraph (47) rather than (48).

                           references to act

       Sec. 761.  Except as expressly provided otherwise, any 
     reference to ``this Act'' contained in this division shall be 
     treated as referring only to the provisions of this division.

                          reference to report

       Sec. 762.  Any reference to a ``report accompanying this 
     Act'' contained in this division shall be treated as a 
     reference to House Report 115-232. The effect of such Report 
     shall be limited to this division and shall apply for 
     purposes of determining the allocation of funds provided by, 
     and the implementation of, this division.

                       spending reduction account

       Sec. 763.  $0.

[[Page H6877]]

       This division may be cited as the ``Agriculture, Rural 
     Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related 
     Agencies Appropriations Act, 2018''.

     DIVISION C--COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES 
                        APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2018

        The following sums are appropriated, out of any money in 
     the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year 
     ending September 30, 2018, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

                   International Trade Administration

                     operations and administration

       For necessary expenses for international trade activities 
     of the Department of Commerce provided for by law, and for 
     engaging in trade promotional activities abroad, including 
     expenses of grants and cooperative agreements for the purpose 
     of promoting exports of United States firms, without regard 
     to sections 3702 and 3703 of title 44, United States Code; 
     full medical coverage for dependent members of immediate 
     families of employees stationed overseas and employees 
     temporarily posted overseas; travel and transportation of 
     employees of the International Trade Administration between 
     two points abroad, without regard to section 40118 of title 
     49, United States Code; employment of citizens of the United 
     States and aliens by contract for services; rental of space 
     abroad for periods not exceeding 10 years, and expenses of 
     alteration, repair, or improvement; purchase or construction 
     of temporary demountable exhibition structures for use 
     abroad; payment of tort claims, in the manner authorized in 
     the first paragraph of section 2672 of title 28, United 
     States Code, when such claims arise in foreign countries; not 
     to exceed $294,300 for official representation expenses 
     abroad; purchase of passenger motor vehicles for official use 
     abroad, not to exceed $45,000 per vehicle; obtaining 
     insurance on official motor vehicles; and rental of tie 
     lines, $480,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2019, of which $13,000,000 is to be derived from fees to be 
     retained and used by the International Trade Administration, 
     notwithstanding section 3302 of title 31, United States Code: 
      Provided, That, of amounts provided under this heading, not 
     less than $16,400,000 shall be for China antidumping and 
     countervailing duty enforcement and compliance activities:  
     Provided further, That the provisions of the first sentence 
     of section 105(f) and all of section 108(c) of the Mutual 
     Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
     2455(f) and 2458(c)) shall apply in carrying out these 
     activities; and that for the purpose of this Act, 
     contributions under the provisions of the Mutual Educational 
     and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 shall include payment for 
     assessments for services provided as part of these 
     activities.

                    Bureau of Industry and Security

                     operations and administration

       For necessary expenses for export administration and 
     national security activities of the Department of Commerce, 
     including costs associated with the performance of export 
     administration field activities both domestically and abroad; 
     full medical coverage for dependent members of immediate 
     families of employees stationed overseas; employment of 
     citizens of the United States and aliens by contract for 
     services abroad; payment of tort claims, in the manner 
     authorized in the first paragraph of section 2672 of title 
     28, United States Code, when such claims arise in foreign 
     countries; not to exceed $13,500 for official representation 
     expenses abroad; awards of compensation to informers under 
     the Export Administration Act of 1979, and as authorized by 
     section 1(b) of the Act of June 15, 1917 (40 Stat. 223; 22 
     U.S.C. 401(b)); and purchase of passenger motor vehicles for 
     official use and motor vehicles for law enforcement use with 
     special requirement vehicles eligible for purchase without 
     regard to any price limitation otherwise established by law, 
     $112,500,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
     That the provisions of the first sentence of section 105(f) 
     and all of section 108(c) of the Mutual Educational and 
     Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2455(f) and 2458(c)) 
     shall apply in carrying out these activities:  Provided 
     further, That payments and contributions collected and 
     accepted for materials or services provided as part of such 
     activities may be retained for use in covering the cost of 
     such activities, and for providing information to the public 
     with respect to the export administration and national 
     security activities of the Department of Commerce and other 
     export control programs of the United States and other 
     governments.

                  Economic Development Administration

                economic development assistance programs

       For grants for economic development assistance as provided 
     by the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965, for 
     trade adjustment assistance, and for grants authorized by 
     section 27 of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act 
     of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3722), $140,000,000, to remain available 
     until expended, of which $17,000,000 shall be for grants 
     under such section 27.

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of administering the economic 
     development assistance programs as provided for by law, 
     $36,000,000:  Provided, That these funds may be used to 
     monitor projects approved pursuant to title I of the Public 
     Works Employment Act of 1976, title II of the Trade Act of 
     1974, section 27 of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology 
     Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3722), and the Community 
     Emergency Drought Relief Act of 1977.

                  Minority Business Development Agency

                     minority business development

       For necessary expenses of the Department of Commerce in 
     fostering, promoting, and developing minority business 
     enterprise, including expenses of grants, contracts, and 
     other agreements with public or private organizations, 
     $34,000,000.

                      Bureau of Economic Analysis

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses, as authorized by law, of economic 
     and statistical analysis programs of the Department of 
     Commerce, $96,000,000, to remain available until September 
     30, 2019.

                          Bureau of the Census

                      current surveys and programs

       For necessary expenses for collecting, compiling, 
     analyzing, preparing and publishing statistics, provided for 
     by law, $256,000,000:  Provided, That, from amounts provided 
     herein, funds may be used for promotion, outreach, and 
     marketing activities:  Provided further, That the Bureau of 
     the Census shall collect and analyze data for the Annual 
     Social and Economic Supplement to the Current Population 
     Survey using the same health insurance questions included in 
     previous years, in addition to the revised questions 
     implemented in the Current Population Survey beginning in 
     February 2014.

                     periodic censuses and programs

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For necessary expenses for collecting, compiling, 
     analyzing, preparing and publishing statistics for periodic 
     censuses and programs provided for by law, $1,251,000,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2019:  Provided, That, 
     from amounts provided herein, funds may be used for 
     promotion, outreach, and marketing activities:  Provided 
     further, That within the amounts appropriated, $2,580,000 
     shall be transferred to the ``Office of Inspector General'' 
     account for activities associated with carrying out 
     investigations and audits related to the Bureau of the 
     Census:  Provided further, That not more than 50 percent of 
     the amounts made available under this heading for information 
     technology related to 2020 census delivery, including the 
     Census Enterprise Data Collection and Processing (CEDCaP) 
     program, may be obligated until the Secretary submits to the 
     Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
     and the Senate a plan for expenditure that: (1) identifies 
     for each CEDCaP project/investment over $25,000: (A) the 
     functional and performance capabilities to be delivered and 
     the mission benefits to be realized; (B) the estimated 
     lifecycle cost, including estimates for development as well 
     as maintenance and operations; and (C) key milestones to be 
     met; (2) details for each project/investment: (A) reasons for 
     any cost and schedule variances; and (B) top risks and 
     mitigation strategies; and (3) has been submitted to the 
     Government Accountability Office.

       National Telecommunications and Information Administration

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses, as provided for by law, of the 
     National Telecommunications and Information Administration 
     (NTIA), $30,000,000:  Provided, That, notwithstanding 31 
     U.S.C. 1535(d), the Secretary of Commerce shall charge 
     Federal agencies for costs incurred in spectrum management, 
     analysis, operations, and related services, and such fees 
     shall be retained and used as offsetting collections for 
     costs of such spectrum services, to remain available until 
     expended:  Provided further, That the Secretary of Commerce 
     is authorized to retain and use as offsetting collections all 
     funds transferred, or previously transferred, from other 
     Government agencies for all costs incurred in 
     telecommunications research, engineering, and related 
     activities by the Institute for Telecommunication Sciences of 
     NTIA, in furtherance of its assigned functions under this 
     paragraph, and such funds received from other Government 
     agencies shall remain available until expended.

    public telecommunications facilities, planning and construction

       For the administration of prior-year grants, recoveries and 
     unobligated balances of funds previously appropriated are 
     available for the administration of all open grants until 
     their expiration.

               United States Patent and Trademark Office

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

       For necessary expenses of the United States Patent and 
     Trademark Office (USPTO) provided for by law, including 
     defense of suits instituted against the Under Secretary of 
     Commerce for Intellectual Property and Director of the USPTO, 
     $3,500,000,000, to remain available until expended:  
     Provided, That the sum herein appropriated from the general 
     fund shall be reduced as offsetting collections of fees and 
     surcharges assessed and collected by the USPTO under any law 
     are received during fiscal year 2018, so as to result in a 
     fiscal year 2018 appropriation from the general fund 
     estimated at $0:  Provided further, That during fiscal year 
     2018, should the total amount of such offsetting collections 
     be less than $3,500,000,000 this amount shall be reduced 
     accordingly:  Provided further, That any amount received in 
     excess of $3,500,000,000 in fiscal year 2018 and deposited in 
     the Patent and Trademark Fee Reserve Fund shall remain 
     available until expended:  Provided further, That the 
     Director of USPTO shall submit a spending plan to the 
     Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
     and the Senate for any amounts made available by the 
     preceding proviso and such spending plan shall be treated as 
     a reprogramming under section 505 of this Act and shall not 
     be available for obligation or expenditure except in 
     compliance with the procedures set forth in that section:  
     Provided further, That any amounts reprogrammed

[[Page H6878]]

     in accordance with the preceding proviso shall be transferred 
     to the United States Patent and Trademark Office ``Salaries 
     and Expenses'' account:  Provided further, That from amounts 
     provided herein, not to exceed $900 shall be made available 
     in fiscal year 2018 for official reception and representation 
     expenses:  Provided further, That in fiscal year 2018 from 
     the amounts made available for ``Salaries and Expenses'' for 
     the USPTO, the amounts necessary to pay (1) the difference 
     between the percentage of basic pay contributed by the USPTO 
     and employees under section 8334(a) of title 5, United States 
     Code, and the normal cost percentage (as defined by section 
     8331(17) of that title) as provided by the Office of 
     Personnel Management (OPM) for USPTO's specific use, of basic 
     pay, of employees subject to subchapter III of chapter 83 of 
     that title, and (2) the present value of the otherwise 
     unfunded accruing costs, as determined by OPM for USPTO's 
     specific use of post-retirement life insurance and post-
     retirement health benefits coverage for all USPTO employees 
     who are enrolled in Federal Employees Health Benefits (FEHB) 
     and Federal Employees Group Life Insurance (FEGLI), shall be 
     transferred to the Civil Service Retirement and Disability 
     Fund, the FEGLI Fund, and the FEHB Fund, as appropriate, and 
     shall be available for the authorized purposes of those 
     accounts:  Provided further, That any differences between the 
     present value factors published in OPM's yearly 300 series 
     benefit letters and the factors that OPM provides for USPTO's 
     specific use shall be recognized as an imputed cost on 
     USPTO's financial statements, where applicable:  Provided 
     further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     all fees and surcharges assessed and collected by USPTO are 
     available for USPTO only pursuant to section 42(c) of title 
     35, United States Code, as amended by section 22 of the 
     Leahy-Smith America Invents Act (Public Law 112-29):  
     Provided further, That within the amounts appropriated, 
     $2,000,000 shall be transferred to the ``Office of Inspector 
     General'' account for activities associated with carrying out 
     investigations and audits related to the USPTO.

             National Institute of Standards and Technology

             scientific and technical research and services

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For necessary expenses of the National Institute of 
     Standards and Technology (NIST), $660,000,000, to remain 
     available until expended, of which not to exceed $9,000,000 
     may be transferred to the ``Working Capital Fund'':  
     Provided, That not to exceed $5,000 shall be for official 
     reception and representation expenses:  Provided further, 
     That NIST may provide local transportation for summer 
     undergraduate research fellowship program participants.

                     industrial technology services

       For necessary expenses for industrial technology services, 
     $105,000,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
     $100,000,000 shall be for the Hollings Manufacturing 
     Extension Partnership, and of which $5,000,000 shall be for 
     the National Network for Manufacturing Innovation.

                  construction of research facilities

       For construction of new research facilities, including 
     architectural and engineering design, and for renovation and 
     maintenance of existing facilities, not otherwise provided 
     for the National Institute of Standards and Technology, as 
     authorized by sections 13 through 15 of the National 
     Institute of Standards and Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 278c-
     278e), $100,000,000, to remain available until expended:  
     Provided, That the Secretary of Commerce shall include in the 
     budget justification materials that the Secretary submits to 
     Congress in support of the Department of Commerce budget (as 
     submitted with the budget of the President under section 
     1105(a) of title 31, United States Code) an estimate for each 
     National Institute of Standards and Technology construction 
     project having a total multi-year program cost of more than 
     $5,000,000, and simultaneously the budget justification 
     materials shall include an estimate of the budgetary 
     requirements for each such project for each of the 5 
     subsequent fiscal years.

            National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

                  operations, research, and facilities

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For necessary expenses of activities authorized by law for 
     the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 
     including maintenance, operation, and hire of aircraft and 
     vessels; grants, contracts, or other payments to nonprofit 
     organizations for the purposes of conducting activities 
     pursuant to cooperative agreements; and relocation of 
     facilities, $3,240,199,000, to remain available until 
     September 30, 2019, except that funds provided for 
     cooperative enforcement shall remain available until 
     September 30, 2020:  Provided, That fees and donations 
     received by the National Ocean Service for the management of 
     national marine sanctuaries may be retained and used for the 
     salaries and expenses associated with those activities, 
     notwithstanding section 3302 of title 31, United States Code: 
      Provided further, That in addition, $144,000,000 shall be 
     derived by transfer from the fund entitled ``Promote and 
     Develop Fishery Products and Research Pertaining to American 
     Fisheries'', which shall only be used for fishery activities 
     related to the Saltonstall-Kennedy Grant Program, Cooperative 
     Research, Annual Stock Assessments, Survey and Monitoring 
     Projects, Interjurisdictional Fisheries Grants, and Fish 
     Information Networks:  Provided further, That of the 
     $3,411,699,000 provided for in direct obligations under this 
     heading, $3,240,199,000 is appropriated from the general 
     fund, $144,000,000 is provided by transfer and $27,500,000 is 
     derived from recoveries of prior year obligations:  Provided 
     further, That any deviation from the amounts designated for 
     specific activities in the report accompanying this Act, or 
     any use of deobligated balances of funds provided under this 
     heading in previous years, shall be subject to the procedures 
     set forth in section 505 of this Act:  Provided further, That 
     in addition, for necessary retired pay expenses under the 
     Retired Serviceman's Family Protection and Survivor Benefits 
     Plan, and for payments for the medical care of retired 
     personnel and their dependents under the Dependents' Medical 
     Care Act (10 U.S.C. ch. 55), such sums as may be necessary.

               procurement, acquisition and construction

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For procurement, acquisition and construction of capital 
     assets, including alteration and modification costs, of the 
     National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 
     $1,643,110,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020, 
     except that funds provided for acquisition and construction 
     of vessels and construction of facilities shall remain 
     available until expended:  Provided, That of the 
     $1,656,110,000 provided for in direct obligations under this 
     heading, $1,643,110,000 is appropriated from the general fund 
     and $13,000,000 is provided from recoveries of prior year 
     obligations:  Provided further, That any deviation from the 
     amounts designated for specific activities in the report 
     accompanying this Act, or any use of deobligated balances of 
     funds provided under this heading in previous years, shall be 
     subject to the procedures set forth in section 505 of this 
     Act:  Provided further, That the Secretary of Commerce shall 
     include in budget justification materials that the Secretary 
     submits to Congress in support of the Department of Commerce 
     budget (as submitted with the budget of the President under 
     section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code) an estimate 
     for each National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
     procurement, acquisition or construction project having a 
     total of more than $5,000,000 and simultaneously the budget 
     justification shall include an estimate of the budgetary 
     requirements for each such project for each of the 5 
     subsequent fiscal years:  Provided further, That, within the 
     amounts appropriated, $1,302,000 shall be transferred to the 
     ``Office of Inspector General'' account for activities 
     associated with carrying out investigations and audits 
     related to satellite procurement, acquisition and 
     construction.

                    pacific coastal salmon recovery

       For necessary expenses associated with the restoration of 
     Pacific salmon populations, $65,000,000, to remain available 
     until September 30, 2019:  Provided, That, of the funds 
     provided herein, the Secretary of Commerce may issue grants 
     to the States of Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Nevada, 
     California, and Alaska, and to the Federally recognized 
     tribes of the Columbia River and Pacific Coast (including 
     Alaska), for projects necessary for conservation of salmon 
     and steelhead populations that are listed as threatened or 
     endangered, or that are identified by a State as at-risk to 
     be so listed, for maintaining populations necessary for 
     exercise of tribal treaty fishing rights or native 
     subsistence fishing, or for conservation of Pacific coastal 
     salmon and steelhead habitat, based on guidelines to be 
     developed by the Secretary of Commerce:  Provided further, 
     That all funds shall be allocated based on scientific and 
     other merit principles and shall not be available for 
     marketing activities:  Provided further, That funds disbursed 
     to States shall be subject to a matching requirement of funds 
     or documented in-kind contributions of at least 33 percent of 
     the Federal funds.

                      fishermen's contingency fund

       For carrying out the provisions of title IV of Public Law 
     95-372, not to exceed $350,000, to be derived from receipts 
     collected pursuant to that Act, to remain available until 
     expended.

                     fisheries disaster assistance

       For the necessary expenses associated with the mitigation 
     of fishery disasters, $20,000,000 to remain available until 
     expended: Provided, That funds shall be used for mitigating 
     the effects of commercial fishery failures and fishery 
     resource disasters as declared by the Secretary of Commerce 
     in 2017.

                   fisheries finance program account

       Subject to section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
     1974, during fiscal year 2018, obligations of direct loans 
     may not exceed $24,000,000 for Individual Fishing Quota loans 
     and not to exceed $100,000,000 for traditional direct loans 
     as authorized by the Merchant Marine Act of 1936.

                        Departmental Management

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses for the management of the Department 
     of Commerce provided for by law, including not to exceed 
     $4,500 for official reception and representation, 
     $58,000,000.

                      renovation and modernization

                      (including transfer of funds)

       For necessary expenses for the renovation and modernization 
     of the Herbert C. Hoover Building, $1,000,000, to remain 
     available until expended:  Provided, That the Secretary of 
     Commerce may transfer up to $8,224,000 to this account from 
     funds available to the Department of Commerce:  Provided 
     further, That the transfer authority provided in the first 
     proviso is in addition to any other transfer authority 
     contained in this Act:  Provided further, That any transfer 
     pursuant to the authority provided under this heading shall 
     be treated as a reprogramming under section 505 of this Act 
     and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
     except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that 
     section.

[[Page H6879]]

  


                      office of inspector general

       For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
     in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act 
     of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), $32,744,000.

               General Provisions--Department of Commerce

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 101.  During the current fiscal year, applicable 
     appropriations and funds made available to the Department of 
     Commerce by this Act shall be available for the activities 
     specified in the Act of October 26, 1949 (15 U.S.C. 1514), to 
     the extent and in the manner prescribed by the Act, and, 
     notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3324, may be used for advanced 
     payments not otherwise authorized only upon the certification 
     of officials designated by the Secretary of Commerce that 
     such payments are in the public interest.
       Sec. 102.  During the current fiscal year, appropriations 
     made available to the Department of Commerce by this Act for 
     salaries and expenses shall be available for hire of 
     passenger motor vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 
     1344; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; and uniforms 
     or allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-
     5902).
       Sec. 103.  Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation 
     made available for the current fiscal year for the Department 
     of Commerce in this Act may be transferred between such 
     appropriations, but no such appropriation shall be increased 
     by more than 10 percent by any such transfers:  Provided, 
     That any transfer pursuant to this section shall be treated 
     as a reprogramming of funds under section 505 of this Act and 
     shall not be available for obligation or expenditure except 
     in compliance with the procedures set forth in that section:  
     Provided further, That the Secretary of Commerce shall notify 
     the Committees on Appropriations at least 15 days in advance 
     of the acquisition or disposal of any capital asset 
     (including land, structures, and equipment) not specifically 
     provided for in this Act or any other law appropriating funds 
     for the Department of Commerce.
       Sec. 104.  The requirements set forth by section 105 of the 
     Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies 
     Appropriations Act, 2012 (Public Law 112-55), as amended by 
     section 105 of title I of division B of Public Law 113-6, are 
     hereby adopted by reference and made applicable with respect 
     to fiscal year 2018:  Provided, That the life cycle cost for 
     the Joint Polar Satellite System is $11,322,125,000 and the 
     life cycle cost for the Geostationary Operational 
     Environmental Satellite R-Series Program is $10,828,059,000.
       Sec. 105.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
     Secretary may furnish services (including but not limited to 
     utilities, telecommunications, and security services) 
     necessary to support the operation, maintenance, and 
     improvement of space that persons, firms, or organizations 
     are authorized, pursuant to the Public Buildings Cooperative 
     Use Act of 1976 or other authority, to use or occupy in the 
     Herbert C. Hoover Building, Washington, DC, or other 
     buildings, the maintenance, operation, and protection of 
     which has been delegated to the Secretary from the 
     Administrator of General Services pursuant to the Federal 
     Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 on a 
     reimbursable or non-reimbursable basis. Amounts received as 
     reimbursement for services provided under this section or the 
     authority under which the use or occupancy of the space is 
     authorized, up to $200,000, shall be credited to the 
     appropriation or fund which initially bears the costs of such 
     services.
       Sec. 106.  Nothing in this title shall be construed to 
     prevent a grant recipient from deterring child pornography, 
     copyright infringement, or any other unlawful activity over 
     its networks.
       Sec. 107.  The Administrator of the National Oceanic and 
     Atmospheric Administration is authorized to use, with their 
     consent, with reimbursement and subject to the limits of 
     available appropriations, the land, services, equipment, 
     personnel, and facilities of any department, agency, or 
     instrumentality of the United States, or of any State, local 
     government, Indian tribal government, Territory, or 
     possession, or of any political subdivision thereof, or of 
     any foreign government or international organization, for 
     purposes related to carrying out the responsibilities of any 
     statute administered by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
     Administration.
       Sec. 108.  The National Technical Information Service shall 
     not charge any customer for a copy of any report or document 
     generated by the Legislative Branch unless the Service has 
     provided information to the customer on how an electronic 
     copy of such report or document may be accessed and 
     downloaded for free online. Should a customer still require 
     the Service to provide a printed or digital copy of the 
     report or document, the charge shall be limited to recovering 
     the Service's cost of processing, reproducing, and delivering 
     such report or document.
       Sec. 109.  To carry out the responsibilities of the 
     National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the 
     Administrator of NOAA is authorized to: (1) enter into grants 
     and cooperative agreements with; (2) use on a non-
     reimbursable basis land, services, equipment, personnel, and 
     facilities provided by; and (3) receive and expend funds made 
     available on a consensual basis from: a Federal agency, State 
     or subdivision thereof, local government, tribal government, 
     territory, or possession or any subdivisions thereof:  
     Provided, That funds received for permitting and related 
     regulatory activities pursuant to this section shall be 
     deposited under the heading ``National Oceanic and 
     Atmospheric Administration--Operations, Research, and 
     Facilities'' and shall remain available until September 30, 
     2020, for such purposes:  Provided further, That all funds 
     within this section and their corresponding uses are subject 
     to section 505 of this Act.
       This title may be cited as the ``Department of Commerce 
     Appropriations Act, 2018''.

                                TITLE II

                         DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                         General Administration

                         salaries and expenses

       For expenses necessary for the administration of the 
     Department of Justice, $89,000,000, of which not to exceed 
     $4,000,000 for security and construction of Department of 
     Justice facilities shall remain available until expended.

                 justice information sharing technology

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For necessary expenses for information sharing technology, 
     including planning, development, deployment and departmental 
     direction, $30,941,000, to remain available until expended:  
     Provided, That the Attorney General may transfer up to 
     $35,400,000 to this account, from funds available to the 
     Department of Justice for information technology, to remain 
     available until expended, for enterprise-wide information 
     technology initiatives:  Provided further, That the transfer 
     authority in the preceding proviso is in addition to any 
     other transfer authority contained in this Act:  Provided 
     further, That any transfer pursuant to the first proviso 
     shall be treated as a reprogramming under section 505 of this 
     Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
     except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that 
     section.

                executive office for immigration review

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For expenses necessary for the administration of 
     immigration-related activities of the Executive Office for 
     Immigration Review, $504,500,000, of which $4,000,000 shall 
     be derived by transfer from the Executive Office for 
     Immigration Review fees deposited in the ``Immigration 
     Examinations Fee'' account:  Provided, That not to exceed 
     $35,000,000 of the total amount made available under this 
     heading shall remain available until expended.

                      office of inspector general

       For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
     $95,583,000, including not to exceed $10,000 to meet 
     unforeseen emergencies of a confidential character.

                    United States Parole Commission

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the United States Parole 
     Commission as authorized, $13,000,000:  Provided, That, 
     notwithstanding any other provision of law, upon the 
     expiration of a term of office of a Commissioner, the 
     Commissioner may continue to act until a successor has been 
     appointed.

                            Legal Activities

            salaries and expenses, general legal activities

       For expenses necessary for the legal activities of the 
     Department of Justice, not otherwise provided for, including 
     not to exceed $20,000 for expenses of collecting evidence, to 
     be expended under the direction of, and to be accounted for 
     solely under the certificate of, the Attorney General; the 
     administration of pardon and clemency petitions; and rent of 
     private or Government-owned space in the District of 
     Columbia, $897,500,000, of which not to exceed $20,000,000 
     for litigation support contracts shall remain available until 
     expended:  Provided, That of the amount provided for INTERPOL 
     Washington dues payments, not to exceed $685,000 shall remain 
     available until expended:  Provided further, That of the 
     total amount appropriated, not to exceed $9,000 shall be 
     available to INTERPOL Washington for official reception and 
     representation expenses:  Provided further, That of the 
     amount appropriated, such sums as may be necessary shall be 
     available to the Civil Rights Division for salaries and 
     expenses associated with the election monitoring program 
     under section 8 of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 (52 U.S.C. 
     10305) and to reimburse the Office of Personnel Management 
     for such salaries and expenses:  Provided further, That of 
     the amounts provided under this heading for the election 
     monitoring program, $3,390,000 shall remain available until 
     expended.
       In addition, for reimbursement of expenses of the 
     Department of Justice associated with processing cases under 
     the National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act of 1986, not to 
     exceed $10,000,000, to be appropriated from the Vaccine 
     Injury Compensation Trust Fund.

               salaries and expenses, antitrust division

       For expenses necessary for the enforcement of antitrust and 
     kindred laws, $163,980,000, to remain available until 
     expended:  Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision 
     of law, fees collected for premerger notification filings 
     under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 
     1976 (15 U.S.C. 18a), regardless of the year of collection 
     (and estimated to be $126,000,000 in fiscal year 2018), shall 
     be retained and used for necessary expenses in this 
     appropriation, and shall remain available until expended:  
     Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated from the 
     general fund shall be reduced as such offsetting collections 
     are received during fiscal year 2018, so as to result in a 
     final fiscal year 2018 appropriation from the general fund 
     estimated at $37,980,000.

             salaries and expenses, united states attorneys

       For necessary expenses of the Offices of the United States 
     Attorneys, including inter-governmental and cooperative 
     agreements, $2,057,252,000:  Provided, That of the total 
     amount appropriated, not to exceed $7,200 shall be available 
     for official reception and representation expenses:  Provided 
     further, That not to exceed $25,000,000 shall remain 
     available until expended:  Provided further, That each United 
     States Attorney shall establish or participate in a task 
     force on human trafficking.

[[Page H6880]]

  


                   united states trustee system fund

       For necessary expenses of the United States Trustee 
     Program, as authorized, $225,000,000, to remain available 
     until expended:  Provided, That, notwithstanding any other 
     provision of law, deposits to the United States Trustee 
     System Fund and amounts herein appropriated shall be 
     available in such amounts as may be necessary to pay refunds 
     due depositors:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding any 
     other provision of law, fees collected pursuant to section 
     589a(b) of title 28, United States Code, shall be retained 
     and used for necessary expenses in this appropriation and 
     shall remain available until expended:  Provided further, 
     That to the extent that fees collected in fiscal year 2018, 
     net of amounts necessary to pay refunds due depositors, 
     exceed $225,000,000, those excess amounts shall be available 
     in future fiscal years only to the extent provided in advance 
     in appropriations Acts:  Provided further, That the sum 
     herein appropriated from the general fund shall be reduced 
     (1) as such fees are received during fiscal year 2018, net of 
     amounts necessary to pay refunds due depositors, (estimated 
     at $135,000,000) and (2) to the extent that any remaining 
     general fund appropriations can be derived from amounts 
     deposited in the Fund in previous fiscal years that are not 
     otherwise appropriated, so as to result in a final fiscal 
     year 2018 appropriation from the general fund estimated at 
     $90,000,000.

      salaries and expenses, foreign claims settlement commission

       For expenses necessary to carry out the activities of the 
     Foreign Claims Settlement Commission, including services as 
     authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, 
     $2,374,000.

                     fees and expenses of witnesses

       For fees and expenses of witnesses, for expenses of 
     contracts for the procurement and supervision of expert 
     witnesses, for private counsel expenses, including advances, 
     and for expenses of foreign counsel, $270,000,000, to remain 
     available until expended, of which not to exceed $16,000,000 
     is for construction of buildings for protected witness 
     safesites; not to exceed $3,000,000 is for the purchase and 
     maintenance of armored and other vehicles for witness 
     security caravans; and not to exceed $13,000,000 is for the 
     purchase, installation, maintenance, and upgrade of secure 
     telecommunications equipment and a secure automated 
     information network to store and retrieve the identities and 
     locations of protected witnesses:  Provided, That amounts 
     made available under this heading may not be transferred 
     pursuant to section 205 of this Act.

           salaries and expenses, community relations service

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For necessary expenses of the Community Relations Service, 
     $15,000,000:  Provided, That notwithstanding section 205 of 
     this Act, upon a determination by the Attorney General that 
     emergent circumstances require additional funding for 
     conflict resolution and violence prevention activities of the 
     Community Relations Service, the Attorney General may 
     transfer such amounts to the Community Relations Service, 
     from available appropriations for the current fiscal year for 
     the Department of Justice, as may be necessary to respond to 
     such circumstances:  Provided further, That any transfer 
     pursuant to the preceding proviso shall be treated as a 
     reprogramming under section 505 of this Act and shall not be 
     available for obligation or expenditure except in compliance 
     with the procedures set forth in that section.

                         assets forfeiture fund

       For expenses authorized by subparagraphs (B), (F), and (G) 
     of section 524(c)(1) of title 28, United States Code, 
     $20,514,000, to be derived from the Department of Justice 
     Assets Forfeiture Fund.

                     United States Marshals Service

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the United States Marshals 
     Service, $1,255,000,000, of which not to exceed $6,000 shall 
     be available for official reception and representation 
     expenses, and not to exceed $15,000,000 shall remain 
     available until expended.

                              construction

       For construction in space controlled, occupied or utilized 
     by the United States Marshals Service for prisoner holding 
     and related support, $10,000,000, to remain available until 
     expended.

                       federal prisoner detention

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For necessary expenses related to United States prisoners 
     in the custody of the United States Marshals Service as 
     authorized by section 4013 of title 18, United States Code, 
     $1,536,000,000, to remain available until expended:  
     Provided, That not to exceed $20,000,000 shall be considered 
     ``funds appropriated for State and local law enforcement 
     assistance'' pursuant to section 4013(b) of title 18, United 
     States Code:  Provided further, That the United States 
     Marshals Service shall be responsible for managing the 
     Justice Prisoner and Alien Transportation System:  Provided 
     further, That any unobligated balances available from funds 
     appropriated under the heading ``General Administration, 
     Detention Trustee'' shall be transferred to and merged with 
     the appropriation under this heading.

                       National Security Division

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For expenses necessary to carry out the activities of the 
     National Security Division, $100,000,000, of which not to 
     exceed $5,000,000 for information technology systems shall 
     remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
     notwithstanding section 205 of this Act, upon a determination 
     by the Attorney General that emergent circumstances require 
     additional funding for the activities of the National 
     Security Division, the Attorney General may transfer such 
     amounts to this heading from available appropriations for the 
     current fiscal year for the Department of Justice, as may be 
     necessary to respond to such circumstances:  Provided 
     further, That any transfer pursuant to the preceding proviso 
     shall be treated as a reprogramming under section 505 of this 
     Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
     except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that 
     section.

                      Interagency Law Enforcement

                 interagency crime and drug enforcement

       For necessary expenses for the identification, 
     investigation, and prosecution of individuals associated with 
     the most significant drug trafficking organizations, 
     transnational organized crime, and money laundering 
     organizations not otherwise provided for, to include inter-
     governmental agreements with State and local law enforcement 
     agencies engaged in the investigation and prosecution of 
     individuals involved in transnational organized crime and 
     drug trafficking, $526,000,000, of which $50,000,000 shall 
     remain available until expended:  Provided, That any amounts 
     obligated from appropriations under this heading may be used 
     under authorities available to the organizations reimbursed 
     from this appropriation.

                    Federal Bureau of Investigation

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Federal Bureau of 
     Investigation for detection, investigation, and prosecution 
     of crimes against the United States, $8,814,747,000, of which 
     not to exceed $216,900,000 shall remain available until 
     expended:  Provided, That not to exceed $184,500 shall be 
     available for official reception and representation expenses.

                              construction

       For necessary expenses, to include the cost of equipment, 
     furniture, and information technology requirements, related 
     to construction or acquisition of buildings, facilities and 
     sites by purchase, or as otherwise authorized by law; 
     conversion, modification and extension of federally owned 
     buildings; preliminary planning and design of projects; and 
     operation and maintenance of secure work environment 
     facilities and secure networking capabilities; $51,895,000, 
     to remain available until expended.

                    Drug Enforcement Administration

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Drug Enforcement 
     Administration, including not to exceed $70,000 to meet 
     unforeseen emergencies of a confidential character pursuant 
     to section 530C of title 28, United States Code; and expenses 
     for conducting drug education and training programs, 
     including travel and related expenses for participants in 
     such programs and the distribution of items of token value 
     that promote the goals of such programs, $2,164,051,000, of 
     which not to exceed $75,000,000 shall remain available until 
     expended and not to exceed $90,000 shall be available for 
     official reception and representation expenses.

          Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, 
     Firearms and Explosives, for training of State and local law 
     enforcement agencies with or without reimbursement, including 
     training in connection with the training and acquisition of 
     canines for explosives and fire accelerants detection; and 
     for provision of laboratory assistance to State and local law 
     enforcement agencies, with or without reimbursement, 
     $1,293,776,000, of which not to exceed $36,000 shall be for 
     official reception and representation expenses, not to exceed 
     $1,000,000 shall be available for the payment of attorneys' 
     fees as provided by section 924(d)(2) of title 18, United 
     States Code, and not to exceed $20,000,000 shall remain 
     available until expended: Provided, That none of the funds 
     appropriated herein shall be available to investigate or act 
     upon applications for relief from Federal firearms 
     disabilities under section 925(c) of title 18, United States 
     Code: Provided further, That such funds shall be available to 
     investigate and act upon applications filed by corporations 
     for relief from Federal firearms disabilities under section 
     925(c) of title 18, United States Code:  Provided further, 
     That no funds made available by this or any other Act may be 
     used to transfer the functions, missions, or activities of 
     the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives to 
     other agencies or Departments.

                         Federal Prison System

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For necessary expenses of the Federal Prison System for the 
     administration, operation, and maintenance of Federal penal 
     and correctional institutions, and for the provision of 
     technical assistance and advice on corrections related issues 
     to foreign governments, $7,070,248,000:  Provided, That the 
     Attorney General may transfer to the Department of Health and 
     Human Services such amounts as may be necessary for direct 
     expenditures by that Department for medical relief for 
     inmates of Federal penal and correctional institutions:  
     Provided further, That the Director of the Federal Prison 
     System, where necessary, may enter into contracts with a 
     fiscal agent or fiscal intermediary claims processor to 
     determine the amounts payable to persons who, on behalf of 
     the Federal Prison System, furnish health services to 
     individuals committed to the custody of the Federal Prison 
     System:  Provided further, That not to exceed $5,400

[[Page H6881]]

     shall be available for official reception and representation 
     expenses:  Provided further, That not to exceed $50,000,000 
     shall remain available for necessary operations until 
     September 30, 2019:  Provided further, That, of the amounts 
     provided for contract confinement, not to exceed $20,000,000 
     shall remain available until expended to make payments in 
     advance for grants, contracts and reimbursable agreements, 
     and other expenses:  Provided further, That the Director of 
     the Federal Prison System may accept donated property and 
     services relating to the operation of the prison card program 
     from a not-for-profit entity which has operated such program 
     in the past, notwithstanding the fact that such not-for-
     profit entity furnishes services under contracts to the 
     Federal Prison System relating to the operation of pre-
     release services, halfway houses, or other custodial 
     facilities.

                        buildings and facilities

       For planning, acquisition of sites and construction of new 
     facilities; purchase and acquisition of facilities and 
     remodeling, and equipping of such facilities for penal and 
     correctional use, including all necessary expenses incident 
     thereto, by contract or force account; and constructing, 
     remodeling, and equipping necessary buildings and facilities 
     at existing penal and correctional institutions, including 
     all necessary expenses incident thereto, by contract or force 
     account, $95,000,000, to remain available until expended:  
     Provided, That labor of United States prisoners may be used 
     for work performed under this appropriation.

                federal prison industries, incorporated

       The Federal Prison Industries, Incorporated, is hereby 
     authorized to make such expenditures within the limits of 
     funds and borrowing authority available, and in accord with 
     the law, and to make such contracts and commitments without 
     regard to fiscal year limitations as provided by section 9104 
     of title 31, United States Code, as may be necessary in 
     carrying out the program set forth in the budget for the 
     current fiscal year for such corporation.

   limitation on administrative expenses, federal prison industries, 
                              incorporated

       Not to exceed $2,700,000 of the funds of the Federal Prison 
     Industries, Incorporated, shall be available for its 
     administrative expenses, and for services as authorized by 
     section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, to be computed 
     on an accrual basis to be determined in accordance with the 
     corporation's current prescribed accounting system, and such 
     amounts shall be exclusive of depreciation, payment of 
     claims, and expenditures which such accounting system 
     requires to be capitalized or charged to cost of commodities 
     acquired or produced, including selling and shipping 
     expenses, and expenses in connection with acquisition, 
     construction, operation, maintenance, improvement, 
     protection, or disposition of facilities and other property 
     belonging to the corporation or in which it has an interest.

               State and Local Law Enforcement Activities

                    Office on Violence Against Women

       violence against women prevention and prosecution programs

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other 
     assistance for the prevention and prosecution of violence 
     against women, as authorized by the Omnibus Crime Control and 
     Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3711 et seq.) (``the 1968 
     Act''); the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 
     1994 (Public Law 103-322) (``the 1994 Act''); the Victims of 
     Child Abuse Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-647) (``the 1990 
     Act''); the Prosecutorial Remedies and Other Tools to end the 
     Exploitation of Children Today Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-
     21); the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 
     1974 (42 U.S.C. 5601 et seq.) (``the 1974 Act''); the Victims 
     of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000 (Public 
     Law 106-386) (``the 2000 Act''); the Violence Against Women 
     and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public 
     Law 109-162) (``the 2005 Act''); the Violence Against Women 
     Reauthorization Act of 2013 (Public Law 113-4) (``the 2013 
     Act''); and the Rape Survivor Child Custody Act of 2015 
     (Public Law 114-22) (``the 2015 Act''); and for related 
     victims services, $527,000,000, to remain available until 
     expended: Provided, That except as otherwise provided by law, 
     not to exceed 5 percent of funds made available under this 
     heading may be used for expenses related to evaluation, 
     training, and technical assistance: Provided further, That of 
     the amount provided--
       (1) $215,000,000 is for grants to combat violence against 
     women, as authorized by part T of the 1968 Act;
       (2) $30,000,000 is for transitional housing assistance 
     grants for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, 
     stalking, or sexual assault as authorized by section 40299 of 
     the 1994 Act;
       (3) $3,500,000 is for the National Institute of Justice for 
     research and evaluation of violence against women and related 
     issues addressed by grant programs of the Office on Violence 
     Against Women, which shall be transferred to ``Research, 
     Evaluation and Statistics'' for administration by the Office 
     of Justice Programs;
       (4) $11,000,000 is for a grant program to provide services 
     to advocate for and respond to youth victims of domestic 
     violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking; 
     assistance to children and youth exposed to such violence; 
     programs to engage men and youth in preventing such violence; 
     and assistance to middle and high school students through 
     education and other services related to such violence: 
     Provided, That unobligated balances available for the 
     programs authorized by sections 41201, 41204, 41303, and 
     41305 of the 1994 Act, prior to its amendment by the 2013 
     Act, shall be available for this program: Provided further, 
     That 10 percent of the total amount available for this grant 
     program shall be available for grants under the program 
     authorized by section 2015 of the 1968 Act: Provided further, 
     That the definitions and grant conditions in section 40002 of 
     the 1994 Act shall apply to this program;
       (5) $53,000,000 is for grants to encourage arrest policies 
     as authorized by part U of the 1968 Act, of which $4,000,000 
     is for a homicide reduction initiative;
       (6) $35,000,000 is for sexual assault victims assistance, 
     as authorized by section 41601 of the 1994 Act;
       (7) $35,000,000 is for rural domestic violence and child 
     abuse enforcement assistance grants, as authorized by section 
     40295 of the 1994 Act;
       (8) $20,000,000 is for grants to reduce violent crimes 
     against women on campus, as authorized by section 304 of the 
     2005 Act;
       (9) $45,000,000 is for legal assistance for victims, as 
     authorized by section 1201 of the 2000 Act;
       (10) $5,000,000 is for enhanced training and services to 
     end violence against and abuse of women in later life, as 
     authorized by section 40802 of the 1994 Act;
       (11) $16,000,000 is for grants to support families in the 
     justice system, as authorized by section 1301 of the 2000 
     Act: Provided, That unobligated balances available for the 
     programs authorized by section 1301 of the 2000 Act and 
     section 41002 of the 1994 Act, prior to their amendment by 
     the 2013 Act, shall be available for this program;
       (12) $6,000,000 is for education and training to end 
     violence against and abuse of women with disabilities, as 
     authorized by section 1402 of the 2000 Act;
       (13) $500,000 is for the National Resource Center on 
     Workplace Responses to assist victims of domestic violence, 
     as authorized by section 41501 of the 1994 Act;
       (14) $1,000,000 is for analysis and research on violence 
     against Indian women, including as authorized by section 904 
     of the 2005 Act: Provided, That such funds may be transferred 
     to ``Research, Evaluation and Statistics'' for administration 
     by the Office of Justice Programs;
       (15) $500,000 is for a national clearinghouse that provides 
     training and technical assistance on issues relating to 
     sexual assault of American Indian and Alaska Native women;
       (16) $4,000,000 is for grants to assist tribal governments;
       (17) $45,000,000 for victim services programs for victims 
     of trafficking, as authorized by section 107(b)(2) of Public 
     Law 106-386, for programs authorized under Public Law 109-
     164, or programs authorized under Public Law 113-4; and
       (18) $1,500,000 for the purposes authorized under the 2015 
     Act.

                       Office of Justice Programs

                  research, evaluation and statistics

       For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other 
     assistance authorized by title I of the Omnibus Crime Control 
     and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (``the 1968 Act''); subtitle D 
     of title II of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (Public Law 
     107-296) (``the 2002 Act''); and other programs, $83,000,000, 
     to remain available until expended, of which--
       (1) $44,500,000 is for criminal justice statistics 
     programs, and other activities, as authorized by part C of 
     title I of the 1968 Act; and
       (2) $38,500,000 is for research, development, and 
     evaluation programs, and other activities as authorized by 
     part B of title I of the 1968 Act and subtitle D of title II 
     of the 2002 Act.

               state and local law enforcement assistance

       For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other 
     assistance authorized by the Violent Crime Control and Law 
     Enforcement Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-322) (``the 1994 
     Act''); the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 
     1968 (``the 1968 Act''); the Justice for All Act of 2004 
     (Public Law 108-405); the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990 
     (Public Law 101-647) (``the 1990 Act''); the Trafficking 
     Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 
     109-164); the Violence Against Women and Department of 
     Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-162) 
     (``the 2005 Act''); the Adam Walsh Child Protection and 
     Safety Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-248) (``the Adam Walsh 
     Act''); the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection 
     Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-386); the NICS Improvement 
     Amendments Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-180); subtitle D of 
     title II of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (Public Law 
     107-296) (``the 2002 Act''); the Public Safety Officer Medal 
     of Valor Act of 2001 (Public Law 107-12); the Second Chance 
     Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-199); the Prioritizing Resources 
     and Organization for Intellectual Property Act of 2008 
     (Public Law 110-403); the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 
     (Public Law 98-473); the Violence Against Women 
     Reauthorization Act of 2013 (Public Law 113-4) (``the 2013 
     Act''); the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016 
     (Public Law 114-198) (``CARA''); and other programs, 
     $1,143,500,000, to remain available until expended as 
     follows--
       (1) $500,000,000 for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice 
     Assistance Grant program as authorized by subpart 1 of part E 
     of title I of the 1968 Act (except that section 1001(c), and 
     the special rules for Puerto Rico under section 505(g) of 
     title I of the 1968 Act shall not apply for purposes of this 
     Act), of which, notwithstanding such subpart 1, $10,000,000 
     is for the Officer Robert Wilson III Memorial Initiative on 
     Preventing Violence Against Law Enforcement Officer 
     Resilience and Survivability (VALOR), $4,000,000 is for use 
     by the National Institute of Justice for research targeted 
     toward developing a better understanding of the domestic 
     radicalization phenomenon, and advancing evidence-based 
     strategies for effective intervention and prevention, 
     $2,000,000 is for a program to improve juvenile indigent 
     defense, $2,400,000 is for the operationalization, 
     maintenance and expansion of the National Missing and 
     Unidentified Persons System, $10,000,000 is for competitive 
     and

[[Page H6882]]

     evidence-based programs to reduce gun crime and gang 
     violence, $2,500,000 is for the Capital Litigation 
     Improvement Grant Program, as authorized by section 426 of 
     Public Law 108-405 and for grants for wrongful conviction 
     review, $15,500,000 is for prison rape prevention and 
     prosecution grants to States and units of local government, 
     and other programs, as authorized by the Prison Rape 
     Elimination Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-79), and $10,000,000 
     is for white collar crime prevention grants, including as 
     authorized by section 401 of Public Law 110-403;
       (2) $220,000,000 for the State Criminal Alien Assistance 
     Program, as authorized by section 241(i)(5) of the 
     Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1231(i)(5)): 
     Provided, That no jurisdiction shall request compensation for 
     any cost greater than the actual cost for Federal immigration 
     and other detainees housed in State and local detention 
     facilities;
       (3) $20,000,000 for sex offender management assistance, as 
     authorized by the Adam Walsh Act, and related activities;
       (4) $22,500,000 for the matching grant program for law 
     enforcement armor vests, as authorized by section 2501 of 
     title I of the 1968 Act;
       (5) $1,000,000 for the National Sex Offender Public 
     Website;
       (6) $73,000,000 for grants to States to upgrade criminal 
     and mental health records for the National Instant Criminal 
     Background Check System;
       (7) $125,000,000 for DNA-related and forensic programs and 
     activities, of which--
       (A) $117,000,000 is for a DNA analysis and capacity 
     enhancement program and for other local, State, and Federal 
     forensic activities, including the purposes authorized under 
     section 2 of the DNA Analysis Backlog Elimination Act of 2000 
     (Public Law 106-546) (the Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Grant 
     Program): Provided, That up to 4 percent of funds made 
     available under this paragraph may be used for the purposes 
     described in the DNA Training and Education for Law 
     Enforcement, Correctional Personnel, and Court Officers 
     program (Public Law 108-405, section 303);
       (B) $4,000,000 is for the purposes described in the Kirk 
     Bloodsworth Post-Conviction DNA Testing Grant Program (Public 
     Law 108-405, section 412); and
       (C) $4,000,000 is for Sexual Assault Forensic Exam Program 
     grants, including as authorized by section 304 of Public Law 
     108-405;
       (8) $9,000,000 for the court-appointed special advocate 
     program, as authorized by section 217 of the 1990 Act;
       (9) $118,000,000 for comprehensive opioid abuse reduction 
     activities, including as authorized by CARA, and for the 
     following programs, which shall address opioid abuse 
     reduction consistent with underlying program authorities--
       (A) $43,000,000 for Drug Courts, as authorized by section 
     1001(a)(25)(A) of title I of the 1968 Act;
       (B) $12,000,000 for mental health courts and adult and 
     juvenile collaboration program grants, as authorized by parts 
     V and HH of title I of the 1968 Act;
       (C) $12,000,000 for grants for Residential Substance Abuse 
     Treatment for State Prisoners, as authorized by part S of 
     title I of the 1968 Act;
       (D) $7,000,000 for a veterans treatment courts program; and
       (E) $14,000,000 for a program to monitor prescription drugs 
     and scheduled listed chemical products;
       (10) $10,000,000 for emergency law enforcement assistance 
     for events occurring during or after fiscal year 2018, as 
     authorized by section 609M of the Justice Assistance Act of 
     1984 (42 U.S.C. 10501; Public Law 98-473); and
       (11) $45,000,000 for the Comprehensive School Safety 
     Initiative:
      Provided, That, if a unit of local government uses any of 
     the funds made available under this heading to increase the 
     number of law enforcement officers, the unit of local 
     government will achieve a net gain in the number of law 
     enforcement officers who perform non-administrative public 
     sector safety service.

                       juvenile justice programs

       For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other 
     assistance, the following amounts are made available until 
     expended--
       (1) $75,000,000 for youth mentoring grants;
       (2) $21,000,000 for programs authorized by the Victims of 
     Child Abuse Act of 1990;
       (3) $72,500,000 for missing and exploited children 
     programs, including as authorized by sections 404(b) and 
     405(a) of the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act 
     of 1974 (except that section 102(b)(4)(B) of the PROTECT Our 
     Children Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-401) shall not apply for 
     purposes of this Act); and
       (4) $2,000,000 for child abuse training programs for 
     judicial personnel and practitioners, as authorized by 
     section 222 of the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990.

                     public safety officer benefits

                      (including transfer of funds)

       For payments and expenses authorized under section 
     1001(a)(4) of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe 
     Streets Act of 1968, such sums as are necessary (including 
     amounts for administrative costs), to remain available until 
     expended; and $16,300,000 for payments authorized by section 
     1201(b) of such Act and for educational assistance authorized 
     by section 1218 of such Act, to remain available until 
     expended: Provided, That notwithstanding section 205 of this 
     Act, upon a determination by the Attorney General that 
     emergent circumstances require additional funding for such 
     disability and education payments, the Attorney General may 
     transfer such amounts to ``Public Safety Officer Benefits'' 
     from available appropriations for the Department of Justice 
     as may be necessary to respond to such circumstances: 
     Provided further, That any transfer pursuant to the preceding 
     proviso shall be treated as a reprogramming under section 505 
     of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or 
     expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set 
     forth in that section.

                  Community Oriented Policing Services

             community oriented policing services programs

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other 
     assistance, the following amounts are made available until 
     expended: Provided, That any balances made available through 
     prior year deobligations shall only be available in 
     accordance with section 505 of this Act--
       (1) $11,000,000 for anti-methamphetamine-related 
     activities, which shall be transferred to the Drug 
     Enforcement Administration upon enactment of this Act;
       (2) $10,000,000 is for activities authorized by the POLICE 
     Act of 2016 (Public Law 114-199);
       (3) $65,000,000 for initiatives to improve police-community 
     relations, as described in the report accompanying this Act;
       (4) $68,000,000 for offender reentry programs and research, 
     as authorized by the Second Chance Act of 2007 (Public Law 
     110-199), without regard to the time limitations specified at 
     section 6(1) of such Act, of which not to exceed $5,000,000 
     is for Children of Incarcerated Parents Demonstrations to 
     enhance and maintain parental and family relationships for 
     incarcerated parents as a reentry or recidivism reduction 
     strategy, and $2,000,000 shall be for competitive grants 
     focusing on girls in the juvenile justice system;
       (5) $45,000,000 for a grant program for community-based 
     sexual assault response reform; and
       (6) $35,000,000 is for regional information sharing 
     activities, as authorized by part M of title I of the Omnibus 
     Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968.

               General Provisions--Department of Justice

                      (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 201.  In addition to amounts otherwise made available 
     in this title for official reception and representation 
     expenses, a total of not to exceed $50,000 from funds 
     appropriated to the Department of Justice in this title shall 
     be available to the Attorney General for official reception 
     and representation expenses.
       Sec. 202.  None of the funds appropriated by this title 
     shall be available to pay for an abortion, except where the 
     life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were 
     carried to term, or in the case of rape or incest:  Provided, 
     That should this prohibition be declared unconstitutional by 
     a court of competent jurisdiction, this section shall be null 
     and void.
       Sec. 203.  None of the funds appropriated under this title 
     shall be used to require any person to perform, or facilitate 
     in any way the performance of, any abortion.
       Sec. 204.  Nothing in the preceding section shall remove 
     the obligation of the Director of the Bureau of Prisons to 
     provide escort services necessary for a female inmate to 
     receive such service outside the Federal facility:  Provided, 
     That nothing in this section in any way diminishes the effect 
     of section 203 intended to address the philosophical beliefs 
     of individual employees of the Bureau of Prisons.
       Sec. 205.  Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation 
     made available for the current fiscal year for the Department 
     of Justice in this Act may be transferred between such 
     appropriations, but no such appropriation, except as 
     otherwise specifically provided, shall be increased by more 
     than 10 percent by any such transfers:  Provided, That any 
     transfer pursuant to this section shall be treated as a 
     reprogramming of funds under section 505 of this Act and 
     shall not be available for obligation except in compliance 
     with the procedures set forth in that section.
       Sec. 206.  None of the funds made available under this 
     title may be used by the Federal Bureau of Prisons or the 
     United States Marshals Service for the purpose of 
     transporting an individual who is a prisoner pursuant to 
     conviction for crime under State or Federal law and is 
     classified as a maximum or high security prisoner, other than 
     to a prison or other facility certified by the Federal Bureau 
     of Prisons as appropriately secure for housing such a 
     prisoner.
       Sec. 207. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
     may be used by Federal prisons to purchase cable television 
     services, or to rent or purchase audiovisual or electronic 
     media or equipment used primarily for recreational purposes.
       (b) Subsection (a) does not preclude the rental, 
     maintenance, or purchase of audiovisual or electronic media 
     or equipment for inmate training, religious, or educational 
     programs.
       Sec. 208.  None of the funds made available under this 
     title shall be obligated or expended for any new or enhanced 
     information technology program having total estimated 
     development costs in excess of $100,000,000, unless the 
     Deputy Attorney General and the investment review board 
     certify to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate that the information 
     technology program has appropriate program management 
     controls and contractor oversight mechanisms in place, and 
     that the program is compatible with the enterprise 
     architecture of the Department of Justice.
       Sec. 209.  The notification thresholds and procedures set 
     forth in section 505 of this Act shall apply to deviations 
     from the amounts designated for specific activities in this 
     Act and in the report accompanying this Act, and to any use 
     of deobligated balances of funds provided under this title in 
     previous years.
       Sec. 210.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may 
     be used to plan for, begin, continue, finish, process, or 
     approve a public-private competition under the Office of 
     Management and Budget Circular A-76 or any successor

[[Page H6883]]

     administrative regulation, directive, or policy for work 
     performed by employees of Federal Prison Industries, 
     Incorporated.
       Sec. 211.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no 
     funds shall be available for the salary, benefits, or 
     expenses of any United States Attorney assigned dual or 
     additional responsibilities by the Attorney General or his 
     designee that exempt that United States Attorney from the 
     residency requirements of section 545 of title 28, United 
     States Code.
       Sec. 212.  At the discretion of the Attorney General, and 
     in addition to any amounts that otherwise may be available 
     (or authorized to be made available) by law, with respect to 
     funds appropriated by this title under the headings 
     ``Research, Evaluation and Statistics'', ``State and Local 
     Law Enforcement Assistance'', and ``Juvenile Justice 
     Programs''--
       (1) up to 3 percent of funds made available to the Office 
     of Justice Programs for grant or reimbursement programs may 
     be used by such Office to provide training and technical 
     assistance; and
       (2) up to 3 percent of funds made available for grant or 
     reimbursement programs under such headings, except for 
     amounts appropriated specifically for research, evaluation, 
     or statistical programs administered by the National 
     Institute of Justice and the Bureau of Justice Statistics, 
     shall be transferred to and merged with funds provided to the 
     National Institute of Justice and the Bureau of Justice 
     Statistics, to be used by them for research, evaluation, or 
     statistical purposes, without regard to the authorizations 
     for such grant or reimbursement programs.
       Sec. 213.  In addition to any amounts that otherwise may be 
     available (or authorized to be made available) by law, 7 
     percent of funds made available for grant or reimbursement 
     programs--
       (1) under the heading ``State and Local Law Enforcement 
     Assistance'' (except for funds made available under paragraph 
     (2) under such heading); and
       (2) under the headings ``Juvenile Justice Programs'' 
     (except for funds made available under paragraph (3) under 
     such heading) and ``Community Oriented Policing Services 
     Programs'', to be transferred to and merged with funds made 
     available under the heading ``State and Local Law Enforcement 
     Assistance'',
     shall be available for assistance to Indian tribes without 
     regard to the authorizations for such grant or reimbursement 
     programs.
       Sec. 214.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     section 20109(a) of subtitle A of title II of the Violent 
     Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 
     13709(a)) shall not apply to amounts made available by this 
     or any other Act.
       Sec. 215.  None of the funds made available under this or 
     any other Act, for fiscal year 2018 and each fiscal year 
     thereafter, other than for the national instant criminal 
     background check system established under section 103 of the 
     Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act (18 U.S.C. 922 note), 
     may be used by a Federal law enforcement officer to 
     facilitate the transfer of an operable firearm to an 
     individual if the Federal law enforcement officer knows or 
     suspects that the individual is an agent of a drug cartel, 
     unless law enforcement personnel of the United States 
     continuously monitor or control the firearm at all times.
       Sec. 216. (a) None of the income retained in the Department 
     of Justice Working Capital Fund pursuant to title I of Public 
     Law 102-140 (105 Stat. 784; 28 U.S.C. 527 note) shall be 
     available for obligation during fiscal year 2018, except up 
     to $40,000,000 may be obligated for implementation of a 
     unified Department of Justice financial management system.
       (b) Not to exceed $30,000,000 of the unobligated balances 
     transferred to the capital account of the Department of 
     Justice Working Capital Fund pursuant to title I of Public 
     Law 102-140 (105 Stat. 784; 28 U.S.C. 527 note) shall be 
     available for obligation in fiscal year 2018, and any use, 
     obligation, transfer or allocation of such funds shall be 
     treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 505 of this 
     Act.
       (c) Not to exceed $10,000,000 of the excess unobligated 
     balances available under section 524(c)(8)(E) of title 28, 
     United States Code, shall be available for obligation during 
     fiscal year 2018, and any use, obligation, transfer or 
     allocation of such funds shall be treated as a reprogramming 
     of funds under section 505 of this Act.
       This title may be cited as the ``Department of Justice 
     Appropriations Act, 2018''.

                               TITLE III

                                SCIENCE

                Office of Science and Technology Policy

       For necessary expenses of the Office of Science and 
     Technology Policy, in carrying out the purposes of the 
     National Science and Technology Policy, Organization, and 
     Priorities Act of 1976 (42 U.S.C. 6601 et seq.), hire of 
     passenger motor vehicles, and services as authorized by 
     section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, not to exceed 
     $2,250 for official reception and representation expenses, 
     and rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia, 
     $5,544,000.

             National Aeronautics and Space Administration

                                science

       For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the 
     conduct and support of science research and development 
     activities, including research, development, operations, 
     support, and services; maintenance and repair, facility 
     planning and design; space flight, spacecraft control, and 
     communications activities; program management; personnel and 
     related costs, including uniforms or allowances therefor, as 
     authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United 
     States Code; travel expenses; purchase and hire of passenger 
     motor vehicles; and purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, 
     and operation of mission and administrative aircraft, 
     $5,858,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019: 
      Provided, That the formulation and development costs (with 
     development cost as defined under section 30104 of title 51, 
     United States Code) for the James Webb Space Telescope shall 
     not exceed $8,000,000,000:  Provided further, That should the 
     individual identified under subsection (c)(2)(E) of section 
     30104 of title 51, United States Code, as responsible for the 
     James Webb Space Telescope determine that the development 
     cost of the program is likely to exceed that limitation, the 
     individual shall immediately notify the Administrator and the 
     increase shall be treated as if it meets the 30 percent 
     threshold described in subsection (f) of section 30104:  
     Provided further, That, of the amounts provided, $495,000,000 
     is for an orbiter and a lander to meet the science goals for 
     the Jupiter Europa mission as outlined in the most recent 
     planetary science decadal survey:  Provided further, That the 
     National Aeronautics and Space Administration shall use the 
     Space Launch System as the launch vehicles for the Jupiter 
     Europa mission, plan for an orbiter launch no later than 2022 
     and a lander launch no later than 2024, and include in the 
     fiscal year 2019 budget the 5-year funding profile necessary 
     to achieve these goals.

                              aeronautics

       For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the 
     conduct and support of aeronautics research and development 
     activities, including research, development, operations, 
     support, and services; maintenance and repair, facility 
     planning and design; space flight, spacecraft control, and 
     communications activities; program management; personnel and 
     related costs, including uniforms or allowances therefor, as 
     authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United 
     States Code; travel expenses; purchase and hire of passenger 
     motor vehicles; and purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, 
     and operation of mission and administrative aircraft, 
     $660,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019.

                            space technology

       For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the 
     conduct and support of space technology research and 
     development activities, including research, development, 
     operations, support, and services; maintenance and repair, 
     facility planning and design; space flight, spacecraft 
     control, and communications activities; program management; 
     personnel and related costs, including uniforms or allowances 
     therefor, as authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, 
     United States Code; travel expenses; purchase and hire of 
     passenger motor vehicles; and purchase, lease, charter, 
     maintenance, and operation of mission and administrative 
     aircraft, $686,500,000, to remain available until September 
     30, 2019.

                              exploration

       For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the 
     conduct and support of exploration research and development 
     activities, including research, development, operations, 
     support, and services; maintenance and repair, facility 
     planning and design; space flight, spacecraft control, and 
     communications activities; program management; personnel and 
     related costs, including uniforms or allowances therefor, as 
     authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United 
     States Code; travel expenses; purchase and hire of passenger 
     motor vehicles; and purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, 
     and operation of mission and administrative aircraft, 
     $4,550,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019: 
      Provided, That not less than $1,350,000,000 shall be for the 
     Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle:  Provided further, That not 
     less than $2,150,000,000 shall be for the Space Launch System 
     (SLS) launch vehicle, which shall have a lift capability not 
     less than 130 metric tons and which shall have core elements 
     and an Exploration Upper Stage developed simultaneously:  
     Provided further, That of the amounts provided for SLS, not 
     less than $300,000,000 shall be for Exploration Upper Stage 
     development:  Provided further, That $600,000,000 shall be 
     for exploration ground systems:  Provided further, That the 
     National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) shall 
     provide to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate, concurrent with the annual 
     budget submission, a 5-year budget profile for an integrated 
     budget that includes the Space Launch System, the Orion 
     Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle, and associated ground systems, 
     that will meet the Exploration Mission 2 (EM-2) management 
     agreement launch date of no later than 2021 at a success 
     level equal to the Agency Baseline Commitment for EM-2 of the 
     Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle:  Provided further, That 
     $450,000,000 shall be for exploration research and 
     development.

                            space operations

       For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the 
     conduct and support of space operations research and 
     development activities, including research, development, 
     operations, support and services; space flight, spacecraft 
     control and communications activities, including operations, 
     production, and services; maintenance and repair, facility 
     planning and design; program management; personnel and 
     related costs, including uniforms or allowances therefor, as 
     authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United 
     States Code; travel expenses; purchase and hire of passenger 
     motor vehicles; and purchase, lease, charter, maintenance and 
     operation of mission and administrative aircraft, 
     $4,676,634,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019.

                               education

       For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the 
     conduct and support of aerospace and aeronautical education 
     research and

[[Page H6884]]

     development activities, including research, development, 
     operations, support, and services; program management; 
     personnel and related costs, including uniforms or allowances 
     therefor, as authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, 
     United States Code; travel expenses; purchase and hire of 
     passenger motor vehicles; and purchase, lease, charter, 
     maintenance, and operation of mission and administrative 
     aircraft, $90,000,000, to remain available until September 
     30, 2019, of which $18,000,000 shall be for the Experimental 
     Program to Stimulate Competitive Research and $40,000,000 
     shall be for the National Space Grant College and Fellowship 
     Program.

                 safety, security and mission services

       For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the 
     conduct and support of science, aeronautics, space 
     technology, exploration, space operations and education 
     research and development activities, including research, 
     development, operations, support, and services; maintenance 
     and repair, facility planning and design; space flight, 
     spacecraft control, and communications activities; program 
     management; personnel and related costs, including uniforms 
     or allowances therefor, as authorized by sections 5901 and 
     5902 of title 5, United States Code; travel expenses; 
     purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; not to exceed 
     $63,000 for official reception and representation expenses; 
     and purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of 
     mission and administrative aircraft, $2,826,200,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2019.

       construction and environmental compliance and restoration

       For necessary expenses for construction of facilities 
     including repair, rehabilitation, revitalization, and 
     modification of facilities, construction of new facilities 
     and additions to existing facilities, facility planning and 
     design, and restoration, and acquisition or condemnation of 
     real property, as authorized by law, and environmental 
     compliance and restoration, $486,100,000, to remain available 
     until September 30, 2023:  Provided, That proceeds from 
     leases deposited into this account shall be available for a 
     period of 5 years to the extent and in amounts as provided in 
     annual appropriations Acts:  Provided further, That such 
     proceeds referred to in the preceding proviso shall be 
     available for obligation for fiscal year 2018 in an amount 
     not to exceed $9,470,300:  Provided further, That each annual 
     budget request shall include an annual estimate of gross 
     receipts and collections and proposed use of all funds 
     collected pursuant to section 20145 of title 51, United 
     States Code.

                      office of inspector general

       For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
     in carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
     $37,900,000, of which $500,000 shall remain available until 
     September 30, 2019.

                       administrative provisions

                     (including transfers of funds)

       Funds for any announced prize otherwise authorized shall 
     remain available, without fiscal year limitation, until a 
     prize is claimed or the offer is withdrawn.
       Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made available 
     for the current fiscal year for the National Aeronautics and 
     Space Administration in this Act may be transferred between 
     such appropriations, but no such appropriation, except as 
     otherwise specifically provided, shall be increased by more 
     than 10 percent by any such transfers, except that 
     ``Construction and Environmental Compliance and Restoration'' 
     may be increased up to 20 percent by such transfers. Balances 
     so transferred shall be merged with and available for the 
     same purposes and the same time period as the appropriations 
     to which transferred. Any transfer pursuant to this provision 
     shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 
     505 of this Act and shall not be available for obligation 
     except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that 
     section.
       The spending plan required by this Act shall be provided by 
     NASA at the theme, program, project and activity level. The 
     spending plan, as well as any subsequent change of an amount 
     established in that spending plan that meets the notification 
     requirements of section 505 of this Act, shall be treated as 
     a reprogramming under section 505 of this Act and shall not 
     be available for obligation or expenditure except in 
     compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.

                      National Science Foundation

                    research and related activities

       For necessary expenses in carrying out the National Science 
     Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1861 et seq.), and Public 
     Law 86-209 (42 U.S.C. 1880 et seq.); services as authorized 
     by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code; maintenance 
     and operation of aircraft and purchase of flight services for 
     research support; acquisition of aircraft; and authorized 
     travel; $6,033,645,000, to remain available until September 
     30, 2019, of which not to exceed $544,000,000 shall remain 
     available until expended for polar research and operations 
     support, and for reimbursement to other Federal agencies for 
     operational and science support and logistical and other 
     related activities for the United States Antarctic program:  
     Provided, That receipts for scientific support services and 
     materials furnished by the National Research Centers and 
     other National Science Foundation supported research 
     facilities may be credited to this appropriation.

          major research equipment and facilities construction

       For necessary expenses for the acquisition, construction, 
     commissioning, and upgrading of major research equipment, 
     facilities, and other such capital assets pursuant to the 
     National Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1861 et 
     seq.), including authorized travel, $77,800,000, to remain 
     available until expended.

                     education and human resources

       For necessary expenses in carrying out science, mathematics 
     and engineering education and human resources programs and 
     activities pursuant to the National Science Foundation Act of 
     1950 (42 U.S.C. 1861 et seq.), including services as 
     authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, 
     authorized travel, and rental of conference rooms in the 
     District of Columbia, $880,000,000, to remain available until 
     September 30, 2019.

                 agency operations and award management

       For agency operations and award management necessary in 
     carrying out the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42 
     U.S.C. 1861 et seq.); services authorized by section 3109 of 
     title 5, United States Code; hire of passenger motor 
     vehicles; uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 
     sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; rental 
     of conference rooms in the District of Columbia; and 
     reimbursement of the Department of Homeland Security for 
     security guard services; $328,510,000:  Provided, That not to 
     exceed $8,280 is for official reception and representation 
     expenses:  Provided further, That contracts may be entered 
     into under this heading in fiscal year 2018 for maintenance 
     and operation of facilities and for other services to be 
     provided during the next fiscal year.

                  office of the national science board

       For necessary expenses (including payment of salaries, 
     authorized travel, hire of passenger motor vehicles, the 
     rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia, and 
     the employment of experts and consultants under section 3109 
     of title 5, United States Code) involved in carrying out 
     section 4 of the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42 
     U.S.C. 1863) and Public Law 86-209 (42 U.S.C. 1880 et seq.), 
     $4,370,000:  Provided, That not to exceed $2,500 shall be 
     available for official reception and representation expenses.

                      office of inspector general

       For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
     as authorized by the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
     $15,200,000, of which $400,000 shall remain available until 
     September 30, 2019.

                       administrative provisions

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made available 
     for the current fiscal year for the National Science 
     Foundation in this Act may be transferred between such 
     appropriations, but no such appropriation shall be increased 
     by more than 15 percent by any such transfers. Any transfer 
     pursuant to this paragraph shall be treated as a 
     reprogramming of funds under section 505 of this Act and 
     shall not be available for obligation except in compliance 
     with the procedures set forth in that section.
       The Director of the National Science Foundation shall 
     notify the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate at least 30 days in advance of 
     the acquisition or disposal of any capital asset (including 
     land, structures, and equipment) not specifically provided 
     for in this Act or any other law appropriating funds for the 
     National Science Foundation.
       This title may be cited as the ``Science Appropriations 
     Act, 2018''.

                                TITLE IV

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                       Commission on Civil Rights

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Commission on Civil Rights, 
     including hire of passenger motor vehicles, $9,183,000:  
     Provided, That none of the funds appropriated in this 
     paragraph may be used to employ any individuals under 
     Schedule C of subpart C of part 213 of title 5 of the Code of 
     Federal Regulations exclusive of one special assistant for 
     each Commissioner:  Provided further, That none of the funds 
     appropriated in this paragraph shall be used to reimburse 
     Commissioners for more than 75 billable days, with the 
     exception of the chairperson, who is permitted 125 billable 
     days:  Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated 
     in this paragraph shall be used for any activity or expense 
     that is not explicitly authorized by section 3 of the Civil 
     Rights Commission Act of 1983 (42 U.S.C. 1975a).

                Equal Employment Opportunity Commission

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Equal Employment Opportunity 
     Commission as authorized by title VII of the Civil Rights Act 
     of 1964, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, 
     the Equal Pay Act of 1963, the Americans with Disabilities 
     Act of 1990, section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, 
     the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Genetic Information 
     Nondiscrimination Act (GINA) of 2008 (Public Law 110-233), 
     the ADA Amendments Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-325), and the 
     Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-2), 
     including services as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, 
     United States Code; hire of passenger motor vehicles as 
     authorized by section 1343(b) of title 31, United States 
     Code; nonmonetary awards to private citizens; and up to 
     $29,500,000 for payments to State and local enforcement 
     agencies for authorized services to the Commission, 
     $363,807,000:  Provided, That the Commission is authorized to 
     make available for official reception and representation 
     expenses not to exceed $2,250 from available funds:  Provided 
     further, That the Chair is authorized to accept and use any 
     gift or donation to carry out the work of the Commission.

[[Page H6885]]

  


                     International Trade Commission

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the International Trade 
     Commission, including hire of passenger motor vehicles and 
     services as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United 
     States Code, and not to exceed $2,250 for official reception 
     and representation expenses, $92,500,000, to remain available 
     until expended.

                       Legal Services Corporation

               payment to the legal services corporation

       For payment to the Legal Services Corporation to carry out 
     the purposes of the Legal Services Corporation Act of 1974, 
     $300,000,000, of which $267,000,000 is for basic field 
     programs and required independent audits; $5,000,000 is for 
     the Office of Inspector General, of which such amounts as may 
     be necessary may be used to conduct additional audits of 
     recipients; $19,000,000 is for management and grants 
     oversight; $4,000,000 is for client self-help and information 
     technology; $4,000,000 is for a Pro Bono Innovation Fund; and 
     $1,000,000 is for loan repayment assistance:  Provided, That 
     the Legal Services Corporation may continue to provide 
     locality pay to officers and employees at a rate no greater 
     than that provided by the Federal Government to Washington, 
     DC-based employees as authorized by section 5304 of title 5, 
     United States Code, notwithstanding section 1005(d) of the 
     Legal Services Corporation Act (42 U.S.C. 2996(d)):  Provided 
     further, That the authorities provided in section 205 of this 
     Act shall be applicable to the Legal Services Corporation:  
     Provided further, That, for the purposes of section 505 of 
     this Act, the Legal Services Corporation shall be considered 
     an agency of the United States Government.

          administrative provision--legal services corporation

       None of the funds appropriated in this Act to the Legal 
     Services Corporation shall be expended for any purpose 
     prohibited or limited by, or contrary to any of the 
     provisions of, sections 501, 502, 503, 504, 505, and 506 of 
     Public Law 105-119, and all funds appropriated in this Act to 
     the Legal Services Corporation shall be subject to the same 
     terms and conditions set forth in such sections, except that 
     all references in sections 502 and 503 to 1997 and 1998 shall 
     be deemed to refer instead to 2017 and 2018, respectively.

                        Marine Mammal Commission

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Marine Mammal Commission as 
     authorized by title II of the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 
     1972 (16 U.S.C. 1361 et seq.), $3,431,000.

            Office of the United States Trade Representative

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Office of the United States 
     Trade Representative, including the hire of passenger motor 
     vehicles and the employment of experts and consultants as 
     authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, 
     $53,000,000, of which $1,000,000 shall remain available until 
     expended:  Provided, That of the total amount made available 
     under this heading, not to exceed $124,000 shall be available 
     for official reception and representation expenses.

                      trade enforcement trust fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For activities of the United States Trade Representative 
     authorized by section 611 of the Trade Facilitation and Trade 
     Enforcement Act of 2015 (19 U.S.C. 4405), including 
     transfers, $15,000,000, to be derived from the Trade 
     Enforcement Trust Fund: Provided, That any transfer pursuant 
     to subsection (d)(1) of such section shall be treated as a 
     reprogramming under section 505 of this Act.

                        State Justice Institute

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the State Justice Institute, as 
     authorized by the State Justice Institute Act of 1984 (42 
     U.S.C. 10701 et seq.) $5,111,000, of which $500,000 shall 
     remain available until September 30, 2019:  Provided, That 
     not to exceed $2,250 shall be available for official 
     reception and representation expenses:  Provided further, 
     That, for the purposes of section 505 of this Act, the State 
     Justice Institute shall be considered an agency of the United 
     States Government.

                                TITLE V

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                        (including rescissions)

                     (including transfers of funds)

       Sec. 501.  No part of any appropriation contained in this 
     Act shall be used for publicity or propaganda purposes not 
     authorized by the Congress.
       Sec. 502.  No part of any appropriation contained in this 
     Act shall remain available for obligation beyond the current 
     fiscal year unless expressly so provided herein.
       Sec. 503.  The expenditure of any appropriation under this 
     Act for any consulting service through procurement contract, 
     pursuant to section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, 
     shall be limited to those contracts where such expenditures 
     are a matter of public record and available for public 
     inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing 
     law, or under existing Executive order issued pursuant to 
     existing law.
       Sec. 504.  If any provision of this Act or the application 
     of such provision to any person or circumstances shall be 
     held invalid, the remainder of the Act and the application of 
     each provision to persons or circumstances other than those 
     as to which it is held invalid shall not be affected thereby.
       Sec. 505.  None of the funds provided under this Act, or 
     provided under previous appropriations Acts to the agencies 
     funded by this Act that remain available for obligation or 
     expenditure in fiscal year 2018, or provided from any 
     accounts in the Treasury of the United States derived by the 
     collection of fees available to the agencies funded by this 
     Act, shall be available for obligation or expenditure through 
     a reprogramming of funds that: (1) creates or initiates a new 
     program, project or activity; (2) eliminates a program, 
     project or activity; (3) increases funds or personnel by any 
     means for any project or activity for which funds have been 
     denied or restricted; (4) relocates an office or employees; 
     (5) reorganizes or renames offices, programs or activities; 
     (6) contracts out or privatizes any functions or activities 
     presently performed by Federal employees; (7) augments 
     existing programs, projects or activities in excess of 
     $500,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less, or reduces by 10 
     percent funding for any program, project or activity, or 
     numbers of personnel by 10 percent; or (8) results from any 
     general savings, including savings from a reduction in 
     personnel, which would result in a change in existing 
     programs, projects or activities as approved by Congress; 
     unless the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations are 
     notified 15 days in advance of such reprogramming of funds.
       Sec. 506. (a) If it has been finally determined by a court 
     or Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a 
     label bearing a ``Made in America'' inscription, or any 
     inscription with the same meaning, to any product sold in or 
     shipped to the United States that is not made in the United 
     States, the person shall be ineligible to receive any 
     contract or subcontract made with funds made available in 
     this Act, pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and 
     ineligibility procedures described in sections 9.400 through 
     9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations.
       (b)(1) To the extent practicable, with respect to 
     authorized purchases of promotional items, funds made 
     available by this Act shall be used to purchase items that 
     are manufactured, produced, or assembled in the United 
     States, its territories or possessions.
       (2) The term ``promotional items'' has the meaning given 
     the term in OMB Circular A-87, Attachment B, Item (1)(f)(3).
       Sec. 507. (a) The Departments of Commerce and Justice, the 
     National Science Foundation, and the National Aeronautics and 
     Space Administration shall provide to the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
     a quarterly report on the status of balances of 
     appropriations at the account level. For unobligated, 
     uncommitted balances and unobligated, committed balances the 
     quarterly reports shall separately identify the amounts 
     attributable to each source year of appropriation from which 
     the balances were derived. For balances that are obligated, 
     but unexpended, the quarterly reports shall separately 
     identify amounts by the year of obligation.
       (b) The report described in subsection (a) shall be 
     submitted within 30 days of the end of each quarter.
       (c) If a department or agency is unable to fulfill any 
     aspect of a reporting requirement described in subsection (a) 
     due to a limitation of a current accounting system, the 
     department or agency shall fulfill such aspect to the maximum 
     extent practicable under such accounting system and shall 
     identify and describe in each quarterly report the extent to 
     which such aspect is not fulfilled.
       Sec. 508.  Any costs incurred by a department or agency 
     funded under this Act resulting from, or to prevent, 
     personnel actions taken in response to funding reductions 
     included in this Act shall be absorbed within the total 
     budgetary resources available to such department or agency:  
     Provided, That the authority to transfer funds between 
     appropriations accounts as may be necessary to carry out this 
     section is provided in addition to authorities included 
     elsewhere in this Act:  Provided further, That use of funds 
     to carry out this section shall be treated as a reprogramming 
     of funds under section 505 of this Act and shall not be 
     available for obligation or expenditure except in compliance 
     with the procedures set forth in that section:  Provided 
     further, That for the Department of Commerce, this section 
     shall also apply to actions taken for the care and protection 
     of loan collateral or grant property.
       Sec. 509.  None of the funds provided by this Act shall be 
     available to promote the sale or export of tobacco or tobacco 
     products, or to seek the reduction or removal by any foreign 
     country of restrictions on the marketing of tobacco or 
     tobacco products, except for restrictions which are not 
     applied equally to all tobacco or tobacco products of the 
     same type.
       Sec. 510.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used to pay the salaries and expenses of personnel of the 
     Department of Justice to obligate more than $4,632,000,000 
     during fiscal year 2018 from the fund established by section 
     1402 of Public Law 98-473 (42 U.S.C. 10601): Provided, That 
     notwithstanding such section 1402(d), of the amounts 
     available from the Fund for obligation, 5 percent shall be 
     available for grants to Indian tribal governments to improve 
     services and justice for victims of crime.
       Sec. 511.  None of the funds made available to the 
     Department of Justice in this Act may be used to discriminate 
     against or denigrate the religious or moral beliefs of 
     students who participate in programs for which financial 
     assistance is provided from those funds, or of the parents or 
     legal guardians of such students.
       Sec. 512.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality 
     of the United States Government, except pursuant to a 
     transfer made by, or transfer authority provided in, this Act 
     or any other appropriations Act.
       Sec. 513.  Any funds provided in this Act used to implement 
     E-Government Initiatives shall be subject to the procedures 
     set forth in section 505 of this Act.

[[Page H6886]]

       Sec. 514. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available under this Act may be used by the Departments 
     of Commerce and Justice, the National Aeronautics and Space 
     Administration, or the National Science Foundation to acquire 
     a high-impact or moderate-impact information system, as 
     defined for security categorization in the National Institute 
     of Standards and Technology's (NIST) Federal Information 
     Processing Standard Publication 199, ``Standards for Security 
     Categorization of Federal Information and Information 
     Systems'' unless the agency has--
       (1) reviewed the supply chain risk for the information 
     systems against criteria developed by NIST and the Federal 
     Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to inform acquisition decisions 
     for high-impact and moderate-impact information systems 
     within the Federal Government;
       (2) reviewed the supply chain risk from the presumptive 
     awardee against available and relevant threat information 
     provided by the FBI and other appropriate agencies; and
       (3) in consultation with the FBI or other appropriate 
     Federal entity, conducted an assessment of any risk of cyber-
     espionage or sabotage associated with the acquisition of such 
     system, including any risk associated with such system being 
     produced, manufactured, or assembled by one or more entities 
     identified by the United States Government as posing a cyber 
     threat, including but not limited to, those that may be 
     owned, directed, or subsidized by the People's Republic of 
     China, the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Democratic People's 
     Republic of Korea, or the Russian Federation.
       (b) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available under this Act may be used to acquire a high-impact 
     or moderate-impact information system reviewed and assessed 
     under subsection (a) unless the head of the assessing entity 
     described in subsection (a) has--
       (1) developed, in consultation with NIST, the FBI, and 
     supply chain risk management experts, a mitigation strategy 
     for any identified risks;
       (2) determined, in consultation with NIST and the FBI, that 
     the acquisition of such system is in the national interest of 
     the United States; and
       (3) reported that determination to the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
     and the agency Inspector General.
       Sec. 515.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
     shall be used in any way whatsoever to support or justify the 
     use of torture by any official or contract employee of the 
     United States Government.
       Sec. 516. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law or 
     treaty, in fiscal year 2018 and each fiscal year thereafter, 
     none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
     under this Act or any other Act may be expended or obligated 
     by a department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
     States to pay administrative expenses or to compensate an 
     officer or employee of the United States in connection with 
     requiring an export license for the export to Canada of 
     components, parts, accessories or attachments for firearms 
     listed in Category I, section 121.1 of title 22, Code of 
     Federal Regulations (International Trafficking in Arms 
     Regulations (ITAR), part 121, as it existed on April 1, 2005) 
     with a total value not exceeding $500 wholesale in any 
     transaction, provided that the conditions of subsection (b) 
     of this section are met by the exporting party for such 
     articles.
       (b) The foregoing exemption from obtaining an export 
     license--
       (1) does not exempt an exporter from filing any Shipper's 
     Export Declaration or notification letter required by law, or 
     from being otherwise eligible under the laws of the United 
     States to possess, ship, transport, or export the articles 
     enumerated in subsection (a); and
       (2) does not permit the export without a license of--
       (A) fully automatic firearms and components and parts for 
     such firearms, other than for end use by the Federal 
     Government, or a Provincial or Municipal Government of 
     Canada;
       (B) barrels, cylinders, receivers (frames) or complete 
     breech mechanisms for any firearm listed in Category I, other 
     than for end use by the Federal Government, or a Provincial 
     or Municipal Government of Canada; or
       (C) articles for export from Canada to another foreign 
     destination.
       (c) In accordance with this section, the District Directors 
     of Customs and postmasters shall permit the permanent or 
     temporary export without a license of any unclassified 
     articles specified in subsection (a) to Canada for end use in 
     Canada or return to the United States, or temporary import of 
     Canadian-origin items from Canada for end use in the United 
     States or return to Canada for a Canadian citizen.
       (d) The President may require export licenses under this 
     section on a temporary basis if the President determines, 
     upon publication first in the Federal Register, that the 
     Government of Canada has implemented or maintained inadequate 
     import controls for the articles specified in subsection (a), 
     such that a significant diversion of such articles has and 
     continues to take place for use in international terrorism or 
     in the escalation of a conflict in another nation. The 
     President shall terminate the requirements of a license when 
     reasons for the temporary requirements have ceased.
       Sec. 517.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in 
     fiscal year 2018 and each fiscal year thereafter, no 
     department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States 
     receiving appropriated funds under this Act or any other Act 
     shall obligate or expend in any way such funds to pay 
     administrative expenses or the compensation of any officer or 
     employee of the United States to deny any application 
     submitted pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 2778(b)(1)(B) and qualified 
     pursuant to 27 CFR section 478.112 or .113, for a permit to 
     import United States origin ``curios or relics'' firearms, 
     parts, or ammunition.
       Sec. 518.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used to include in any new bilateral or multilateral trade 
     agreement the text of--
       (1) paragraph 2 of article 16.7 of the United States-
     Singapore Free Trade Agreement;
       (2) paragraph 4 of article 17.9 of the United States-
     Australia Free Trade Agreement; or
       (3) paragraph 4 of article 15.9 of the United States-
     Morocco Free Trade Agreement.
       Sec. 519.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used to authorize or issue a national security letter in 
     contravention of any of the following laws authorizing the 
     Federal Bureau of Investigation to issue national security 
     letters: The Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978; The 
     Electronic Communications Privacy Act of 1986; The Fair 
     Credit Reporting Act; The National Security Act of 1947; USA 
     PATRIOT Act; USA FREEDOM Act of 2015; and the laws amended by 
     these Acts.
       Sec. 520.  If at any time during any quarter, the program 
     manager of a project within the jurisdiction of the 
     Departments of Commerce or Justice, the National Aeronautics 
     and Space Administration, or the National Science Foundation 
     totaling more than $75,000,000 has reasonable cause to 
     believe that the total program cost has increased by 10 
     percent or more, the program manager shall immediately inform 
     the respective Secretary, Administrator, or Director. The 
     Secretary, Administrator, or Director shall notify the House 
     and Senate Committees on Appropriations within 30 days in 
     writing of such increase, and shall include in such notice: 
     the date on which such determination was made; a statement of 
     the reasons for such increases; the action taken and proposed 
     to be taken to control future cost growth of the project; 
     changes made in the performance or schedule milestones and 
     the degree to which such changes have contributed to the 
     increase in total program costs or procurement costs; new 
     estimates of the total project or procurement costs; and a 
     statement validating that the project's management structure 
     is adequate to control total project or procurement costs.
       Sec. 521.  Funds appropriated by this Act, or made 
     available by the transfer of funds in this Act, for 
     intelligence or intelligence related activities are deemed to 
     be specifically authorized by the Congress for purposes of 
     section 504 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
     3094) during fiscal year 2018 until the enactment of the 
     Intelligence Authorization Act for fiscal year 2018.
       Sec. 522.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available by this Act may be used to enter into a contract in 
     an amount greater than $5,000,000 or to award a grant in 
     excess of such amount unless the prospective contractor or 
     grantee certifies in writing to the agency awarding the 
     contract or grant that, to the best of its knowledge and 
     belief, the contractor or grantee has filed all Federal tax 
     returns required during the three years preceding the 
     certification, has not been convicted of a criminal offense 
     under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and has not, more 
     than 90 days prior to certification, been notified of any 
     unpaid Federal tax assessment for which the liability remains 
     unsatisfied, unless the assessment is the subject of an 
     installment agreement or offer in compromise that has been 
     approved by the Internal Revenue Service and is not in 
     default, or the assessment is the subject of a non-frivolous 
     administrative or judicial proceeding.

                             (rescissions)

       Sec. 523. (a) Of the unobligated balances from prior year 
     appropriations available to the Department of Commerce, the 
     following funds are hereby rescinded, not later than 
     September 30, 2018, from the following accounts in the 
     specified amounts--
       (1) ``Economic Development Administration, Economic 
     Development Assistance Programs'', $47,000,000; and
       (2) ``National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 
     Operations, Research, and Facilities'', $20,000,000.
       (b) Of the unobligated balances available to the Department 
     of Justice, the following funds are hereby rescinded, not 
     later than September 30, 2018, from the following accounts in 
     the specified amounts--
       (1) ``Working Capital Fund'', $409,834,000;
       (2) ``Federal Bureau of Investigation, Salaries and 
     Expenses'', $195,000,000 from fees collected to defray 
     expenses for the automation of fingerprint identification and 
     criminal justice information services and associated costs;
       (3) ``State and Local Law Enforcement Activities, Office on 
     Violence Against Women, Violence Against Women Prevention and 
     Prosecution Programs'', $17,500,000;
       (4) ``State and Local Law Enforcement Activities, Office of 
     Justice Programs'', $60,000,000;
       (5) ``State and Local Law Enforcement Activities, Community 
     Oriented Policing Services'', $17,500,000;
       (6) ``Legal Activities, Assets Forfeiture Fund'', 
     $304,000,000 is permanently rescinded; and
       (7) ``Federal Bureau of Investigation, Salaries and 
     Expenses'', $53,365,000.
       (c) The Departments of Commerce and Justice shall submit to 
     the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate a report no later than 
     September 1, 2018, specifying the amount of each rescission 
     made pursuant to subsections (a) and (b), and the Department 
     of Justice shall ensure that sufficient balances are 
     available in the ``Working Capital Fund'' to rescind the 
     amount specified in subsection (b) and shall transfer 
     unobligated balances from discretionary appropriations 
     (except from ``Federal Bureau of Investigation, Salaries and 
     Expenses'', ``Fees and Expenses of Witnesses'', ``Public 
     Safety Officer Benefits'', and amounts that were designated 
     by the Congress

[[Page H6887]]

     as an emergency or disaster relief requirement pursuant to a 
     concurrent resolution on the budget or section 251(b)(2) of 
     the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
     1985) made available in this Act to the Department into the 
     ``Working Capital Fund'' if necessary to meet the amount 
     specified in subsection (b) and this transfer authority is in 
     addition to any other transfer authority contained in this 
     Act.
       Sec. 524.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used to purchase first class or premium airline travel in 
     contravention of sections 301-10.122 through 301-10.124 of 
     title 41 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
       Sec. 525.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used to send or otherwise pay for the attendance of more 
     than 50 employees from a Federal department or agency, who 
     are stationed in the United States, at any single conference 
     occurring outside the United States unless such conference is 
     a law enforcement training or operational conference for law 
     enforcement personnel and the majority of Federal employees 
     in attendance are law enforcement personnel stationed outside 
     the United States.
       Sec. 526.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available in this or any other Act may be used to transfer, 
     release, or assist in the transfer or release to or within 
     the United States, its territories, or possessions Khalid 
     Sheikh Mohammed or any other detainee who--
       (1) is not a United States citizen or a member of the Armed 
     Forces of the United States; and
       (2) is or was held on or after June 24, 2009, at the United 
     States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, by the Department 
     of Defense.
       Sec. 527. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available in this or any other Act may be used to 
     construct, acquire, or modify any facility in the United 
     States, its territories, or possessions to house any 
     individual described in subsection (c) for the purposes of 
     detention or imprisonment in the custody or under the 
     effective control of the Department of Defense.
       (b) The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply to 
     any modification of facilities at United States Naval 
     Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
       (c) An individual described in this subsection is any 
     individual who, as of June 24, 2009, is located at United 
     States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and who--
       (1) is not a citizen of the United States or a member of 
     the Armed Forces of the United States; and
       (2) is--
       (A) in the custody or under the effective control of the 
     Department of Defense; or
       (B) otherwise under detention at United States Naval 
     Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
       Sec. 528.  The Director of the Office of Management and 
     Budget shall instruct any department, agency, or 
     instrumentality of the United States receiving funds 
     appropriated under this Act to track undisbursed balances in 
     expired grant accounts and include in its annual performance 
     plan and performance and accountability reports the 
     following:
       (1) Details on future action the department, agency, or 
     instrumentality will take to resolve undisbursed balances in 
     expired grant accounts.
       (2) The method that the department, agency, or 
     instrumentality uses to track undisbursed balances in expired 
     grant accounts.
       (3) Identification of undisbursed balances in expired grant 
     accounts that may be returned to the Treasury of the United 
     States.
       (4) In the preceding 3 fiscal years, details on the total 
     number of expired grant accounts with undisbursed balances 
     (on the first day of each fiscal year) for the department, 
     agency, or instrumentality and the total finances that have 
     not been obligated to a specific project remaining in the 
     accounts.
       Sec. 529. (a) None of the funds made available by this Act 
     may be used for the National Aeronautics and Space 
     Administration (NASA) or the Office of Science and Technology 
     Policy (OSTP) to develop, design, plan, promulgate, 
     implement, or execute a bilateral policy, program, order, or 
     contract of any kind to participate, collaborate, or 
     coordinate bilaterally in any way with China or any Chinese-
     owned company unless such activities are specifically 
     authorized by a law enacted after the date of enactment of 
     this Act.
       (b) None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
     used to effectuate the hosting of official Chinese visitors 
     at facilities belonging to or utilized by NASA.
       (c) The limitations described in subsections (a) and (b) 
     shall not apply to activities which NASA or OSTP, after 
     consultation with the Federal Bureau of Investigation, have 
     certified--
       (1) pose no risk of resulting in the transfer of 
     technology, data, or other information with national security 
     or economic security implications to China or a Chinese-owned 
     company; and
       (2) will not involve knowing interactions with officials 
     who have been determined by the United States to have direct 
     involvement with violations of human rights.
       (d) Any certification made under subsection (c) shall be 
     submitted to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate, and the Federal Bureau of 
     Investigation, no later than 30 days prior to the activity in 
     question and shall include a description of the purpose of 
     the activity, its agenda, its major participants, and its 
     location and timing.
       Sec. 530.  None of the funds made available by this or any 
     other Act, for fiscal year 2018 and each fiscal year 
     thereafter, may be used to pay the salaries or expenses of 
     personnel to deny, or fail to act on, an application for the 
     importation of any model of shotgun if--
       (1) all other requirements of law with respect to the 
     proposed importation are met; and
       (2) no application for the importation of such model of 
     shotgun, in the same configuration, had been denied by the 
     Attorney General prior to January 1, 2011, on the basis that 
     the shotgun was not particularly suitable for or readily 
     adaptable to sporting purposes.
       Sec. 531. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act 
     may be used to maintain or establish a computer network 
     unless such network blocks the viewing, downloading, and 
     exchanging of pornography.
       (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
     necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law 
     enforcement agency or any other entity carrying out criminal 
     investigations, prosecution, adjudication, or other law 
     enforcement- or victim assistance-related activity.
       Sec. 532.  The Departments of Commerce and Justice, the 
     National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the National 
     Science Foundation, the Commission on Civil Rights, the Equal 
     Employment Opportunity Commission, the International Trade 
     Commission, the Legal Services Corporation, the Marine Mammal 
     Commission, the Offices of Science and Technology Policy and 
     the United States Trade Representative, and the State Justice 
     Institute shall submit spending plans, signed by the 
     respective department or agency head, to the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
     within 45 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
       Sec. 533.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be obligated or expended to implement the Arms Trade Treaty 
     until the Senate approves a resolution of ratification for 
     the Treaty.
       Sec. 534.  The Department of Commerce, the National 
     Aeronautics and Space Administration, and the National 
     Science Foundation shall provide a quarterly report to the 
     Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
     and the Senate on any official travel to China by any 
     employee of such Department or agency, including the purpose 
     of such travel.
       Sec. 535.  Of the amounts made available by this Act, not 
     less than 10 percent of each total amount provided, 
     respectively, for Public Works grants authorized by the 
     Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965 and grants 
     authorized by section 27 of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology 
     Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3722) shall be allocated 
     for assistance in persistent poverty counties:  Provided, 
     That for purposes of this section, the term ``persistent 
     poverty counties'' means any county that has had 20 percent 
     or more of its population living in poverty over the past 30 
     years, as measured by the 1990 and 2000 decennial censuses 
     and the most recent Small Area Income and Poverty Estimates.
       Sec. 536.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to approve the registration or renewal of, or 
     maintain the registration of, a mark, trade name, or 
     commercial name, under the Act entitled ``An Act to provide 
     for the registration and protection of trademarks used in 
     commerce, to carry out the provisions of certain 
     international conventions, and for other purposes'', approved 
     July 6, 1946 (commonly referred to as the ``Trademark Act of 
     1946''; 15 U.S.C. 1051 et seq.), including the receipt or 
     acceptance of post-registration affidavits or declarations, 
     where such mark, trade name, or commercial name is the same 
     or substantially similar to a mark, trade name, or commercial 
     name that was used in connection with a business or assets 
     that were confiscated, as that term is defined in section 
     4(4) of the Cuban Liberty and Democratic Solidarity 
     (LIBERTAD) Act of 1996 (22 U.S.C. 6023(4)), unless the 
     original owner of the mark, trade name, or commercial name, 
     or the bona-fide successor-in-interest has expressly 
     consented.
       Sec. 537.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to require a person licensed under section 923 of 
     title 18, United States Code, to report information to the 
     Department of Justice regarding the sale of multiple rifles 
     or shotguns to the same person.
       Sec. 538. (a) A State may bring a civil action against the 
     United States in an appropriate United States district court 
     for such declaratory and injunctive relief (including 
     preliminary injunctive relief) as may be necessary to restore 
     the sovereignty reserved to the States by the Constitution. 
     It shall be duty of the courts of the United States to 
     advance on the docket and to expedite to the greatest 
     possible extent the disposition of any such action.
       (b) This section shall take effect on the date of enactment 
     of this Act and continue in effect through all fiscal years 
     thereafter.
       Sec. 539.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to relocate the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms 
     and Explosives (ATF) Canine Training Center or the ATF 
     National Canine Division.
       Sec. 540.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to enter into a civil settlement agreement on behalf 
     of the United States that includes a term requiring that any 
     donation be made to any non-party by any party-defendant to 
     such agreement.
       Sec. 541.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to implement or enforce the designation of any area 
     of the Chesapeake Bay watershed as critical habitat for the 
     Atlantic Sturgeon pursuant to the proposed rule published 
     June 3, 2016 (81 Fed. Reg. 35701).
       Sec. 542.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for 
     the ``collection of information'', as defined in the 
     Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. Sec.  3502(3)(A)), from 
     employers relating to employees' earnings and hours worked, 
     as set forth in and designated as Component 2 by the notice 
     published by the Commission on July 14, 2016, in the Federal 
     Register (81 Fed. Reg. 45479), or for any final ``collection 
     of information'' related to such earnings and hours worked 
     and to such notice.

[[Page H6888]]

  


                           references to act

       Sec. 543.  Except as expressly provided otherwise, any 
     reference to ``this Act'' contained in this division shall be 
     treated as referring only to the provisions of this division.

                          reference to report

       Sec. 544.  Any reference to a ``report accompanying this 
     Act'' contained in this division shall be treated as a 
     reference to House Report 115-231. The effect of such Report 
     shall be limited to this division and shall apply for 
     purposes of determining the allocation of funds provided by, 
     and the implementation of, this division.

                       spending reduction account

       Sec. 545.  $0.
       This division may be cited as the ``Commerce, Justice, 
     Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2018''.

 DIVISION D--FINANCIAL SERVICES AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIATIONS 
                               ACT, 2018

        The following sums are appropriated, out of any money in 
     the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year 
     ending September 30, 2018, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                          Departmental Offices

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Departmental Offices 
     including operation and maintenance of the Treasury Building 
     and Freedman's Bank Building; hire of passenger motor 
     vehicles; maintenance, repairs, and improvements of, and 
     purchase of commercial insurance policies for, real 
     properties leased or owned overseas, when necessary for the 
     performance of official business; executive direction program 
     activities; international affairs and economic policy 
     activities; domestic finance and tax policy activities, 
     including technical assistance to Puerto Rico; and Treasury-
     wide management policies and programs activities, 
     $201,751,000:  Provided, That of the amount appropriated 
     under this heading--
       (1) not to exceed $350,000 is for official reception and 
     representation expenses;
       (2) not to exceed $258,000 is for unforeseen emergencies of 
     a confidential nature to be allocated and expended under the 
     direction of the Secretary of the Treasury and to be 
     accounted for solely on the Secretary's certificate; and
       (3) not to exceed $24,000,000 shall remain available until 
     September 30, 2019, for--
       (A) the Treasury-wide Financial Statement Audit and 
     Internal Control Program;
       (B) information technology modernization requirements;
       (C) the audit, oversight, and administration of the Gulf 
     Coast Restoration Trust Fund;
       (D) the development and implementation of programs within 
     the Office of Critical Infrastructure Protection and 
     Compliance Policy, including entering into cooperative 
     agreements;
       (E) operations and maintenance of facilities; and
       (F) international operations.

             office of terrorism and financial intelligence

                         salaries and expenses

       For the necessary expenses of the Office of Terrorism and 
     Financial Intelligence to safeguard the financial system 
     against illicit use and to combat rogue nations, terrorist 
     facilitators, weapons of mass destruction proliferators, 
     money launderers, drug kingpins, and other national security 
     threats, $123,000,000:  Provided, That of the amount 
     appropriated under this heading: (1) up to $28,000,000 may be 
     transferred to the Departmental Offices Salaries and Expenses 
     appropriation and shall be available for administrative 
     support to the Office of Terrorism and Financial 
     Intelligence; and (2) up to $5,000,000 shall remain available 
     until September 30, 2019.

                   cybersecurity enhancement account

       For salaries and expenses for enhanced cybersecurity for 
     systems operated by the Department of the Treasury, 
     $27,264,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020: 
     Provided, That such funds shall supplement and not supplant 
     any other amounts made available to the Treasury offices and 
     bureaus for cybersecurity:  Provided further, That the Chief 
     Information Officer of the individual offices and bureaus 
     shall submit a spend plan for each investment to the Treasury 
     Chief Information Officer for approval:  Provided further, 
     That the submitted spend plan shall be reviewed and approved 
     by the Treasury Chief Information Officer prior to the 
     obligation of funds under this heading:  Provided further, 
     That of the total amount made available under this heading 
     $1,000,000 shall be available for administrative expenses for 
     the Treasury Chief Information Officer to provide oversight 
     of the investments made under this heading:  Provided 
     further, That such funds shall supplement and not supplant 
     any other amounts made available to the Treasury Chief 
     Information Officer.

        department-wide systems and capital investments programs

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For development and acquisition of automatic data 
     processing equipment, software, and services and for repairs 
     and renovations to buildings owned by the Department of the 
     Treasury, $3,077,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2020:  Provided, That these funds shall be transferred to 
     accounts and in amounts as necessary to satisfy the 
     requirements of the Department's offices, bureaus, and other 
     organizations:  Provided further, That this transfer 
     authority shall be in addition to any other transfer 
     authority provided in this Act:  Provided further, That none 
     of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be used to 
     support or supplement ``Internal Revenue Service, Operations 
     Support'' or ``Internal Revenue Service, Business Systems 
     Modernization''.

                      office of inspector general

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
     in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act 
     of 1978, $34,112,000, including hire of passenger motor 
     vehicles; of which not to exceed $100,000 shall be available 
     for unforeseen emergencies of a confidential nature, to be 
     allocated and expended under the direction of the Inspector 
     General of the Treasury; of which up to $2,800,000 to remain 
     available until September 30, 2019, shall be for audits and 
     investigations conducted pursuant to section 1608 of the 
     Resources and Ecosystems Sustainability, Tourist 
     Opportunities, and Revived Economies of the Gulf Coast States 
     Act of 2012 (33 U.S.C. 1321 note); and of which not to exceed 
     $1,000 shall be available for official reception and 
     representation expenses.

           treasury inspector general for tax administration

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Treasury Inspector General 
     for Tax Administration in carrying out the Inspector General 
     Act of 1978, as amended, including purchase and hire of 
     passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); and services 
     authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be 
     determined by the Inspector General for Tax Administration; 
     $165,113,000, of which $5,000,000 shall remain available 
     until September 30, 2019; of which not to exceed $6,000,000 
     shall be available for official travel expenses; of which not 
     to exceed $500,000 shall be available for unforeseen 
     emergencies of a confidential nature, to be allocated and 
     expended under the direction of the Inspector General for Tax 
     Administration; and of which not to exceed $1,500 shall be 
     available for official reception and representation expenses.

    special inspector general for the troubled asset relief program

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Office of the Special 
     Inspector General in carrying out the provisions of the 
     Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-
     343), $37,044,000.

                  Financial Crimes Enforcement Network

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Financial Crimes Enforcement 
     Network, including hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel 
     and training expenses of non-Federal and foreign government 
     personnel to attend meetings and training concerned with 
     domestic and foreign financial intelligence activities, law 
     enforcement, and financial regulation; services authorized by 
     5 U.S.C. 3109; not to exceed $10,000 for official reception 
     and representation expenses; and for assistance to Federal 
     law enforcement agencies, with or without reimbursement, 
     $115,003,000, of which not to exceed $34,335,000 shall remain 
     available until September 30, 2020.

                        Treasury Forfeiture Fund

                              (rescission)

       Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, 
     $876,000,000 are hereby permanently rescinded not later than 
     September 30, 2018.

                      (including return of funds)

       In addition, of amounts in the Treasury Forfeiture Fund, 
     $38,800,000 from funds paid to the United States Government 
     by BNP Paribas S.A. as part of, or related to, a plea 
     agreement dated June 27, 2014, entered into between the 
     Department of Justice and BNP Paribas S.A., and subject to a 
     consent order entered by the United States District Court for 
     the Southern District of New York on May 1, 2015, in United 
     States v. BNPP, No. 14 Cr. 460 (S.D.N.Y.), are hereby 
     returned to the general fund of the Treasury.

                      Bureau of the Fiscal Service

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of operations of the Bureau of the 
     Fiscal Service, $330,837,000; of which not to exceed 
     $4,210,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020, is 
     for information systems modernization initiatives; and of 
     which $5,000 shall be available for official reception and 
     representation expenses.
       In addition, $165,000, to be derived from the Oil Spill 
     Liability Trust Fund to reimburse administrative and 
     personnel expenses for financial management of the Fund, as 
     authorized by section 1012 of Public Law 101-380.

                Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of carrying out section 1111 of the 
     Homeland Security Act of 2002, including hire of passenger 
     motor vehicles, $111,439,000; of which not to exceed $6,000 
     for official reception and representation expenses; not to 
     exceed $50,000 for cooperative research and development 
     programs for laboratory services; and provision of laboratory 
     assistance to State and local agencies with or without 
     reimbursement:  Provided, That of the amount appropriated 
     under this heading, $5,000,000 shall be for the costs of 
     accelerating the processing of formula and label 
     applications:  Provided further, That of the amount 
     appropriated under this heading, $5,000,000, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2019, shall be for the costs 
     associated with enforcement of the trade practice provisions 
     of the Federal Alcohol Administration Act (27 U.S.C. 201 et 
     seq.).

                           United States Mint

               united states mint public enterprise fund

       Pursuant to section 5136 of title 31, United States Code, 
     the United States Mint is provided funding through the United 
     States Mint Public Enterprise Fund for costs associated with 
     the

[[Page H6889]]

     production of circulating coins, numismatic coins, and 
     protective services, including both operating expenses and 
     capital investments:  Provided, That the aggregate amount of 
     new liabilities and obligations incurred during fiscal year 
     2018 under such section 5136 for circulating coinage and 
     protective service capital investments of the United States 
     Mint shall not exceed $30,000,000.

   Community Development Financial Institutions Fund Program Account

       To carry out the Riegle Community Development and 
     Regulatory Improvement Act of 1994 (subtitle A of title I of 
     Public Law 103-325), including services authorized by section 
     3109 of title 5, United States Code, but at rates for 
     individuals not to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to the 
     rate for EX-3, $190,000,000. Of the amount appropriated under 
     this heading--
       (1) not less than $137,000,000, notwithstanding section 
     108(e) of Public Law 103-325 (12 U.S.C. 4707(e)) with regard 
     to Small and/or Emerging Community Development Financial 
     Institutions Assistance awards, and section 108(d) of Public 
     Law 103-325 (12 U.S.C. 4707(d)) shall not apply with respect 
     to financial assistance in the form of direct loans, is 
     available until September 30, 2019, for financial assistance 
     and technical assistance under subparagraphs (A) and (B) of 
     section 108(a)(1), respectively, of Public Law 103-325 (12 
     U.S.C. 4707(a)(1)(A) and (B)), of which up to $5,896,000 may 
     be used for the cost of direct loans, and of which up to 
     $3,000,000, subsection (d) of section 108 of Public Law 103-
     325 (12 U.S.C. 4707 (d)) shall not apply to the use of such 
     funds, may be available to provide financial assistance, 
     technical assistance, training and outreach to community 
     development financial institutions to expand investments that 
     benefit individuals with disabilities: Provided, That the 
     cost of direct and guaranteed loans, including the cost of 
     modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of 
     the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That 
     these funds are available to subsidize gross obligations for 
     the principal amount of direct loans not to exceed 
     $50,000,000;
       (2) not less than $15,000,000, notwithstanding section 
     108(e) of Public Law 103-325 (12 U.S.C. 4707(e)), is 
     available until September 30, 2019, for financial assistance, 
     technical assistance, training and outreach programs designed 
     to benefit Native American, Native Hawaiian, and Native 
     Alaskan communities and provided primarily through qualified 
     community development lender organizations with experience 
     and expertise in community development banking and lending in 
     Indian country, Native American organizations, tribes and 
     tribal organizations, and other suitable providers;
       (3) not less than $15,000,000 is available until September 
     30, 2019, for the Bank Enterprise Award program;
       (4) up to $23,000,000 is available until September 30, 
     2018, for administrative expenses, including administration 
     of CDFI fund programs and the New Markets Tax Credit Program, 
     of which not less than $1,000,000 is for development of tools 
     to better assess and inform CDFI investment performance, and 
     up to $300,000 is for administrative expenses to carry out 
     the direct loan program; and
       (5) during fiscal year 2018, none of the funds available 
     under this heading are available for the cost, as defined in 
     section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, of 
     commitments to guarantee bonds and notes under section 114A 
     of the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory 
     Improvement Act of 1994 (12 U.S.C. 4713a):  Provided, That 
     commitments to guarantee bonds and notes under such section 
     114A shall not exceed $500,000,000:  Provided further, That 
     such section 114A shall remain in effect until September 30, 
     2018:  Provided further, That of the funds awarded under this 
     heading, not less than 10 percent shall be used for awards 
     that support investments that serve populations living in 
     persistent poverty counties:  Provided further, That for 
     purposes of this section, the term ``persistent poverty 
     counties'' means any county that has had 20 percent or more 
     of its population living in poverty over the past 30 years, 
     as measured by the 1990 and 2000 decennial censuses and the 
     most recent series of 5-year data available from the American 
     Community Survey from the Census Bureau.

                        Internal Revenue Service

                           taxpayer services

       For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service to 
     provide taxpayer services, including pre-filing assistance 
     and education, filing and account services, taxpayer advocacy 
     services, and other services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
     at such rates as may be determined by the Commissioner, 
     $2,315,754,000, of which $8,890,000 shall be for the Tax 
     Counseling for the Elderly Program; of which $12,000,000 
     shall be available for low-income taxpayer clinic grants; of 
     which $15,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2019, shall be available for a Community Volunteer Income Tax 
     Assistance matching grants program for tax return preparation 
     assistance, of which not less than $206,000,000 shall be 
     available for operating expenses of the Taxpayer Advocate 
     Service:  Provided, That of the amounts made available for 
     the Taxpayer Advocate Service, not less than $5,000,000 shall 
     be for identity theft casework.

                              enforcement

       For necessary expenses for tax enforcement activities of 
     the Internal Revenue Service to determine and collect owed 
     taxes, to provide legal and litigation support, to conduct 
     criminal investigations, to enforce criminal statutes related 
     to violations of internal revenue laws and other financial 
     crimes, to purchase and hire passenger motor vehicles (31 
     U.S.C. 1343(b)), and to provide other services as authorized 
     by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be determined by the 
     Commissioner, $4,810,000,000, of which not to exceed 
     $50,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2019, 
     and of which not less than $60,257,000 shall be for the 
     Interagency Crime and Drug Enforcement program.

                           operations support

       For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service to 
     support taxpayer services and enforcement programs, including 
     rent payments; facilities services; printing; postage; 
     physical security; headquarters and other IRS-wide 
     administration activities; research and statistics of income; 
     telecommunications; information technology development, 
     enhancement, operations, maintenance, and security; the hire 
     of passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); the 
     operations of the Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board; 
     and other services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such 
     rates as may be determined by the Commissioner; 
     $3,850,189,000, of which not to exceed $50,000,000 shall 
     remain available until September 30, 2019; of which not to 
     exceed $10,000,000 shall remain available until expended for 
     acquisition of equipment and construction, repair and 
     renovation of facilities; of which not to exceed $1,000,000 
     shall remain available until September 30, 2020, for 
     research; of which not to exceed $20,000 shall be for 
     official reception and representation expenses:  Provided, 
     That not later than 30 days after the end of each quarter, 
     the Internal Revenue Service shall submit a report to the 
     Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
     and the Senate and the Comptroller General of the United 
     States detailing the cost and schedule performance for its 
     major information technology investments, including the 
     purpose and life-cycle stages of the investments; the reasons 
     for any cost and schedule variances; the risks of such 
     investments and strategies the Internal Revenue Service is 
     using to mitigate such risks; and the expected developmental 
     milestones to be achieved and costs to be incurred in the 
     next quarter:  Provided further, That the Internal Revenue 
     Service shall include, in its budget justification for fiscal 
     year 2019, a summary of cost and schedule performance 
     information for its major information technology systems.

                     business systems modernization

       For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service's 
     business systems modernization program, $110,000,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2020, for the capital 
     asset acquisition of information technology systems, 
     including management and related contractual costs of said 
     acquisitions, including related Internal Revenue Service 
     labor costs, and contractual costs associated with operations 
     authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109:  Provided, That not later than 
     30 days after the end of each quarter, the Internal Revenue 
     Service shall submit a report to the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
     and the Comptroller General of the United States detailing 
     the cost and schedule performance for CADE 2 and Return Renew 
     Program information technology investments, including the 
     purposes and life-cycle stages of the investments; the 
     reasons for any cost and schedule variances; the risks of 
     such investments and the strategies the Internal Revenue 
     Service is using to mitigate such risks; and the expected 
     developmental milestones to be achieved and costs to be 
     incurred in the next quarter.

          administrative provisions--internal revenue service

                     (including transfers of funds)

       Sec. 101.  Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation 
     made available in this Act to the Internal Revenue Service 
     may be transferred to any other Internal Revenue Service 
     appropriation upon the advance approval of the Committees on 
     Appropriations.
       Sec. 102.  The Internal Revenue Service shall maintain an 
     employee training program, which shall include the following 
     topics: taxpayers' rights, dealing courteously with 
     taxpayers, cross-cultural relations, ethics, and the 
     impartial application of tax law.
       Sec. 103.  The Internal Revenue Service shall institute and 
     enforce policies and procedures that will safeguard the 
     confidentiality of taxpayer information and protect taxpayers 
     against identity theft.
       Sec. 104.  Funds made available by this or any other Act to 
     the Internal Revenue Service shall be available for improved 
     facilities and increased staffing to provide sufficient and 
     effective 1-800 help line service for taxpayers. The 
     Commissioner shall continue to make improvements to the 
     Internal Revenue Service 1-800 help line service a priority 
     and allocate resources necessary to enhance the response time 
     to taxpayer communications, particularly with regard to 
     victims of tax-related crimes.
       Sec. 105.  None of the funds made available to the Internal 
     Revenue Service by this Act may be used to make a video 
     unless the Service-Wide Video Editorial Board determines in 
     advance that making the video is appropriate, taking into 
     account the cost, topic, tone, and purpose of the video.
       Sec. 106.  The Internal Revenue Service shall issue a 
     notice of confirmation of any address change relating to an 
     employer making employment tax payments, and such notice 
     shall be sent to both the employer's former and new address 
     and an officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service 
     shall give special consideration to an offer-in-compromise 
     from a taxpayer who has been the victim of fraud by a third 
     party payroll tax preparer.
       Sec. 107.  None of the funds made available under this Act 
     may be used by the Internal Revenue Service to target 
     citizens of the United States for exercising any right 
     guaranteed under the First Amendment to the Constitution of 
     the United States.
       Sec. 108.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used by the Internal Revenue

[[Page H6890]]

     Service to target groups for regulatory scrutiny based on 
     their ideological beliefs.
       Sec. 109.  None of funds made available by this Act to the 
     Internal Revenue Service shall be obligated or expended on 
     conferences that do not adhere to the procedures, 
     verification processes, documentation requirements, and 
     policies issued by the Chief Financial Officer, Human Capital 
     Office, and Agency-Wide Shared Services as a result of the 
     recommendations in the report published on May 31, 2013, by 
     the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration 
     entitled ``Review of the August 2010 Small Business/Self-
     Employed Division's Conference in Anaheim, California'' 
     (Reference Number 2013-10-037).
       Sec. 110.  None of the funds made available in this Act to 
     the Internal Revenue Service may be obligated or expended--
       (1) to make a payment to any employee under a bonus, award, 
     or recognition program; or
       (2) under any hiring or personnel selection process with 
     respect to re-hiring a former employee, unless such program 
     or process takes into account the conduct and Federal tax 
     compliance of such employee or former employee.
       Sec. 111.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used in contravention of section 6103 of the Internal 
     Revenue Code of 1986 (relating to confidentiality and 
     disclosure of returns and return information).
       Sec. 112.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used by the Internal Revenue Service to implement or 
     enforce section 5000A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 
     section 6055 of such Code, section 1502(c) of the Patient 
     Protection and Affordable Care Act (Public Law 111-148), or 
     any amendments made by section 1502(b) of such Act.
       Sec. 113.  Except to the extent provided in section 6014, 
     6020, or 6201(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, no 
     funds in this or any other Act shall be available to the 
     Secretary of the Treasury to provide to any person a proposed 
     final return or statement for use by such person to satisfy a 
     filing or reporting requirement under such Code.
       Sec. 114.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used by the Internal Revenue Service to implement or 
     enforce Internal Revenue Service Notice 2017-10 with respect 
     to transactions entered into before January 23, 2017.
       Sec. 115.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to finalize, implement, or enforce amendments to 
     Treasury Regulations proposed in the Notice of Proposed 
     Rulemaking in the Federal Register on August 4, 2016 (81 Fed. 
     Reg. 51413) (relating to restrictions on liquidation of an 
     interest with respect to estate, gift, and generation-
     skipping transfer taxes under section 2704 of the Internal 
     Revenue Code of 1986), or any substantially similar 
     amendments to such regulations.
       Sec. 116.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used by the Internal Revenue Service to make a 
     determination that a church, an integrated auxiliary of a 
     church, or a convention or association of churches is not 
     exempt from taxation for participating in, or intervening in, 
     any political campaign on behalf of (or in opposition to) any 
     candidate for public office unless--
       (1) the Commissioner of Internal Revenue consents to such 
     determination;
       (2) not later than 30 days after such determination, the 
     Commissioner notifies the Committee on Ways and Means of the 
     House of Representatives and the Committee on Finance of the 
     Senate of such determination; and
       (3) such determination is effective with respect to the 
     church, integrated auxiliary of a church, or convention or 
     association of churches not earlier than 90 days after the 
     date of the notification under paragraph (2).

         Administrative Provisions--Department of the Treasury

                     (including transfers of funds)

       Sec. 117.  Appropriations to the Department of the Treasury 
     in this Act shall be available for uniforms or allowances 
     therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901), including 
     maintenance, repairs, and cleaning; purchase of insurance for 
     official motor vehicles operated in foreign countries; 
     purchase of motor vehicles without regard to the general 
     purchase price limitations for vehicles purchased and used 
     overseas for the current fiscal year; entering into contracts 
     with the Department of State for the furnishing of health and 
     medical services to employees and their dependents serving in 
     foreign countries; and services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
       Sec. 118.  Not to exceed 2 percent of any appropriations in 
     this title made available under the headings ``Departmental 
     Offices--Salaries and Expenses'', ``Office of Inspector 
     General'', ``Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset 
     Relief Program'', ``Financial Crimes Enforcement Network'', 
     ``Bureau of the Fiscal Service'', and ``Alcohol and Tobacco 
     Tax and Trade Bureau'' may be transferred between such 
     appropriations upon the advance approval of the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
     Senate:  Provided, That no transfer under this section may 
     increase or decrease any such appropriation by more than 2 
     percent.
       Sec. 119.  Not to exceed 2 percent of any appropriation 
     made available in this Act to the Internal Revenue Service 
     may be transferred to the Treasury Inspector General for Tax 
     Administration's appropriation upon the advance approval of 
     the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate:  Provided, That no transfer 
     may increase or decrease any such appropriation by more than 
     2 percent.
       Sec. 120.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act or 
     otherwise available to the Department of the Treasury or the 
     Bureau of Engraving and Printing may be used to redesign the 
     $1 Federal Reserve note.
       Sec. 121.  The Secretary of the Treasury may transfer funds 
     from the ``Bureau of the Fiscal Service-Salaries and 
     Expenses'' to the Debt Collection Fund as necessary to cover 
     the costs of debt collection:  Provided, That such amounts 
     shall be reimbursed to such salaries and expenses account 
     from debt collections received in the Debt Collection Fund.
       Sec. 122.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available by this or any other Act may be used by the United 
     States Mint to construct or operate any museum without the 
     explicit approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the 
     House of Representatives and the Senate, the House Committee 
     on Financial Services, and the Senate Committee on Banking, 
     Housing, and Urban Affairs.
       Sec. 123.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available by this or any other Act or source to the 
     Department of the Treasury, the Bureau of Engraving and 
     Printing, and the United States Mint, individually or 
     collectively, may be used to consolidate any or all functions 
     of the Bureau of Engraving and Printing and the United States 
     Mint without the explicit approval of the House Committee on 
     Financial Services; the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, 
     and Urban Affairs; and the Committees on Appropriations of 
     the House of Representatives and the Senate.
       Sec. 124.  Funds appropriated by this Act, or made 
     available by the transfer of funds in this Act, for the 
     Department of the Treasury's intelligence or intelligence 
     related activities are deemed to be specifically authorized 
     by the Congress for purposes of section 504 of the National 
     Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 414) during fiscal year 2018 
     until the enactment of the Intelligence Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2018.
       Sec. 125.  Not to exceed $5,000 shall be made available 
     from the Bureau of Engraving and Printing's Industrial 
     Revolving Fund for necessary official reception and 
     representation expenses.
       Sec. 126.  The Secretary of the Treasury shall submit a 
     Capital Investment Plan to the Committees on Appropriations 
     of the Senate and the House of Representatives not later than 
     30 days following the submission of the annual budget 
     submitted by the President:  Provided, That such Capital 
     Investment Plan shall include capital investment spending 
     from all accounts within the Department of the Treasury, 
     including but not limited to the Department-wide Systems and 
     Capital Investment Programs account, Treasury Franchise Fund 
     account, and the Treasury Forfeiture Fund account:  Provided 
     further, That such Capital Investment Plan shall include 
     expenditures occurring in previous fiscal years for each 
     capital investment project that has not been fully completed.
       Sec. 127. (a) Not later than 60 days after the end of each 
     quarter, the Office of Financial Stability and the Office of 
     Financial Research shall submit reports on their activities 
     to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate, the Committee on Financial 
     Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
     Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
       (b) The reports required under subsection (a) shall 
     include--
       (1) the obligations made during the previous quarter by 
     object class, office, and activity;
       (2) the estimated obligations for the remainder of the 
     fiscal year by object class, office, and activity;
       (3) the number of full-time equivalents within each office 
     during the previous quarter;
       (4) the estimated number of full-time equivalents within 
     each office for the remainder of the fiscal year; and
       (5) actions taken to achieve the goals, objectives, and 
     performance measures of each office.
       (c) At the request of any such Committees specified in 
     subsection (a), the Office of Financial Stability and the 
     Office of Financial Research shall make officials available 
     to testify on the contents of the reports required under 
     subsection (a).
       Sec. 128.  Within 45 days after the date of enactment of 
     this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall submit an 
     itemized report to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
     House of Representatives and the Senate on the amount of 
     total funds charged to each office by the Franchise Fund 
     including the amount charged for each service provided by the 
     Franchise Fund to each office, a detailed description of the 
     services, a detailed explanation of how each charge for each 
     service is calculated, and a description of the role 
     customers have in governing in the Franchise Fund.
       Sec. 129.  During fiscal year 2018--
       (1) none of the funds made available in this or any other 
     Act may be used by the Department of the Treasury, including 
     the Internal Revenue Service, to issue, revise, or finalize 
     any regulation, revenue ruling, or other guidance not limited 
     to a particular taxpayer relating to the standard which is 
     used to determine whether an organization is operated 
     exclusively for the promotion of social welfare for purposes 
     of section 501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     (including the proposed regulations published at 78 Fed. Reg. 
     71535 (November 29, 2013)); and
       (2) the standard and definitions as in effect on January 1, 
     2010, which are used to make such determinations shall apply 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act for purposes of 
     determining status under section 501(c)(4) of such Code of 
     organizations created on, before, or after such date.
       Sec. 130. (a) None of the funds made available by this Act 
     may be used to approve, license, facilitate, authorize, or 
     otherwise allow the use, purchase, trafficking, or import of 
     property confiscated by the Cuban Government.
       (b) In this section, the terms ``confiscated'', ``Cuban 
     Government'', ``property'', and ``traffic'' have the meanings 
     given such terms in paragraphs (4), (5), (12)(A), and (13), 
     respectively, of section 4 of the Cuban Liberty and 
     Democratic Solidarity (LIBERTAD) Act of 1996 (22 U.S.C. 
     6023).

[[Page H6891]]

       Sec. 131. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act 
     may be used to authorize a general license or approve a 
     specific license under section 501.801 or 515.527 of title 
     31, Code of Federal Regulations, with respect to a mark, 
     trade name, or commercial name that is the same as or 
     substantially similar to a mark, trade name, or commercial 
     name that was used in connection with a business or assets 
     that were confiscated unless the original owner of the mark, 
     trade name, or commercial name, or the bona-fide successor-
     in-interest has expressly consented.
       (b) In this section, the term ``confiscated'' has a meaning 
     given such term in section 4(4) of the Cuban Liberty and 
     Democratic Solidarity (LIBERTAD) Act of 1996 (22 U.S.C. 
     6023(4)).
       Sec. 132.  Notwithstanding paragraph (2) of section 402(c) 
     of the Helping Families Save their Homes Act of 2009, in 
     utilizing funds made available by paragraph (1) of section 
     402(c) of such Act, the Special Inspector General for the 
     Troubled Asset Relief Program shall prioritize the 
     performance of audits or investigations of any program that 
     is funded in whole or in part by funds appropriated under the 
     Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, to the extent 
     that such priority is consistent with other aspects of the 
     mission of the Special Inspector General.
       Sec. 133.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available in this Act may be obligated or expended to provide 
     for the enforcement of any rule, regulation, policy, or 
     guideline implemented pursuant to the Department of the 
     Treasury ``Guidance for United States Positions on MDBs 
     Engaging with Developing Countries on Coal-Fired Power 
     Generation'' dated October 29, 2013, when enforcement of such 
     rule, regulation, policy, or guideline would prohibit or have 
     the effect of prohibiting, the carrying out of any coal-fired 
     or other power generation project the purpose of which is to 
     increase exports of goods and services from the United States 
     or prevent the loss of jobs from the United States.
       This title may be cited as the ``Department of the Treasury 
     Appropriations Act, 2018''.

                                TITLE II

    EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT AND FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE 
                               PRESIDENT

                            The White House

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses for the White House as authorized by 
     law, including not to exceed $3,850,000 for services as 
     authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 105; subsistence 
     expenses as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 105, which shall be 
     expended and accounted for as provided in that section; hire 
     of passenger motor vehicles, and travel (not to exceed 
     $100,000 to be expended and accounted for as provided by 3 
     U.S.C. 103); and not to exceed $19,000 for official reception 
     and representation expenses, to be available for allocation 
     within the Executive Office of the President; and for 
     necessary expenses of the Office of Policy Development, 
     including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 
     U.S.C. 107, $55,000,000.

                 Executive Residence at the White House

                           operating expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Executive Residence at the 
     White House, $12,917,000, to be expended and accounted for as 
     provided by 3 U.S.C. 105, 109, 110, and 112-114.

                         reimbursable expenses

       For the reimbursable expenses of the Executive Residence at 
     the White House, such sums as may be necessary:  Provided, 
     That all reimbursable operating expenses of the Executive 
     Residence shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
     this paragraph:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding any 
     other provision of law, such amount for reimbursable 
     operating expenses shall be the exclusive authority of the 
     Executive Residence to incur obligations and to receive 
     offsetting collections, for such expenses:  Provided further, 
     That the Executive Residence shall require each person 
     sponsoring a reimbursable political event to pay in advance 
     an amount equal to the estimated cost of the event, and all 
     such advance payments shall be credited to this account and 
     remain available until expended:  Provided further, That the 
     Executive Residence shall require the national committee of 
     the political party of the President to maintain on deposit 
     $25,000, to be separately accounted for and available for 
     expenses relating to reimbursable political events sponsored 
     by such committee during such fiscal year:  Provided further, 
     That the Executive Residence shall ensure that a written 
     notice of any amount owed for a reimbursable operating 
     expense under this paragraph is submitted to the person owing 
     such amount within 60 days after such expense is incurred, 
     and that such amount is collected within 30 days after the 
     submission of such notice:  Provided further, That the 
     Executive Residence shall charge interest and assess 
     penalties and other charges on any such amount that is not 
     reimbursed within such 30 days, in accordance with the 
     interest and penalty provisions applicable to an outstanding 
     debt on a United States Government claim under 31 U.S.C. 
     3717:  Provided further, That each such amount that is 
     reimbursed, and any accompanying interest and charges, shall 
     be deposited in the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts:  
     Provided further, That the Executive Residence shall prepare 
     and submit to the Committees on Appropriations, by not later 
     than 90 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this 
     Act, a report setting forth the reimbursable operating 
     expenses of the Executive Residence during the preceding 
     fiscal year, including the total amount of such expenses, the 
     amount of such total that consists of reimbursable official 
     and ceremonial events, the amount of such total that consists 
     of reimbursable political events, and the portion of each 
     such amount that has been reimbursed as of the date of the 
     report:  Provided further, That the Executive Residence shall 
     maintain a system for the tracking of expenses related to 
     reimbursable events within the Executive Residence that 
     includes a standard for the classification of any such 
     expense as political or nonpolitical:  Provided further, That 
     no provision of this paragraph may be construed to exempt the 
     Executive Residence from any other applicable requirement of 
     subchapter I or II of chapter 37 of title 31, United States 
     Code.

                   White House Repair and Restoration

       For the repair, alteration, and improvement of the 
     Executive Residence at the White House pursuant to 3 U.S.C. 
     105(d), $750,000, to remain available until expended, for 
     required maintenance, resolution of safety and health issues, 
     and continued preventative maintenance.

                      Council of Economic Advisers

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Council of Economic Advisers 
     in carrying out its functions under the Employment Act of 
     1946 (15 U.S.C. 1021 et seq.), $4,187,000.

        National Security Council and Homeland Security Council

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the National Security Council and 
     the Homeland Security Council, including services as 
     authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $11,800,000.

                        Office of Administration

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Office of Administration, 
     including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 
     U.S.C. 107, and hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
     $100,000,000, of which not to exceed $12,800,000 shall remain 
     available until expended for continued modernization of 
     information resources within the Executive Office of the 
     President.

                    Office of Management and Budget

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Office of Management and 
     Budget, including hire of passenger motor vehicles and 
     services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, to carry out the 
     provisions of chapter 35 of title 44, United States Code, and 
     to prepare and submit the budget of the United States 
     Government, in accordance with section 1105(a) of title 31, 
     United States Code, $100,000,000, of which not to exceed 
     $3,000 shall be available for official representation 
     expenses:  Provided, That none of the funds appropriated in 
     this Act for the Office of Management and Budget may be used 
     for the purpose of reviewing any agricultural marketing 
     orders or any activities or regulations under the provisions 
     of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937 (7 U.S.C. 
     601 et seq.):  Provided further, That none of the funds made 
     available for the Office of Management and Budget by this Act 
     may be expended for the altering of the transcript of actual 
     testimony of witnesses, except for testimony of officials of 
     the Office of Management and Budget, before the Committees on 
     Appropriations or their subcommittees:  Provided further, 
     That of the funds made available for the Office of Management 
     and Budget by this Act, no less than three full-time 
     equivalent senior staff position shall be dedicated solely to 
     the Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement 
     Coordinator:  Provided further, That none of the funds 
     provided in this or prior Acts shall be used, directly or 
     indirectly, by the Office of Management and Budget, for 
     evaluating or determining if water resource project or study 
     reports submitted by the Chief of Engineers acting through 
     the Secretary of the Army are in compliance with all 
     applicable laws, regulations, and requirements relevant to 
     the Civil Works water resource planning process:  Provided 
     further, That the Office of Management and Budget shall have 
     not more than 60 days in which to perform budgetary policy 
     reviews of water resource matters on which the Chief of 
     Engineers has reported:  Provided further, That the Director 
     of the Office of Management and Budget shall notify the 
     appropriate authorizing and appropriating committees when the 
     60-day review is initiated:  Provided further, That if water 
     resource reports have not been transmitted to the appropriate 
     authorizing and appropriating committees within 15 days after 
     the end of the Office of Management and Budget review period 
     based on the notification from the Director, Congress shall 
     assume Office of Management and Budget concurrence with the 
     report and act accordingly.

                 Office of National Drug Control Policy

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug 
     Control Policy; for research activities pursuant to the 
     Office of National Drug Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 
     2006 (Public Law 109-469); not to exceed $10,000 for official 
     reception and representation expenses; and for participation 
     in joint projects or in the provision of services on matters 
     of mutual interest with nonprofit, research, or public 
     organizations or agencies, with or without reimbursement, 
     $18,400,000:  Provided, That the Office is authorized to 
     accept, hold, administer, and utilize gifts, both real and 
     personal, public and private, without fiscal year limitation, 
     for the purpose of aiding or facilitating the work of the 
     Office.

                     federal drug control programs

             high intensity drug trafficking areas program

                     (including transfers of funds)

       For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug 
     Control Policy's High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas 
     Program, $254,000,000, to remain available until September 
     30, 2019, for drug control activities consistent with the 
     approved strategy for each of the designated High

[[Page H6892]]

     Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (``HIDTAs''), of which not 
     less than 51 percent shall be transferred to State and local 
     entities for drug control activities and shall be obligated 
     not later than 120 days after enactment of this Act:  
     Provided, That up to 49 percent may be transferred to Federal 
     agencies and departments in amounts determined by the 
     Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy, of 
     which up to $2,700,000 may be used for auditing services and 
     associated activities:  Provided further, That, 
     notwithstanding the requirements of Public Law 106-58, any 
     unexpended funds obligated prior to fiscal year 2016 may be 
     used for any other approved activities of that HIDTA, subject 
     to reprogramming requirements:  Provided further, That each 
     HIDTA designated as of September 30, 2017, shall be funded at 
     not less than the fiscal year 2017 base level, unless the 
     Director submits to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
     House of Representatives and the Senate justification for 
     changes to those levels based on clearly articulated 
     priorities and published Office of National Drug Control 
     Policy performance measures of effectiveness:  Provided 
     further, That the Director shall notify the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the initial allocation of fiscal year 2018 
     funding among HIDTAs not later than 45 days after enactment 
     of this Act, and shall notify the Committees of planned uses 
     of discretionary HIDTA funding, as determined in consultation 
     with the HIDTA Directors, not later than 90 days after 
     enactment of this Act:  Provided further, That upon a 
     determination that all or part of the funds so transferred 
     from this appropriation are not necessary for the purposes 
     provided herein and upon notification to the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
     Senate, such amounts may be transferred back to this 
     appropriation.

                  other federal drug control programs

                     (including transfers of funds)

       For other drug control activities authorized by the Office 
     of National Drug Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 2006 
     (Public Law 109-469), $108,843,000, to remain available until 
     expended, which shall be available as follows: $91,000,000 
     for the Drug-Free Communities Program, of which $2,000,000 
     shall be made available as directed by section 4 of Public 
     Law 107-82, as amended by Public Law 109-469 (21 U.S.C. 1521 
     note); $2,000,000 for drug court training and technical 
     assistance; $9,500,000 for anti-doping activities; $2,343,000 
     for the United States membership dues to the World Anti-
     Doping Agency; $1,000,000 shall be made available as directed 
     by section 1105 of Public Law 109-469; and $3,000,000, to 
     remain available until expended, shall be for activities 
     authorized by section 103 of Public Law 114-198:  Provided, 
     That amounts made available under this heading may be 
     transferred to other Federal departments and agencies to 
     carry out such activities.

                          Unanticipated Needs

       For expenses necessary to enable the President to meet 
     unanticipated needs, in furtherance of the national interest, 
     security, or defense which may arise at home or abroad during 
     the current fiscal year, as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 108, 
     $798,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019.

              Information Technology Oversight and Reform

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For necessary expenses for the furtherance of integrated, 
     efficient, secure, and effective uses of information 
     technology in the Federal Government, $20,000,000, to remain 
     available until expended:  Provided, That the Director of the 
     Office of Management and Budget may transfer these funds to 
     one or more other agencies to carry out projects to meet 
     these purposes.

                  Special Assistance to the President

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses to enable the Vice President to 
     provide assistance to the President in connection with 
     specially assigned functions; services as authorized by 5 
     U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 106, including subsistence expenses 
     as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 106, which shall be expended and 
     accounted for as provided in that section; and hire of 
     passenger motor vehicles, $4,288,000.

                Official Residence of the Vice President

                           operating expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For the care, operation, refurnishing, improvement, and to 
     the extent not otherwise provided for, heating and lighting, 
     including electric power and fixtures, of the official 
     residence of the Vice President; the hire of passenger motor 
     vehicles; and not to exceed $90,000 pursuant to 3 U.S.C. 
     106(b)(2), $302,000:  Provided, That advances, repayments, or 
     transfers from this appropriation may be made to any 
     department or agency for expenses of carrying out such 
     activities.

Administrative Provisions--Executive Office of the President and Funds 
                     Appropriated to the President

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 201.  From funds made available in this Act under the 
     headings ``The White House'', ``Executive Residence at the 
     White House'', ``White House Repair and Restoration'', 
     ``Council of Economic Advisers'', ``National Security Council 
     and Homeland Security Council'', ``Office of 
     Administration'', ``Special Assistance to the President'', 
     and ``Official Residence of the Vice President'', the 
     Director of the Office of Management and Budget (or such 
     other officer as the President may designate in writing), 
     may, with advance approval of the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
     Senate, transfer not to exceed 10 percent of any such 
     appropriation to any other such appropriation, to be merged 
     with and available for the same time and for the same 
     purposes as the appropriation to which transferred:  
     Provided, That the amount of an appropriation shall not be 
     increased by more than 50 percent by such transfers:  
     Provided further, That no amount shall be transferred from 
     ``Special Assistance to the President'' or ``Official 
     Residence of the Vice President'' without the approval of the 
     Vice President.
       Sec. 202.  Within 90 days after the date of enactment of 
     this section, the Director of the Office of Management and 
     Budget shall submit a report to the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
     on the costs of implementing the Dodd-Frank Wall Street 
     Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Public Law 111-203). Such 
     report shall include--
       (1) the estimated mandatory and discretionary obligations 
     of funds through fiscal year 2019, by Federal agency and by 
     fiscal year, including--
       (A) the estimated obligations by cost inputs such as rent, 
     information technology, contracts, and personnel;
       (B) the methodology and data sources used to calculate such 
     estimated obligations; and
       (C) the specific section of such Act that requires the 
     obligation of funds; and
       (2) the estimated receipts through fiscal year 2019 from 
     assessments, user fees, and other fees by the Federal agency 
     making the collections, by fiscal year, including--
       (A) the methodology and data sources used to calculate such 
     estimated collections; and
       (B) the specific section of such Act that authorizes the 
     collection of funds.
       Sec. 203. (a) During fiscal year 2018, any Executive order 
     or Presidential memorandum issued or revoked by the President 
     shall be accompanied by a written statement from the Director 
     of the Office of Management and Budget on the budgetary 
     impact, including costs, benefits, and revenues, of such 
     order or memorandum.
       (b) Any such statement shall include--
       (1) a narrative summary of the budgetary impact of such 
     order or memorandum on the Federal Government;
       (2) the impact on mandatory and discretionary obligations 
     and outlays as the result of such order or memorandum, listed 
     by Federal agency, for each year in the 5-fiscal-year period 
     beginning in fiscal year 2018; and
       (3) the impact on revenues of the Federal Government as the 
     result of such order or memorandum over the 5-fiscal-year 
     period beginning in fiscal year 2018.
       (c) If an Executive order or Presidential memorandum is 
     issued during fiscal year 2018 due to a national emergency, 
     the Director of the Office of Management and Budget may issue 
     the statement required by subsection (a) not later than 15 
     days after the date that such order or memorandum is issued.
       (d) The requirement for cost estimates for Presidential 
     memoranda shall only apply for Presidential memoranda 
     estimated to have a regulatory cost in excess of 
     $100,000,000.
       This title may be cited as the ``Executive Office of the 
     President Appropriations Act, 2018''.

                               TITLE III

                             THE JUDICIARY

                   Supreme Court of the United States

                         salaries and expenses

       For expenses necessary for the operation of the Supreme 
     Court, as required by law, excluding care of the building and 
     grounds, including hire of passenger motor vehicles as 
     authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 1344; not to exceed $10,000 
     for official reception and representation expenses; and for 
     miscellaneous expenses, to be expended as the Chief Justice 
     may approve, $78,538,000, of which $1,500,000 shall remain 
     available until expended.
       In addition, there are appropriated such sums as may be 
     necessary under current law for the salaries of the chief 
     justice and associate justices of the court.

                    care of the building and grounds

       For such expenditures as may be necessary to enable the 
     Architect of the Capitol to carry out the duties imposed upon 
     the Architect by 40 U.S.C. 6111 and 6112, $15,000,000, to 
     remain available until expended.

         United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit

                         salaries and expenses

       For salaries of officers and employees, and for necessary 
     expenses of the court, as authorized by law, $30,592,000.
       In addition, there are appropriated such sums as may be 
     necessary under current law for the salaries of the chief 
     judge and judges of the court.

               United States Court of International Trade

                         salaries and expenses

       For salaries of officers and employees of the court, 
     services, and necessary expenses of the court, as authorized 
     by law, $18,556,000.
       In addition, there are appropriated such sums as may be 
     necessary under current law for the salaries of the chief 
     judge and judges of the court.

    Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial Services

                         salaries and expenses

       For the salaries of judges of the United States Court of 
     Federal Claims, magistrate judges, and all other officers and 
     employees of the Federal Judiciary not otherwise specifically 
     provided for, necessary expenses of the courts, and the 
     purchase, rental, repair, and cleaning of uniforms for 
     Probation and Pretrial Services Office

[[Page H6893]]

     staff, as authorized by law, $5,082,710,000 (including the 
     purchase of firearms and ammunition); of which not to exceed 
     $27,817,000 shall remain available until expended for space 
     alteration projects and for furniture and furnishings related 
     to new space alteration and construction projects.
       In addition, there are appropriated such sums as may be 
     necessary under current law for the salaries of circuit and 
     district judges (including judges of the territorial courts 
     of the United States), bankruptcy judges, and justices and 
     judges retired from office or from regular active service.
       In addition, for expenses of the United States Court of 
     Federal Claims associated with processing cases under the 
     National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act of 1986 (Public Law 99-
     660), not to exceed $7,366,000, to be appropriated from the 
     Vaccine Injury Compensation Trust Fund.

                           defender services

       For the operation of Federal Defender organizations; the 
     compensation and reimbursement of expenses of attorneys 
     appointed to represent persons under 18 U.S.C. 3006A and 
     3599, and for the compensation and reimbursement of expenses 
     of persons furnishing investigative, expert, and other 
     services for such representations as authorized by law; the 
     compensation (in accordance with the maximums under 18 U.S.C. 
     3006A) and reimbursement of expenses of attorneys appointed 
     to assist the court in criminal cases where the defendant has 
     waived representation by counsel; the compensation and 
     reimbursement of expenses of attorneys appointed to represent 
     jurors in civil actions for the protection of their 
     employment, as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 1875(d)(1); the 
     compensation and reimbursement of expenses of attorneys 
     appointed under 18 U.S.C. 983(b)(1) in connection with 
     certain judicial civil forfeiture proceedings; the 
     compensation and reimbursement of travel expenses of 
     guardians ad litem appointed under 18 U.S.C. 4100(b); and for 
     necessary training and general administrative expenses, 
     $1,110,375,000 to remain available until expended.

                    fees of jurors and commissioners

       For fees and expenses of jurors as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 
     1871 and 1876; compensation of jury commissioners as 
     authorized by 28 U.S.C. 1863; and compensation of 
     commissioners appointed in condemnation cases pursuant to 
     rule 71.1(h) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (28 
     U.S.C. Appendix Rule 71.1(h)), $39,929,000, to remain 
     available until expended:  Provided, That the compensation of 
     land commissioners shall not exceed the daily equivalent of 
     the highest rate payable under 5 U.S.C. 5332.

                             court security

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, 
     incident to the provision of protective guard services for 
     United States courthouses and other facilities housing 
     Federal court operations, and the procurement, installation, 
     and maintenance of security systems and equipment for United 
     States courthouses and other facilities housing Federal court 
     operations, including building ingress-egress control, 
     inspection of mail and packages, directed security patrols, 
     perimeter security, basic security services provided by the 
     Federal Protective Service, and other similar activities as 
     authorized by section 1010 of the Judicial Improvement and 
     Access to Justice Act (Public Law 100-702), $574,593,000, of 
     which not to exceed $20,000,000 shall remain available until 
     expended, to be expended directly or transferred to the 
     United States Marshals Service, which shall be responsible 
     for administering the Judicial Facility Security Program 
     consistent with standards or guidelines agreed to by the 
     Director of the Administrative Office of the United States 
     Courts and the Attorney General.

           Administrative Office of the United States Courts

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Administrative Office of the 
     United States Courts as authorized by law, including travel 
     as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1345, hire of a passenger motor 
     vehicle as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343(b), advertising and 
     rent in the District of Columbia and elsewhere, $87,920,000, 
     of which not to exceed $8,500 is authorized for official 
     reception and representation expenses.

                        Federal Judicial Center

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Federal Judicial Center, as 
     authorized by Public Law 90-219, $28,708,000; of which 
     $1,800,000 shall remain available through September 30, 2019, 
     to provide education and training to Federal court personnel; 
     and of which not to exceed $1,500 is authorized for official 
     reception and representation expenses.

                  United States Sentencing Commission

                         salaries and expenses

       For the salaries and expenses necessary to carry out the 
     provisions of chapter 58 of title 28, United States Code, 
     $18,338,000, of which not to exceed $1,000 is authorized for 
     official reception and representation expenses.

                Administrative Provisions--The Judiciary

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 301.  Appropriations and authorizations made in this 
     title which are available for salaries and expenses shall be 
     available for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
       Sec. 302.  Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation 
     made available for the current fiscal year for the Judiciary 
     in this Act may be transferred between such appropriations, 
     but no such appropriation, except ``Courts of Appeals, 
     District Courts, and Other Judicial Services, Defender 
     Services'' and ``Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and 
     Other Judicial Services, Fees of Jurors and Commissioners'', 
     shall be increased by more than 10 percent by any such 
     transfers:  Provided, That any transfer pursuant to this 
     section shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under 
     sections 604 and 608 of this Act and shall not be available 
     for obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the 
     procedures set forth in section 608.
       Sec. 303.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
     salaries and expenses appropriation for ``Courts of Appeals, 
     District Courts, and Other Judicial Services'' shall be 
     available for official reception and representation expenses 
     of the Judicial Conference of the United States:  Provided, 
     That such available funds shall not exceed $11,000 and shall 
     be administered by the Director of the Administrative Office 
     of the United States Courts in the capacity as Secretary of 
     the Judicial Conference.
       Sec. 304.  Section 3315(a) of title 40, United States Code, 
     shall be applied by substituting ``Federal'' for 
     ``executive'' each place it appears.
       Sec. 305.  In accordance with 28 U.S.C. 561-569, and 
     notwithstanding any other provision of law, the United States 
     Marshals Service shall provide, for such courthouses as its 
     Director may designate in consultation with the Director of 
     the Administrative Office of the United States Courts, for 
     purposes of a pilot program, the security services that 40 
     U.S.C. 1315 authorizes the Department of Homeland Security to 
     provide, except for the services specified in 40 U.S.C. 
     1315(b)(2)(E). For building-specific security services at 
     these courthouses, the Director of the Administrative Office 
     of the United States Courts shall reimburse the United States 
     Marshals Service rather than the Department of Homeland 
     Security.
       Sec. 306. (a) Section 203(c) of the Judicial Improvements 
     Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-650; 28 U.S.C. 133 note), is 
     amended in the second sentence (relating to the District of 
     Kansas) following paragraph (12), by striking ``26 years and 
     6 months'' and inserting ``27 years and 6 months''.
       (b) Section 406 of the Transportation, Treasury, Housing 
     and Urban Development, the Judiciary, the District of 
     Columbia, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006 
     (Public Law 109-115; 119 Stat. 2470; 28 U.S.C. 133 note) is 
     amended in the second sentence (relating to the eastern 
     District of Missouri) by striking ``24 years and 6 months'' 
     and inserting ``25 years and 6 months''.
       (c) Section 312(c)(2) of the 21st Century Department of 
     Justice Appropriations Authorization Act (Public Law 107-273; 
     28 U.S.C. 133 note), is amended--
       (1) in the first sentence by inserting after ``except in 
     the case of'' the following: ``the northern district of 
     Alabama,'';
       (2) in the first sentence by inserting after ``the central 
     district of California'' the following: ``,'';
       (3) in the first sentence by striking ``15 years'' and 
     inserting ``16 years'';
       (4) by adding at the end of the first sentence the 
     following: ``The first vacancy in the office of district 
     judge in the district of Alabama occurring 15 years or more 
     after the confirmation date of the judge named to fill the 
     temporary district judgeship created in that district by this 
     subsection, shall not be filled.'';
       (5) in the third sentence (relating to the central District 
     of California), by striking ``14 years and 6 months'' and 
     inserting ``15 years and 6 months''; and
       (6) in the fourth sentence (relating to the western 
     district of North Carolina), by striking ``13 years'' and 
     inserting ``14 years''.
       Sec. 307. (a) Section 2(a)(2)(C)(i) of the Temporary 
     Bankruptcy Judgeships Extension Act of 2012 (28 U.S.C. 152 
     note; Public Law 112-121 as amended) is amended by striking 
     ``6 years'' and inserting ``7 years''.
       (b) Section 2(a)(2)(D)(i) of the Temporary Bankruptcy 
     Judgeships Extension Act of 2012 (28 U.S.C. 152 note; Public 
     Law 112-121 as amended) is amended by striking ``6 years'' 
     and inserting ``7 years''.
       (c) Section 2(a)(2)(F)(i) of the Temporary Bankruptcy 
     Judgeships Extension Act of 2012 (28 U.S.C. 152 note; Public 
     Law 112-121 as amended) is amended by striking ``6 years'' 
     and inserting ``7 years''.
       (d) Section 2(a)(2)(G)(i) of the Temporary Bankruptcy 
     Judgeships Extension Act of 2012 (28 U.S.C. 152 note; Public 
     Law 112-121 as amended) is amended by striking ``6 years'' 
     and inserting ``7 years''.
       (e) Section 2(a)(2)(H)(i) of the Temporary Bankruptcy 
     Judgeships Extension Act of 2012 (28 U.S.C. 152 note; Public 
     Law 112-121 as amended) is amended by striking ``6 years'' 
     and inserting ``7 years''.
       This title may be cited as the ``Judiciary Appropriations 
     Act, 2018''.

                                TITLE IV

                          DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

                             Federal Funds

              federal payment for resident tuition support

       For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia, to be 
     deposited into a dedicated account, for a nationwide program 
     to be administered by the Mayor, for District of Columbia 
     resident tuition support, $30,000,000, to remain available 
     until expended:  Provided, That such funds, including any 
     interest accrued thereon, may be used on behalf of eligible 
     District of Columbia residents to pay an amount based upon 
     the difference between in-State and out-of-State tuition at 
     public institutions of higher education, or to pay up to 
     $2,500 each year at eligible private institutions of higher 
     education:  Provided further, That the awarding of such funds 
     may be prioritized on the basis of a resident's

[[Page H6894]]

     academic merit, the income and need of eligible students and 
     such other factors as may be authorized:  Provided further, 
     That the District of Columbia government shall maintain a 
     dedicated account for the Resident Tuition Support Program 
     that shall consist of the Federal funds appropriated to the 
     Program in this Act and any subsequent appropriations, any 
     unobligated balances from prior fiscal years, and any 
     interest earned in this or any fiscal year:  Provided 
     further, That the account shall be under the control of the 
     District of Columbia Chief Financial Officer, who shall use 
     those funds solely for the purposes of carrying out the 
     Resident Tuition Support Program:  Provided further, That the 
     Office of the Chief Financial Officer shall provide a 
     quarterly financial report to the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
     for these funds showing, by object class, the expenditures 
     made and the purpose therefor.

   federal payment for emergency planning and security costs in the 
                          district of columbia

       For a Federal payment of necessary expenses, as determined 
     by the Mayor of the District of Columbia in written 
     consultation with the elected county or city officials of 
     surrounding jurisdictions, $13,000,000, to remain available 
     until expended, for the costs of providing public safety at 
     events related to the presence of the National Capital in the 
     District of Columbia, including support requested by the 
     Director of the United States Secret Service in carrying out 
     protective duties under the direction of the Secretary of 
     Homeland Security, and for the costs of providing support to 
     respond to immediate and specific terrorist threats or 
     attacks in the District of Columbia or surrounding 
     jurisdictions.

           federal payment to the district of columbia courts

       For salaries and expenses for the District of Columbia 
     Courts, $265,400,000 to be allocated as follows: for the 
     District of Columbia Court of Appeals, $14,000,000, of which 
     not to exceed $2,500 is for official reception and 
     representation expenses; for the Superior Court of the 
     District of Columbia, $121,000,000, of which not to exceed 
     $2,500 is for official reception and representation expenses; 
     for the District of Columbia Court System, $71,500,000, of 
     which not to exceed $2,500 is for official reception and 
     representation expenses; and $58,900,000, to remain available 
     until September 30, 2019, for capital improvements for 
     District of Columbia courthouse facilities:  Provided, That 
     funds made available for capital improvements shall be 
     expended consistent with the District of Columbia Courts 
     master plan study and facilities condition assessment:  
     Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
     law, all amounts under this heading shall be apportioned 
     quarterly by the Office of Management and Budget and 
     obligated and expended in the same manner as funds 
     appropriated for salaries and expenses of other Federal 
     agencies:  Provided further, That 30 days after providing 
     written notice to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
     House of Representatives and the Senate, the District of 
     Columbia Courts may reallocate not more than $6,000,000 of 
     the funds provided under this heading among the items and 
     entities funded under this heading:  Provided further, That 
     the Joint Committee on Judicial Administration in the 
     District of Columbia may, by regulation, establish a program 
     substantially similar to the program set forth in subchapter 
     II of chapter 35 of title 5, United States Code, for 
     employees of the District of Columbia Courts.

  federal payment for defender services in district of columbia courts

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For payments authorized under section 11-2604 and section 
     11-2605, D.C. Official Code (relating to representation 
     provided under the District of Columbia Criminal Justice 
     Act), payments for counsel appointed in proceedings in the 
     Family Court of the Superior Court of the District of 
     Columbia under chapter 23 of title 16, D.C. Official Code, or 
     pursuant to contractual agreements to provide guardian ad 
     litem representation, training, technical assistance, and 
     such other services as are necessary to improve the quality 
     of guardian ad litem representation, payments for counsel 
     appointed in adoption proceedings under chapter 3 of title 
     16, D.C. Official Code, and payments authorized under section 
     21-2060, D.C. Official Code (relating to services provided 
     under the District of Columbia Guardianship, Protective 
     Proceedings, and Durable Power of Attorney Act of 1986), 
     $49,890,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
     That not more than $20,000,000 in unobligated funds provided 
     in this account may be transferred to and merged with funds 
     made available under the heading "Federal Payment to the 
     District of Columbia Courts," to be available for the same 
     period and purposes as funds made available under that 
     heading for capital improvements to District of Columbia 
     courthouse facilities:  Provided, That funds provided under 
     this heading shall be administered by the Joint Committee on 
     Judicial Administration in the District of Columbia:  
     Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other provision 
     of law, this appropriation shall be apportioned quarterly by 
     the Office of Management and Budget and obligated and 
     expended in the same manner as funds appropriated for 
     expenses of other Federal agencies.

 federal payment to the court services and offender supervision agency 
                      for the district of columbia

       For salaries and expenses, including the transfer and hire 
     of motor vehicles, of the Court Services and Offender 
     Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia, as 
     authorized by the National Capital Revitalization and Self-
     Government Improvement Act of 1997, $244,298,000, of which 
     not to exceed $2,000 is for official reception and 
     representation expenses related to Community Supervision and 
     Pretrial Services Agency programs, of which not to exceed 
     $25,000 is for dues and assessments relating to the 
     implementation of the Court Services and Offender Supervision 
     Agency Interstate Supervision Act of 2002; of which 
     $180,840,000 shall be for necessary expenses of Community 
     Supervision and Sex Offender Registration, to include 
     expenses relating to the supervision of adults subject to 
     protection orders or the provision of services for or related 
     to such persons; and of which $63,458,000 shall be available 
     to the Pretrial Services Agency:  Provided, That 
     notwithstanding any other provision of law, all amounts under 
     this heading shall be apportioned quarterly by the Office of 
     Management and Budget and obligated and expended in the same 
     manner as funds appropriated for salaries and expenses of 
     other Federal agencies:  Provided further, That amounts under 
     this heading may be used for programmatic incentives for 
     defendants to successfully complete their terms of 
     supervision.

  federal payment to the district of columbia public defender service

       For salaries and expenses, including the transfer and hire 
     of motor vehicles, of the District of Columbia Public 
     Defender Service, as authorized by the National Capital 
     Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement Act of 1997, 
     $40,082,000:  Provided, That notwithstanding any other 
     provision of law, all amounts under this heading shall be 
     apportioned quarterly by the Office of Management and Budget 
     and obligated and expended in the same manner as funds 
     appropriated for salaries and expenses of Federal agencies.

      federal payment to the criminal justice coordinating council

       For a Federal payment to the Criminal Justice Coordinating 
     Council, $1,900,000, to remain available until expended, to 
     support initiatives related to the coordination of Federal 
     and local criminal justice resources in the District of 
     Columbia.

                federal payment for judicial commissions

       For a Federal payment, to remain available until September 
     30, 2019, to the Commission on Judicial Disabilities and 
     Tenure, $295,000, and for the Judicial Nomination Commission, 
     $270,000.

                 federal payment for school improvement

       For a Federal payment for a school improvement program in 
     the District of Columbia, $45,000,000, to remain available 
     until expended, for payments authorized under the Scholarship 
     for Opportunity and Results Act (division C of Public Law 
     112-10):  Provided, That, to the extent that funds are 
     available for opportunity scholarships and following the 
     priorities included in section 3006 of such Act, the 
     Secretary of Education shall make scholarships available to 
     students eligible under section 3013(3) of such Act (Public 
     Law 112-10; 125 Stat. 211) including students who were not 
     offered a scholarship during any previous school year:  
     Provided further, That within funds provided for opportunity 
     scholarships $3,200,000 shall be for the activities specified 
     in sections 3007(b) through 3007(d) and 3009 of the Act.

      federal payment for the district of columbia national guard

       For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia National 
     Guard, $435,000, to remain available until expended for the 
     Major General David F. Wherley, Jr. District of Columbia 
     National Guard Retention and College Access Program.

         federal payment for testing and treatment of hiv/aids

       For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia for the 
     testing of individuals for, and the treatment of individuals 
     with, human immunodeficiency virus and acquired 
     immunodeficiency syndrome in the District of Columbia, 
     $5,000,000.

                       District of Columbia Funds

       Local funds are appropriated for the District of Columbia 
     for the current fiscal year out of the General Fund of the 
     District of Columbia (``General Fund'') for programs and 
     activities set forth under the heading ``Part A--Summary of 
     Expenses'' and at the rate set forth under such heading, as 
     included in D.C. Bill 22-242, as amended as of the date of 
     the enactment of this Act:  Provided, That notwithstanding 
     any other provision of law, except as provided in section 
     450A of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act (section 1-
     204.50a, D.C. Official Code), sections 816 and 817 of the 
     Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act, 
     2009 (secs. 47-369.01 and 47-369.02, D.C. Official Code), and 
     provisions of this Act, the total amount appropriated in this 
     Act for operating expenses for the District of Columbia for 
     fiscal year 2018 under this heading shall not exceed the 
     estimates included in D.C. Bill 22-242, as amended as of the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, or the sum of the total 
     revenues of the District of Columbia for such fiscal year:  
     Provided further, That the amount appropriated may be 
     increased by proceeds of one-time transactions, which are 
     expended for emergency or unanticipated operating or capital 
     needs:  Provided further, That such increases shall be 
     approved by enactment of local District law and shall comply 
     with all reserve requirements contained in the District of 
     Columbia Home Rule Act:  Provided further, That the Chief 
     Financial Officer of the District of Columbia shall take such 
     steps as are necessary to assure that the District of 
     Columbia meets these requirements, including the apportioning 
     by the Chief Financial Officer of the appropriations and 
     funds made available to the District during fiscal year 2018, 
     except that the Chief Financial Officer may not reprogram for 
     operating expenses any funds derived from

[[Page H6895]]

     bonds, notes, or other obligations issued for capital 
     projects.
       This title may be cited as the ``District of Columbia 
     Appropriations Act, 2018''.

                                TITLE V

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

             Administrative Conference of the United States

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Administrative Conference of 
     the United States, authorized by 5 U.S.C. 591 et seq., 
     $3,100,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019, of 
     which not to exceed $1,000 is for official reception and 
     representation expenses.

                   Consumer Product Safety Commission

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Consumer Product Safety 
     Commission, including hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
     services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for 
     individuals not to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to the 
     maximum rate payable under 5 U.S.C. 5376, purchase of nominal 
     awards to recognize non-Federal officials' contributions to 
     Commission activities, and not to exceed $4,000 for official 
     reception and representation expenses, $123,000,000.

     administrative provisions--consumer product safety commission

       Sec. 501.  During fiscal year 2018, none of the amounts 
     made available by this Act may be used to finalize or 
     implement the Safety Standard for Recreational Off-Highway 
     Vehicles published by the Consumer Product Safety Commission 
     in the Federal Register on November 19, 2014 (79 Fed. Reg. 
     68964) until after--
       (1) the National Academy of Sciences, in consultation with 
     the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and the 
     Department of Defense, completes a study to determine--
       (A) the technical validity of the lateral stability and 
     vehicle handling requirements proposed by such standard for 
     purposes of reducing the risk of Recreational Off-Highway 
     Vehicle (referred to in this section as ``ROV'') rollovers in 
     the off-road environment, including the repeatability and 
     reproducibility of testing for compliance with such 
     requirements;
       (B) the number of ROV rollovers that would be prevented if 
     the proposed requirements were adopted;
       (C) whether there is a technical basis for the proposal to 
     provide information on a point-of-sale hangtag about a ROV's 
     rollover resistance on a progressive scale; and
       (D) the effect on the utility of ROVs used by the United 
     States military if the proposed requirements were adopted; 
     and
       (2) a report containing the results of the study completed 
     under paragraph (1) is delivered to--
       (A) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
     of the Senate;
       (B) the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
     Representatives;
       (C) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
       (D) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives.
       Sec. 502.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may 
     be used to finalize any rule by the Consumer Product Safety 
     Commission relating to blade-contact injuries on table saws.

                     Election Assistance Commission

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For necessary expenses to carry out the Help America Vote 
     Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-252; 52 U.S.C. 20901 et seq.), 
     $7,000,000, of which $1,500,000 shall be transferred to the 
     National Institute of Standards and Technology for election 
     reform activities authorized under such Act.

                   Federal Communications Commission

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Federal Communications 
     Commission, as authorized by law, including uniforms and 
     allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; not 
     to exceed $4,000 for official reception and representation 
     expenses; purchase and hire of motor vehicles; special 
     counsel fees; and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
     $322,035,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
     That $322,035,000 of offsetting collections shall be assessed 
     and collected pursuant to section 9 of title I of the 
     Communications Act of 1934, shall be retained and used for 
     necessary expenses and shall remain available until expended: 
      Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated shall be 
     reduced as such offsetting collections are received during 
     fiscal year 2018 so as to result in a final fiscal year 2018 
     appropriation estimated at $0:  Provided further, That any 
     offsetting collections received in excess of $322,035,000 in 
     fiscal year 2018 shall not be available for obligation:  
     Provided further, That remaining offsetting collections from 
     prior years collected in excess of the amount specified for 
     collection in each such year and otherwise becoming available 
     on October 1, 2017, shall not be available for obligation:  
     Provided further, That, notwithstanding 47 U.S.C. 
     309(j)(8)(B), proceeds from the use of a competitive bidding 
     system that may be retained and made available for obligation 
     shall not exceed $111,150,000 for fiscal year 2018:  Provided 
     further, That, of the amount appropriated under this heading, 
     not less than $11,020,000 shall be for the salaries and 
     expenses of the Office of Inspector General.

                 Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

                    office of the inspector general

       For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
     in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act 
     of 1978, $39,136,000, to be derived from the Deposit 
     Insurance Fund or, only when appropriate, the FSLIC 
     Resolution Fund.

                      Federal Election Commission

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the 
     Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971, $71,250,000, of which 
     not to exceed $5,000 shall be available for reception and 
     representation expenses.

                   Federal Labor Relations Authority

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the 
     Federal Labor Relations Authority, pursuant to Reorganization 
     Plan Numbered 2 of 1978, and the Civil Service Reform Act of 
     1978, $26,200,000, including services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
     3109, and including hire of experts and consultants, hire of 
     passenger motor vehicles, and rental of conference rooms in 
     the District of Columbia and elsewhere; and of which not to 
     exceed $1,500 shall be available for official reception and 
     representation expenses:  Provided, That public members of 
     the Federal Service Impasses Panel may be paid travel 
     expenses and per diem in lieu of subsistence as authorized by 
     law (5 U.S.C. 5703) for persons employed intermittently in 
     the Government service, and compensation as authorized by 5 
     U.S.C. 3109:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding 31 
     U.S.C. 3302, funds received from fees charged to non-Federal 
     participants at labor-management relations conferences shall 
     be credited to and merged with this account, to be available 
     without further appropriation for the costs of carrying out 
     these conferences.

                        Federal Trade Commission

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Federal Trade Commission, 
     including uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 
     U.S.C. 5901-5902; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; 
     hire of passenger motor vehicles; and not to exceed $2,000 
     for official reception and representation expenses, 
     $306,317,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
     That not to exceed $300,000 shall be available for use to 
     contract with a person or persons for collection services in 
     accordance with the terms of 31 U.S.C. 3718:  Provided 
     further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     not to exceed $126,000,000 of offsetting collections derived 
     from fees collected for premerger notification filings under 
     the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 (15 
     U.S.C. 18a), regardless of the year of collection, shall be 
     retained and used for necessary expenses in this 
     appropriation:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding any 
     other provision of law, not to exceed $16,000,000 in 
     offsetting collections derived from fees sufficient to 
     implement and enforce the Telemarketing Sales Rule, 
     promulgated under the Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and 
     Abuse Prevention Act (15 U.S.C. 6101 et seq.), shall be 
     credited to this account, and be retained and used for 
     necessary expenses in this appropriation:  Provided further, 
     That the sum herein appropriated from the general fund shall 
     be reduced as such offsetting collections are received during 
     fiscal year 2018, so as to result in a final fiscal year 2018 
     appropriation from the general fund estimated at not more 
     than $164,317,000:  Provided further, That none of the funds 
     made available to the Federal Trade Commission may be used to 
     implement subsection (e)(2)(B) of section 43 of the Federal 
     Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1831t).

                    GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION

                        Real Property Activities

                         Federal Buildings Fund

                 Limitations on Availability of Revenue

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Amounts in the Fund, including revenues and collections 
     deposited into the Fund, shall be available for necessary 
     expenses of real property management and related activities 
     not otherwise provided for, including operation, maintenance, 
     and protection of federally owned and leased buildings; 
     rental of buildings in the District of Columbia; restoration 
     of leased premises; moving governmental agencies (including 
     space adjustments and telecommunications relocation expenses) 
     in connection with the assignment, allocation, and transfer 
     of space; contractual services incident to cleaning or 
     servicing buildings, and moving; repair and alteration of 
     federally owned buildings, including grounds, approaches, and 
     appurtenances; care and safeguarding of sites; maintenance, 
     preservation, demolition, and equipment; acquisition of 
     buildings and sites by purchase, condemnation, or as 
     otherwise authorized by law; acquisition of options to 
     purchase buildings and sites; conversion and extension of 
     federally owned buildings; preliminary planning and design of 
     projects by contract or otherwise; construction of new 
     buildings (including equipment for such buildings); and 
     payment of principal, interest, and any other obligations for 
     public buildings acquired by installment purchase and 
     purchase contract; in the aggregate amount of $7,864,111,000, 
     of which--
       (1) $0 shall remain available until expended for 
     construction and acquisition (including funds for sites and 
     expenses, and associated design and construction services);
       (2) $180,000,000 shall remain available until expended for 
     repairs and alterations, including associated design and 
     construction services, of which--
       (A) $0 is for Major Repairs and Alterations;
       (B) $110,000,000 is for Basic Repairs and Alterations;
       (C) $70,000,000 is for Special Emphasis Programs of which--
       (i) $20,000,000 is for Judiciary Capital Security;
       (ii) $30,000,000 is for Fire and Life Safety; and
       (iii) $20,000,000 is for Consolidation Activities:  
     Provided, That consolidation projects result in

[[Page H6896]]

     reduced annual rent paid by the tenant agency:  Provided 
     further, That no consolidation project exceed $10,000,000 in 
     costs:  Provided further, That consolidation projects are 
     approved by each of the committees specified in section 
     3307(a) of title 40, United States Code:  Provided further, 
     That preference is given to consolidation projects that 
     achieve a utilization rate of 130 usable square feet or less 
     per person for office space:  Provided further, That the 
     obligation of funds under this paragraph for consolidation 
     activities may not be made until 10 days after a proposed 
     spending plan and explanation for each project to be 
     undertaken, including estimated savings, has been submitted 
     to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate:

       Provided, That funds made available in this or any previous 
     Act in the Federal Buildings Fund for Repairs and Alterations 
     shall, for prospectus projects, be limited to the amount 
     identified for each project, except each project in this or 
     any previous Act may be increased by an amount not to exceed 
     10 percent unless advance approval is obtained from the 
     Committees on Appropriations of a greater amount:  Provided 
     further, That additional projects for which prospectuses have 
     been fully approved may be funded under this category only if 
     advance approval is obtained from the Committees on 
     Appropriations:  Provided further, That the amounts provided 
     in this or any prior Act for ``Repairs and Alterations'' may 
     be used to fund costs associated with implementing security 
     improvements to buildings necessary to meet the minimum 
     standards for security in accordance with current law and in 
     compliance with the reprogramming guidelines of the 
     appropriate Committees of the House and Senate:  Provided 
     further, That the difference between the funds appropriated 
     and expended on any projects in this or any prior Act, under 
     the heading ``Repairs and Alterations'', may be transferred 
     to Basic Repairs and Alterations or used to fund authorized 
     increases in prospectus projects:  Provided further, That the 
     amount provided in this or any prior Act for Basic Repairs 
     and Alterations may be used to pay claims against the 
     Government arising from any projects under the heading 
     ``Repairs and Alterations'' or used to fund authorized 
     increases in prospectus projects;
       (3) $5,462,345,000 for rental of space to remain available 
     until expended; and
       (4) $2,221,766,000 for building operations to remain 
     available until expended, of which $1,146,089,000 is for 
     building services, and $1,075,677,000 is for salaries and 
     expenses:  Provided, That not to exceed 5 percent of any 
     appropriation made available under this paragraph for 
     building operations may be transferred between and merged 
     with such appropriations upon notification to the Committees 
     on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
     Senate, but no such appropriation shall be increased by more 
     than 5 percent by any such transfers:  Provided further, That 
     section 521 of this title shall not apply with respect to 
     funds made available under this heading for building 
     operations:  Provided further, That the total amount of funds 
     made available from this Fund to the General Services 
     Administration shall not be available for expenses of any 
     construction, repair, alteration and acquisition project for 
     which a prospectus, if required by 40 U.S.C. 3307(a), has not 
     been approved, except that necessary funds may be expended 
     for each project for required expenses for the development of 
     a proposed prospectus:  Provided further, That funds 
     available in the Federal Buildings Fund may be expended for 
     emergency repairs when advance approval is obtained from the 
     Committees on Appropriations:  Provided further, That amounts 
     necessary to provide reimbursable special services to other 
     agencies under 40 U.S.C. 592(b)(2) and amounts to provide 
     such reimbursable fencing, lighting, guard booths, and other 
     facilities on private or other property not in Government 
     ownership or control as may be appropriate to enable the 
     United States Secret Service to perform its protective 
     functions pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3056, shall be available from 
     such revenues and collections:  Provided further, That 
     revenues and collections and any other sums accruing to this 
     Fund during fiscal year 2018, excluding reimbursements under 
     40 U.S.C. 592(b)(2), in excess of the aggregate new 
     obligational authority authorized for Real Property 
     Activities of the Federal Buildings Fund in this Act shall 
     remain in the Fund and shall not be available for expenditure 
     except as authorized in appropriations Acts.

                           General Activities

                         Government-wide Policy

       For expenses authorized by law, not otherwise provided for, 
     for Government-wide policy and evaluation activities 
     associated with the management of real and personal property 
     assets and certain administrative services; Government-wide 
     policy support responsibilities relating to acquisition, 
     travel, motor vehicles, information technology management, 
     and related technology activities; and services as authorized 
     by 5 U.S.C. 3109; $53,499,000.

                           Operating Expenses

       For expenses authorized by law, not otherwise provided for, 
     for Government-wide activities associated with utilization 
     and donation of surplus personal property; disposal of real 
     property; agency-wide policy direction, management, and 
     communications; and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; 
     $45,645,000, of which $24,357,000 is for Real and Personal 
     Property Management and Disposal; $21,288,000 is for the 
     Office of the Administrator, of which not to exceed $7,500 is 
     for official reception and representation expenses.

                   Civilian Board of Contract Appeals

       For expenses authorized by law, not otherwise provided for, 
     for the activities associated with the Civilian Board of 
     Contract Appeals, $8,795,000.

                      Office of Inspector General

       For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
     and service authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $65,000,000:  
     Provided, That not to exceed $50,000 shall be available for 
     payment for information and detection of fraud against the 
     Government, including payment for recovery of stolen 
     Government property:  Provided further, That not to exceed 
     $2,500 shall be available for awards to employees of other 
     Federal agencies and private citizens in recognition of 
     efforts and initiatives resulting in enhanced Office of 
     Inspector General effectiveness.

           Allowances and Office Staff for Former Presidents

       For carrying out the provisions of the Act of August 25, 
     1958 (3 U.S.C. 102 note), and Public Law 95-138, $4,754,000.

                     Federal Citizen Services Fund

                     (including Transfers of Funds)

       For necessary expenses of the Office of Products and 
     Programs, including services authorized by 40 U.S.C. 323 and 
     44 U.S.C. 3604; and for necessary expenses in support of 
     interagency projects that enable the Federal Government to 
     enhance its ability to conduct activities electronically, 
     through the development and implementation of innovative uses 
     of information technology; $53,741,000, to be deposited into 
     the Federal Citizen Services Fund:  Provided, That the 
     previous amount may be transferred to Federal agencies to 
     carry out the purpose of the Federal Citizen Services Fund:  
     Provided further, That the appropriations, revenues, 
     reimbursements, and collections deposited into the Fund shall 
     be available until expended for necessary expenses of Federal 
     Citizen Services and other activities that enable the Federal 
     Government to enhance its ability to conduct activities 
     electronically: in the aggregate amount not to exceed 
     $100,000,000:  Provided further, That appropriations, 
     revenues, reimbursements, and collections accruing to this 
     Fund during fiscal year 2018 in excess of such amount shall 
     remain in the Fund and shall not be available for expenditure 
     except as authorized in appropriations Acts:  Provided 
     further, That any appropriations provided to the Electronic 
     Government Fund that remain unobligated may be transferred to 
     the Federal Citizen Services Fund:  Provided further, That 
     the transfer authorities provided herein shall be in addition 
     to any other transfer authority provided in this Act.

                Asset Proceeds and Space Management Fund

       For carrying out the purposes of the Federal Assets Sale 
     and Transfer Act of 2016 (Public Law 114-287), $10,000,000, 
     to be deposited into the Asset Proceeds and Space Management 
     Fund, to remain available until expended.

                 Environmental Review Improvement Fund

       For necessary expenses of the Environmental Review 
     Improvement Fund established under section 41009(d) of the 
     Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act (42 U.S.C. 4370m-
     8(d)), $1,000,000, to remain available until expended.

       Administrative Provisions--General Services Administration

              (including Rescission and Transfer of Funds)

       Sec. 510.  Funds available to the General Services 
     Administration shall be available for the hire of passenger 
     motor vehicles.
       Sec. 511.  Funds in the Federal Buildings Fund made 
     available for fiscal year 2018 for Federal Buildings Fund 
     activities may be transferred between such activities only to 
     the extent necessary to meet program requirements:  Provided, 
     That any proposed transfers shall be approved in advance by 
     the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate.
       Sec. 512.  Except as otherwise provided in this title, 
     funds made available by this Act shall be used to transmit a 
     fiscal year 2019 request for United States Courthouse 
     construction only if the request: (1) meets the design guide 
     standards for construction as established and approved by the 
     General Services Administration, the Judicial Conference of 
     the United States, and the Office of Management and Budget; 
     (2) reflects the priorities of the Judicial Conference of the 
     United States as set out in its approved Courthouse Project 
     Priorities plan; and (3) includes a standardized courtroom 
     utilization study of each facility to be constructed, 
     replaced, or expanded.
       Sec. 513.  None of the funds provided in this Act may be 
     used to increase the amount of occupiable square feet, 
     provide cleaning services, security enhancements, or any 
     other service usually provided through the Federal Buildings 
     Fund, to any agency that does not pay the rate per square 
     foot assessment for space and services as determined by the 
     General Services Administration in consideration of the 
     Public Buildings Amendments Act of 1972 (Public Law 92-313).
       Sec. 514.  From funds made available under the heading 
     ``Federal Buildings Fund, Limitations on Availability of 
     Revenue'', claims against the Government of less than 
     $250,000 arising from direct construction projects and 
     acquisition of buildings may be liquidated from savings 
     effected in other construction projects with prior 
     notification to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
     of Representatives and the Senate.
       Sec. 515.  In any case in which the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
     Representatives and the Committee on Environment and Public 
     Works of the Senate adopt a resolution granting lease 
     authority pursuant to a prospectus transmitted to Congress by 
     the Administrator of the General Services Administration 
     under 40 U.S.C. 3307, the Administrator shall ensure that the 
     delineated area of

[[Page H6897]]

     procurement is identical to the delineated area included in 
     the prospectus for all lease agreements, except that, if the 
     Administrator determines that the delineated area of the 
     procurement should not be identical to the delineated area 
     included in the prospectus, the Administrator shall provide 
     an explanatory statement to each of such committees and the 
     Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
     and the Senate prior to exercising any lease authority 
     provided in the resolution.
       Sec. 516.  With respect to each project funded under the 
     heading ``Major Repairs and Alterations'' or ``Judiciary 
     Capital Security Program'', and with respect to E-Government 
     projects funded under the heading ``Federal Citizen Services 
     Fund'', the Administrator of General Services shall submit a 
     spending plan and explanation for each project to be 
     undertaken to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
     of Representatives and the Senate not later than 60 days 
     after the date of enactment of this Act.
       Sec. 517.  Section 16 of the Federal Assets Sale and 
     Transfer Act of 2016 (Public Law 114-287) is amended--
       (1) by inserting the following at the end of subparagraph 
     (a)(1): ``The Account shall be under the custody and control 
     of the Chairperson of the Board and deposits in the Account 
     shall remain available until expended.'';
       (2) by striking subparagraph (b)(1) and inserting in lieu 
     thereof the following: (1) ``ESTABLISHMENT. -- There is 
     established in the Treasury of the United States an account 
     to be known as the "Public Buildings Reform Board - Asset 
     Proceeds and Space Management Fund'' (in this subsection 
     referred to as the "Fund"). The Fund shall be under the 
     custody and control of the Administrator of General Services 
     and deposits in the Fund shall remain available until 
     expended.
       Sec. 518.  The unobligated balance of amounts provided for 
     National Capital Region, FBI Headquarters Consolidation, in 
     paragraph (1)(A) under the heading ``General Services 
     Administration--Federal Buildings Fund'' in division E of 
     Public Law 115-31 is rescinded.
       Sec. 519.  The Administrator of General Services shall make 
     available to the public on the website of the General 
     Services Administration any draft environmental assessment--
       (1) prepared by the Administrator of General Services under 
     section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 
     1969 (42 U.S.C. 4332(2)(C)); and
       (2) for which the Administrator of General Services has 
     solicited public comment.

                 Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation

                         salaries and expenses

       For payment to the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation 
     Trust Fund, established by section 10 of Public Law 93-642, 
     $1,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                     Merit Systems Protection Board

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Merit 
     Systems Protection Board pursuant to Reorganization Plan 
     Numbered 2 of 1978, the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, and 
     the Whistleblower Protection Act of 1989 (5 U.S.C. 5509 
     note), including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
     rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia and 
     elsewhere, hire of passenger motor vehicles, direct 
     procurement of survey printing, and not to exceed $2,000 for 
     official reception and representation expenses, $44,490,000, 
     to remain available until September 30, 2019, and in addition 
     not to exceed $2,345,000, to remain available until September 
     30, 2019, for administrative expenses to adjudicate 
     retirement appeals to be transferred from the Civil Service 
     Retirement and Disability Fund in amounts determined by the 
     Merit Systems Protection Board.

              National Archives and Records Administration

                           operating expenses

       For necessary expenses in connection with the 
     administration of the National Archives and Records 
     Administration and archived Federal records and related 
     activities, as provided by law, and for expenses necessary 
     for the review and declassification of documents, the 
     activities of the Public Interest Declassification Board, the 
     operations and maintenance of the electronic records 
     archives, the hire of passenger motor vehicles, and for 
     uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 
     U.S.C. 5901), including maintenance, repairs, and cleaning, 
     $364,308,000.

                      office of inspector general

       For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
     in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General 
     Reform Act of 2008, Public Law 110-409, 122 Stat. 4302-16 
     (2008), and the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. 
     App.), and for the hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
     $4,241,000.

                        repairs and restoration

       For the repair, alteration, and improvement of archives 
     facilities, and to provide adequate storage for holdings, 
     $7,500,000, to remain available until expended.

        National Historical Publications and Records Commission

                             grants program

       For necessary expenses for allocations and grants for 
     historical publications and records as authorized by 44 
     U.S.C. 2504, $4,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                  National Credit Union Administration

               community development revolving loan fund

       For the Community Development Revolving Loan Fund program 
     as authorized by 42 U.S.C. 9812, 9822 and 9910, $2,000,000 
     shall be available until September 30, 2019, for technical 
     assistance to low-income designated credit unions.

                      Office of Government Ethics

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office 
     of Government Ethics pursuant to the Ethics in Government Act 
     of 1978, the Ethics Reform Act of 1989, and the Stop Trading 
     on Congressional Knowledge Act of 2012, including services as 
     authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, rental of conference rooms in 
     the District of Columbia and elsewhere, hire of passenger 
     motor vehicles, and not to exceed $1,500 for official 
     reception and representation expenses, $16,439,000.

                     Office of Personnel Management

                         salaries and expenses

                  (including transfer of trust funds)

       For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office 
     of Personnel Management (OPM) pursuant to Reorganization Plan 
     Numbered 2 of 1978 and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, 
     including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; medical 
     examinations performed for veterans by private physicians on 
     a fee basis; rental of conference rooms in the District of 
     Columbia and elsewhere; hire of passenger motor vehicles; not 
     to exceed $2,500 for official reception and representation 
     expenses; advances for reimbursements to applicable funds of 
     OPM and the Federal Bureau of Investigation for expenses 
     incurred under Executive Order No. 10422 of January 9, 1953, 
     as amended; and payment of per diem or subsistence allowances 
     to employees where Voting Rights Act activities require an 
     employee to remain overnight at his or her post of duty, 
     $129,341,000: Provided, That of the total amount made 
     available under this heading, $18,000,000 shall remain 
     available until expended for information technology 
     infrastructure modernization and Trust Fund Federal Financial 
     System migration or modernization: Provided further, That the 
     amount made available by the previous proviso may not be 
     obligated until the Director of the Office of Personnel 
     Management submits to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
     Senate and the House of Representatives a plan for 
     expenditure of such amount, prepared in consultation with the 
     Director of the Office of Management and Budget, the 
     Administrator of the United States Digital Service, and the 
     Secretary of Homeland Security, that--
       (1) identifies the full scope and cost of the IT systems 
     remediation and stabilization project;
       (2) meets the capital planning and investment control 
     review requirements established by the Office of Management 
     and Budget, including Circular A-11;
       (3) includes a Major IT Business Case under the 
     requirements established by the Office of Management and 
     Budget Exhibit 300;
       (4) complies with the acquisition rules, requirements, 
     guidelines, and systems acquisition management practices of 
     the Government;
       (5) complies with all Office of Management and Budget, 
     Department of Homeland Security and National Institute of 
     Standards and Technology requirements related to securing the 
     agency's information system as described in 44 U.S.C. 3554; 
     and
       (6) is reviewed and commented upon within 90 days of plan 
     development by the Inspector General of the Office of 
     Personnel Management, and such comments are submitted to the 
     Director of the Office of Personnel Management before the 
     date of such submission: 

      Provided further, That, not later than 6 months after the 
     date of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall 
     submit to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and 
     the House of Representatives a report that--
       
       (A) evaluates--
       (i) the steps taken by the Office of Personnel Management 
     to prevent, mitigate, and respond to data breaches involving 
     sensitive personnel records and information;
       (ii) the Office's cybersecurity policies and procedures in 
     place on the date of enactment of this Act, including 
     policies and procedures relating to IT best practices such as 
     data encryption, multifactor authentication, and continuous 
     monitoring;
       (iii) the Office's oversight of contractors providing IT 
     services; and
       (iv) the Office's compliance with government-wide 
     initiatives to improve cybersecurity; and
       (B) sets forth improvements that could be made to assist 
     the Office of Personnel Management in addressing 
     cybersecurity challenges:

     Provided further, That of the total amount made available 
     under this heading, $584,000 may be made available for 
     strengthening the capacity and capabilities of the 
     acquisition workforce (as defined by the Office of Federal 
     Procurement Policy Act, as amended (41 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.)), 
     including the recruitment, hiring, training, and retention of 
     such workforce and information technology in support of 
     acquisition workforce effectiveness or for management 
     solutions to improve acquisition management; and in addition 
     $131,414,000 for administrative expenses, to be transferred 
     from the appropriate trust funds of OPM without regard to 
     other statutes, including direct procurement of printed 
     materials, for the retirement and insurance programs: 
     Provided further, That the provisions of this appropriation 
     shall not affect the authority to use applicable trust funds 
     as provided by sections 8348(a)(1)(B), 8958(f)(2)(A), 
     8988(f)(2)(A), and 9004(f)(2)(A) of title 5, United States 
     Code: Provided further, That no part of this appropriation 
     shall be available for salaries and expenses of the Legal 
     Examining Unit of OPM established pursuant to

[[Page H6898]]

     Executive Order No. 9358 of July 1, 1943, or any successor 
     unit of like purpose: Provided further, That the President's 
     Commission on White House Fellows, established by Executive 
     Order No. 11183 of October 3, 1964, may, during fiscal year 
     2018, accept donations of money, property, and personal 
     services: Provided further, That such donations, including 
     those from prior years, may be used for the development of 
     publicity materials to provide information about the White 
     House Fellows, except that no such donations shall be 
     accepted for travel or reimbursement of travel expenses, or 
     for the salaries of employees of such Commission.

                      office of inspector general

                         salaries and expenses

                  (including transfer of trust funds)

       For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
     in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act 
     of 1978, including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
     hire of passenger motor vehicles, $5,000,000, and in 
     addition, not to exceed $25,000,000 for administrative 
     expenses to audit, investigate, and provide other oversight 
     of the Office of Personnel Management's retirement and 
     insurance programs, to be transferred from the appropriate 
     trust funds of the Office of Personnel Management, as 
     determined by the Inspector General:  Provided, That the 
     Inspector General is authorized to rent conference rooms in 
     the District of Columbia and elsewhere.

                       Office of Special Counsel

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office 
     of Special Counsel pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 
     of 1978, the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-
     454), the Whistleblower Protection Act of 1989 (Public Law 
     101-12) as amended by Public Law 107-304, the Whistleblower 
     Protection Enhancement Act of 2012 (Public Law 112-199), and 
     the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act 
     of 1994 (Public Law 103-353), including services as 
     authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, payment of fees and expenses for 
     witnesses, rental of conference rooms in the District of 
     Columbia and elsewhere, and hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
     $24,750,000.

                      Postal Regulatory Commission

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For necessary expenses of the Postal Regulatory Commission 
     in carrying out the provisions of the Postal Accountability 
     and Enhancement Act (Public Law 109-435), $15,200,000, to be 
     derived by transfer from the Postal Service Fund and expended 
     as authorized by section 603(a) of such Act.

              Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Privacy and Civil Liberties 
     Oversight Board, as authorized by section 1061 of the 
     Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (42 
     U.S.C. 2000ee), $8,000,000, to remain available until 
     September 30, 2019.

                     Public Buildings Reform Board

                         salaries and expenses

       For salaries and expenses of the Public Buildings Reform 
     Board in carrying out the Federal Assets Sale and Transfer 
     Act of 2016 (Public Law 114-287), $5,000,000, to remain 
     available until expended.

                   Securities and Exchange Commission

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses for the Securities and Exchange 
     Commission, including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
     3109, the rental of space (to include multiple year leases) 
     in the District of Columbia and elsewhere, and not to exceed 
     $3,500 for official reception and representation expenses, 
     $1,652,000,000 to remain available until expended; of which 
     funding for information technology initiatives shall be 
     increased over the fiscal year 2017 level by not less than 
     $50,000,000; of which not less than $14,748,358 shall be for 
     the Office of Inspector General; of which not to exceed 
     $75,000 shall be available for a permanent secretariat for 
     the International Organization of Securities Commissions; of 
     which not to exceed $100,000 shall be available for expenses 
     for consultations and meetings hosted by the Commission with 
     foreign governmental and other regulatory officials, members 
     of their delegations and staffs to exchange views concerning 
     securities matters, such expenses to include necessary 
     logistic and administrative expenses and the expenses of 
     Commission staff and foreign invitees in attendance 
     including: (1) incidental expenses such as meals; (2) travel 
     and transportation; and (3) related lodging or subsistence; 
     and of which not less than $68,950,000 shall be for the 
     Division of Economic and Risk Analysis: In addition, for 
     costs associated with relocation under a replacement lease 
     for the Commission's headquarters facilities, not to exceed 
     $244,507,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019. 
     For purposes of calculating the fee rate under section 31(j) 
     of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78ee(j)) 
     for fiscal year 2018, all amounts appropriated under this 
     heading shall be deemed to be the regular appropriation to 
     the Commission for fiscal year 2018.  Provided, That fees and 
     charges authorized by section 31 of the Securities Exchange 
     Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78ee) shall be credited to this 
     account as offsetting collections:  Provided further, That 
     not to exceed $1,652,000,000 of such offsetting collections 
     shall be available until expended for necessary expenses of 
     this account and not to exceed $244,507,000 of such 
     offsetting collections shall be available until September 30, 
     2019, for costs under this heading associated with relocation 
     under a replacement lease for the Commission's headquarters 
     facilities:  Provided further, That the total amount 
     appropriated under this heading from the general fund for 
     fiscal year 2018 shall be reduced as such offsetting fees are 
     received so as to result in a final total fiscal year 2018 
     appropriation from the general fund estimated at not more 
     than $0:  Provided further, That if any amount of the 
     appropriation under this heading for costs associated with 
     relocation under a replacement lease for the Commission's 
     headquarters facilities is subsequently de-obligated on or 
     before September 30, 2019, any such amount derived from the 
     general fund shall be returned to the general fund, and any 
     such amount derived from fees or assessments collected for 
     such purpose shall be paid to each national securities 
     exchange and national securities association, respectively, 
     in proportion to any fees or assessments paid by such 
     national securities exchange or national securities 
     association under such section 31 in fiscal year 2018.

                        Selective Service System

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Selective Service System, 
     including expenses of attendance at meetings and of training 
     for uniformed personnel assigned to the Selective Service 
     System, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 4101-4118 for civilian 
     employees; hire of passenger motor vehicles; services as 
     authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; and not to exceed $750 for 
     official reception and representation expenses; $22,900,000:  
     Provided, That during the current fiscal year, the President 
     may exempt this appropriation from the provisions of 31 
     U.S.C. 1341, whenever the President deems such action to be 
     necessary in the interest of national defense:  Provided 
     further, That none of the funds appropriated by this Act may 
     be expended for or in connection with the induction of any 
     person into the Armed Forces of the United States.

                     Small Business Administration

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the 
     Small Business Administration, including hire of passenger 
     motor vehicles as authorized by sections 1343 and 1344 of 
     title 31, United States Code, and not to exceed $3,500 for 
     official reception and representation expenses, $265,000,000 
     of which not less than $12,000,000 shall be available for 
     examinations, reviews, and other lender oversight activities: 
      Provided, That the Administrator is authorized to charge 
     fees to cover the cost of publications developed by the Small 
     Business Administration, and certain loan program activities, 
     including fees authorized by section 5(b) of the Small 
     Business Act:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding 31 
     U.S.C. 3302, revenues received from all such activities shall 
     be credited to this account, to remain available until 
     expended, for carrying out these purposes without further 
     appropriations:  Provided further, That the Small Business 
     Administration may accept gifts in an amount not to exceed 
     $4,000,000 and may co-sponsor activities, each in accordance 
     with section 132(a) of division K of Public Law 108-447, 
     during fiscal year 2018 :  Provided further, That $6,100,000 
     shall be available for the Loan Modernization and Accounting 
     System, to be available until September 30, 2019.

                  entrepreneurial development programs

       For necessary expenses of programs supporting 
     entrepreneurial and small business development, $211,100,000, 
     to remain available until September 30, 2019 :  Provided, 
     That $120,000,000 shall be available to fund grants for 
     performance in fiscal year 2018 or fiscal year 2019 as 
     authorized by section 21 of the Small Business Act:  Provided 
     further, That $31,000,000 shall be for marketing, management, 
     and technical assistance under section 7(m) of the Small 
     Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(m)(4)) by intermediaries that 
     make microloans under the microloan program:  Provided 
     further, That $10,000,000 shall be available for grants to 
     States to carry out export programs that assist small 
     business concerns authorized under section 22(l) of the Small 
     Business Act (15 U.S.C. 649(l)).

                      office of inspector general

       For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
     in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act 
     of 1978, $19,900,000.

                           office of advocacy

       For necessary expenses of the Office of Advocacy in 
     carrying out the provisions of title II of Public Law 94-305 
     (15 U.S.C. 634a et seq.) and the Regulatory Flexibility Act 
     of 1980 (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq.), $9,120,000, to remain 
     available until expended.

                     business loans program account

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For the cost of direct loans, $3,438,172, to remain 
     available until expended:  Provided, That such costs, 
     including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as 
     defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
     1974:  Provided further, That subject to section 502 of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974, during fiscal year 2018 
     commitments to guarantee loans under section 503 of the Small 
     Business Investment Act of 1958 shall not exceed 
     $7,500,000,000:  Provided further, That during fiscal year 
     2018 commitments for general business loans authorized under 
     section 7(a)

[[Page H6899]]

     of the Small Business Act shall not exceed $29,000,000,000 
     for a combination of amortizing term loans and the aggregated 
     maximum line of credit provided by revolving loans:  Provided 
     further, That during fiscal year 2018 commitments for loans 
     authorized under subparagraph (C) of section 502(7) of The 
     Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 696(7)) 
     shall not exceed $7,500,000,000:  Provided further, That 
     during fiscal year 2018 commitments to guarantee loans for 
     debentures under section 303(b) of the Small Business 
     Investment Act of 1958 shall not exceed $4,000,000,000:  
     Provided further, That during fiscal year 2018, guarantees of 
     trust certificates authorized by section 5(g) of the Small 
     Business Act shall not exceed a principal amount of 
     $12,000,000,000. In addition, for administrative expenses to 
     carry out the direct and guaranteed loan programs, 
     $152,782,000, which may be transferred to and merged with the 
     appropriations for Salaries and Expenses.

                     disaster loans program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

       For administrative expenses to carry out the direct loan 
     program authorized by section 7(b) of the Small Business Act, 
     $186,458,000, to be available until expended, of which 
     $1,000,000 is for the Office of Inspector General of the 
     Small Business Administration for audits and reviews of 
     disaster loans and the disaster loan programs and shall be 
     transferred to and merged with the appropriations for the 
     Office of Inspector General; of which $176,458,000 is for 
     direct administrative expenses of loan making and servicing 
     to carry out the direct loan program, which may be 
     transferred to and merged with the appropriations for 
     Salaries and Expenses; and of which $9,000,000 is for 
     indirect administrative expenses for the direct loan program, 
     which may be transferred to and merged with the 
     appropriations for Salaries and Expenses.

        administrative provisions--small business administration

              (including rescission and transfer of funds)

       Sec. 520.  Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation 
     made available for the current fiscal year for the Small 
     Business Administration in this Act may be transferred 
     between such appropriations, but no such appropriation shall 
     be increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers:  
     Provided, That any transfer pursuant to this paragraph shall 
     be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 608 of 
     this Act and shall not be available for obligation or 
     expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set 
     forth in that section.
       Sec. 521.  Of the unobligated balances available for the 
     Immediate Disaster Assistance Program authorized by section 
     42 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 657n) and the 
     Expedited Disaster Assistance Loan Program authorized by 
     section 12085 of Public Law 110-246, $2,600,000 are hereby 
     permanently rescinded: Provided, That no amounts may be 
     rescinded from amounts that were designated by the Congress 
     as emergency requirements pursuant to a concurrent resolution 
     on the budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985: Provided further, That no amounts may be 
     rescinded from amounts that were designated by the Congress 
     as being for disaster relief pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D) 
     of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
     1985.
       Sec. 522.  Section 7(m)(4)(E) of the Small Business Act (15 
     U.S.C. 636(m)(4)(E)) is amended by striking ``25 percent'' 
     each place such term appears and inserting ``50 percent''.

                      United States Postal Service

                   payment to the postal service fund

       For payment to the Postal Service Fund for revenue forgone 
     on free and reduced rate mail, pursuant to subsections (c) 
     and (d) of section 2401 of title 39, United States Code, 
     $58,118,000:  Provided, That mail for overseas voting and 
     mail for the blind shall continue to be free:  Provided 
     further, That 6-day delivery and rural delivery of mail shall 
     continue at not less than the 1983 level:  Provided further, 
     That none of the funds made available to the Postal Service 
     by this Act shall be used to implement any rule, regulation, 
     or policy of charging any officer or employee of any State or 
     local child support enforcement agency, or any individual 
     participating in a State or local program of child support 
     enforcement, a fee for information requested or provided 
     concerning an address of a postal customer:  Provided 
     further, That none of the funds provided in this Act shall be 
     used to consolidate or close small rural and other small post 
     offices.

                      office of inspector general

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
     in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act 
     of 1978, $234,650,000, to be derived by transfer from the 
     Postal Service Fund and expended as authorized by section 
     603(b)(3) of the Postal Accountability and Enhancement Act 
     (Public Law 109-435).

                        United States Tax Court

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses, including contract reporting and 
     other services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $51,100,000, 
     of which $500,000 shall remain available until expended:  
     Provided, That travel expenses of the judges shall be paid 
     upon the written certificate of the judge.

                                TITLE VI

                      GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS ACT

                         (including rescission)

       Sec. 601.  None of the funds in this Act shall be used for 
     the planning or execution of any program to pay the expenses 
     of, or otherwise compensate, non-Federal parties intervening 
     in regulatory or adjudicatory proceedings funded in this Act.
       Sec. 602.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall 
     remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal 
     year, nor may any be transferred to other appropriations, 
     unless expressly so provided herein.
       Sec. 603.  The expenditure of any appropriation under this 
     Act for any consulting service through procurement contract 
     pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those 
     contracts where such expenditures are a matter of public 
     record and available for public inspection, except where 
     otherwise provided under existing law, or under existing 
     Executive order issued pursuant to existing law.
       Sec. 604.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality 
     of the United States Government, except pursuant to a 
     transfer made by, or transfer authority provided in, this Act 
     or any other appropriations Act.
       Sec. 605.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     shall be available for any activity or for paying the salary 
     of any Government employee where funding an activity or 
     paying a salary to a Government employee would result in a 
     decision, determination, rule, regulation, or policy that 
     would prohibit the enforcement of section 307 of the Tariff 
     Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1307).
       Sec. 606.  No funds appropriated pursuant to this Act may 
     be expended by an entity unless the entity agrees that in 
     expending the assistance the entity will comply with chapter 
     83 of title 41, United States Code.
       Sec. 607.  No funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available under this Act shall be made available to any 
     person or entity that has been convicted of violating chapter 
     83 of title 41, United States Code.
       Sec. 608.  Except as otherwise provided in this Act, none 
     of the funds provided in this Act, provided by previous 
     appropriations Acts to the agencies or entities funded in 
     this Act that remain available for obligation or expenditure 
     in fiscal year 2018, or provided from any accounts in the 
     Treasury derived by the collection of fees and available to 
     the agencies funded by this Act, shall be available for 
     obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming of funds 
     that: (1) creates a new program; (2) eliminates a program, 
     project, or activity; (3) increases funds or personnel for 
     any program, project, or activity for which funds have been 
     denied or restricted by the Congress; (4) proposes to use 
     funds directed for a specific activity by the Committee on 
     Appropriations of either the House of Representatives or the 
     Senate for a different purpose; (5) augments existing 
     programs, projects, or activities in excess of $5,000,000 or 
     10 percent, whichever is less; (6) reduces existing programs, 
     projects, or activities by $5,000,000 or 10 percent, 
     whichever is less; or (7) creates or reorganizes offices, 
     programs, or activities unless prior approval is received 
     from the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate:  Provided, That prior to any 
     significant reorganization or restructuring of offices, 
     programs, or activities, each agency or entity funded in this 
     Act shall consult with the Committees on Appropriations of 
     the House of Representatives and the Senate:  Provided 
     further, That not later than 60 days after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, each agency funded by this Act shall 
     submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
     House of Representatives and the Senate to establish the 
     baseline for application of reprogramming and transfer 
     authorities for the current fiscal year:  Provided further, 
     That at a minimum the report shall include: (1) a table for 
     each appropriation with a separate column to display the 
     President's budget request, adjustments made by Congress, 
     adjustments due to enacted rescissions, if appropriate, and 
     the fiscal year enacted level; (2) a delineation in the table 
     for each appropriation both by object class and program, 
     project, and activity as detailed in the budget appendix for 
     the respective appropriation; and (3) an identification of 
     items of special congressional interest:  Provided further, 
     That the amount appropriated or limited for salaries and 
     expenses for an agency shall be reduced by $100,000 per day 
     for each day after the required date that the report has not 
     been submitted to the Congress.
       Sec. 609.  Except as otherwise specifically provided by 
     law, not to exceed 50 percent of unobligated balances 
     remaining available at the end of fiscal year 2018 from 
     appropriations made available for salaries and expenses for 
     fiscal year 2018 in this Act, shall remain available through 
     September 30, 2019, for each such account for the purposes 
     authorized:  Provided, That a request shall be submitted to 
     the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate for approval prior to the 
     expenditure of such funds:  Provided further, That these 
     requests shall be made in compliance with reprogramming 
     guidelines.
       Sec. 610. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act 
     may be used by the Executive Office of the President to 
     request--

[[Page H6900]]

       (1) any official background investigation report on any 
     individual from the Federal Bureau of Investigation; or
       (2) a determination with respect to the treatment of an 
     organization as described in section 501(c) of the Internal 
     Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from taxation under section 
     501(a) of such Code from the Department of the Treasury or 
     the Internal Revenue Service.
       (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply--
       (1) in the case of an official background investigation 
     report, if such individual has given express written consent 
     for such request not more than 6 months prior to the date of 
     such request and during the same presidential administration; 
     or
       (2) if such request is required due to extraordinary 
     circumstances involving national security.
       Sec. 611.  The cost accounting standards promulgated under 
     chapter 15 of title 41, United States Code shall not apply 
     with respect to a contract under the Federal Employees Health 
     Benefits Program established under chapter 89 of title 5, 
     United States Code.
       Sec. 612.  For the purpose of resolving litigation and 
     implementing any settlement agreements regarding the 
     nonforeign area cost-of-living allowance program, the Office 
     of Personnel Management may accept and utilize (without 
     regard to any restriction on unanticipated travel expenses 
     imposed in an Appropriations Act) funds made available to the 
     Office of Personnel Management pursuant to court approval.
       Sec. 613.  No funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
     available to pay for an abortion, or the administrative 
     expenses in connection with any health plan under the Federal 
     employees health benefits program which provides any benefits 
     or coverage for abortions.
       Sec. 614.  The provision of section 613 shall not apply 
     where the life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus 
     were carried to term, or the pregnancy is the result of an 
     act of rape or incest.
       Sec. 615.  In order to promote Government access to 
     commercial information technology, the restriction on 
     purchasing nondomestic articles, materials, and supplies set 
     forth in chapter 83 of title 41, United States Code 
     (popularly known as the Buy American Act), shall not apply to 
     the acquisition by the Federal Government of information 
     technology (as defined in section 11101 of title 40, United 
     States Code), that is a commercial item (as defined in 
     section 103 of title 41, United States Code).
       Sec. 616.  Notwithstanding section 1353 of title 31, United 
     States Code, no officer or employee of any regulatory agency 
     or commission funded by this Act may accept on behalf of that 
     agency, nor may such agency or commission accept, payment or 
     reimbursement from a non-Federal entity for travel, 
     subsistence, or related expenses for the purpose of enabling 
     an officer or employee to attend and participate in any 
     meeting or similar function relating to the official duties 
     of the officer or employee when the entity offering payment 
     or reimbursement is a person or entity subject to regulation 
     by such agency or commission, or represents a person or 
     entity subject to regulation by such agency or commission, 
     unless the person or entity is an organization described in 
     section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and 
     exempt from tax under section 501(a) of such Code.
       Sec. 617.  Notwithstanding section 708 of this Act, funds 
     made available to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission 
     and the Securities and Exchange Commission by this or any 
     other Act may be used for the interagency funding and 
     sponsorship of a joint advisory committee to advise on 
     emerging regulatory issues.
       Sec. 618. (a)(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of 
     law, an Executive agency covered by this Act otherwise 
     authorized to enter into contracts for either leases or the 
     construction or alteration of real property for office, 
     meeting, storage, or other space must consult with the 
     General Services Administration before issuing a solicitation 
     for offers of new leases or construction contracts, and in 
     the case of succeeding leases, before entering into 
     negotiations with the current lessor.
       (2) Any such agency with authority to enter into an 
     emergency lease may do so during any period declared by the 
     President to require emergency leasing authority with respect 
     to such agency.
       (b) For purposes of this section, the term ``Executive 
     agency covered by this Act'' means any Executive agency 
     provided funds by this Act, but does not include the General 
     Services Administration or the United States Postal Service.
       Sec. 619. (a) There are appropriated for the following 
     activities the amounts required under current law:
       (1) Compensation of the President (3 U.S.C. 102).
       (2) Payments to--
       (A) the Judicial Officers' Retirement Fund (28 U.S.C. 
     377(o));
       (B) the Judicial Survivors' Annuities Fund (28 U.S.C. 
     376(c)); and
       (C) the United States Court of Federal Claims Judges' 
     Retirement Fund (28 U.S.C. 178(l)).
       (3) Payment of Government contributions--
       (A) with respect to the health benefits of retired 
     employees, as authorized by chapter 89 of title 5, United 
     States Code, and the Retired Federal Employees Health 
     Benefits Act (74 Stat. 849); and
       (B) with respect to the life insurance benefits for 
     employees retiring after December 31, 1989 (5 U.S.C. ch. 87).
       (4) Payment to finance the unfunded liability of new and 
     increased annuity benefits under the Civil Service Retirement 
     and Disability Fund (5 U.S.C. 8348).
       (5) Payment of annuities authorized to be paid from the 
     Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund by statutory 
     provisions other than subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 
     84 of title 5, United States Code.
       (b) Nothing in this section may be construed to exempt any 
     amount appropriated by this section from any otherwise 
     applicable limitation on the use of funds contained in this 
     Act.
       Sec. 620.  In fiscal year 2018 and any fiscal year 
     thereafter, none of the funds made available in this or any 
     other Act may be used by the Federal Trade Commission to 
     complete or publish the study, recommendations, or report 
     prepared by the Interagency Working Group on Food Marketed to 
     Children pursuant to the directive described on pages 983 and 
     984 of the House Appropriations Committee Print of the 
     explanatory statement accompanying the Omnibus Appropriations 
     Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-8).
       Sec. 621.  None of the funds in this Act may be used for 
     the Director of the Office of Personnel Management to award a 
     contract, enter an extension of, or exercise an option on a 
     contract to a contractor conducting the final quality review 
     processes for background investigation fieldwork services or 
     background investigation support services that, as of the 
     date of the award of the contract, are being conducted by 
     that contractor.
       Sec. 622. (a) The head of each executive branch agency 
     funded by this Act shall ensure that the Chief Information 
     Officer of the agency has the authority to participate in 
     decisions regarding the budget planning process related to 
     information technology.
       (b) Amounts appropriated for any executive branch agency 
     funded by this Act that are available for information 
     technology shall be allocated within the agency, consistent 
     with the provisions of appropriations Acts and budget 
     guidelines and recommendations from the Director of the 
     Office of Management and Budget, in such manner as specified 
     by, or approved by, the Chief Information Officer of the 
     agency in consultation with the Chief Financial Officer of 
     the agency and budget officials.
       Sec. 623.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used in contravention of chapter 29, 31, or 33 of title 
     44, United States Code.
       Sec. 624.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used by a governmental entity to require the disclosure by 
     a provider of electronic communication service to the public 
     or remote computing service of the contents of a wire or 
     electronic communication that is in electronic storage with 
     the provider (as such terms are defined in sections 2510 and 
     2711 of title 18, United States Code) in a manner that 
     violates the Fourth Amendment to the Constitution of the 
     United States.
       Sec. 625.  No funds provided in this Act shall be used to 
     deny an Inspector General funded under this Act timely access 
     to any records, documents, or other materials available to 
     the department or agency over which that Inspector General 
     has responsibilities under the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
     or to prevent or impede that Inspector General's access to 
     such records, documents, or other materials, under any 
     provision of law, except a provision of law that expressly 
     refers to the Inspector General and expressly limits the 
     Inspector General's right of access. A department or agency 
     covered by this section shall provide its Inspector General 
     with access to all such records, documents, and other 
     materials in a timely manner. Each Inspector General shall 
     ensure compliance with statutory limitations on disclosure 
     relevant to the information provided by the establishment 
     over which that Inspector General has responsibilities under 
     the Inspector General Act of 1978. Each Inspector General 
     covered by this section shall report to the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
     within 5 calendar days any failures to comply with this 
     requirement.
       Sec. 626. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act 
     may be used to maintain or establish a computer network 
     unless such network blocks the viewing, downloading, and 
     exchanging of pornography.
       (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
     necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law 
     enforcement agency or any other entity carrying out criminal 
     investigations, prosecution, adjudication activities, or 
     other law enforcement- or victim assistance-related activity.
       Sec. 627.  Section 633(a) of title VI of division E of the 
     Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2017 (Public Law 115-31) is 
     amended--
       (1) by inserting ``and'' at the end of paragraph (1);
       (2) by striking paragraph (2); and
       (3) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (2).
       Sec. 628.  The unobligated balance in the Securities and 
     Exchange Commission Reserve Fund established by section 991 
     of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection 
     Act (Public Law 111-203) are permanently rescinded.
       Sec. 629.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     shall be used by the Securities and Exchange Commission to 
     study, develop, propose, finalize, issue, or implement any 
     rule, regulation, or order regarding the disclosure of 
     political contributions to tax exempt organizations, or dues 
     paid to trade associations.

[[Page H6901]]

       Sec. 630.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to enforce the requirements in section 316(b)(4)(D) 
     of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 
     30118(b)(4)(D)) that the solicitation of contributions from 
     member corporations stockholders and executive or 
     administrative personnel, and the families of such 
     stockholders or personnel, by trade associations must be 
     separately and specifically approved by the member 
     corporation involved prior to such solicitation, and that 
     such member corporation does not approve any such 
     solicitation by more than one such trade association in any 
     calendar year.
       Sec. 631. (1) None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
     shall be available to pay for an abortion or the 
     administrative expenses in connection with a multi-State 
     qualified health plan offered under a contract under section 
     1334 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (42 
     U.S.C. 18054) which provides any benefits or coverage for 
     abortions.
       (2) The provision of paragraph (1) shall not apply where 
     the life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were 
     carried to term, or the pregnancy is the result of an act of 
     rape or incest.
       Sec. 632.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used by a governmental entity to require the disclosure by 
     a provider of electronic communication service to the public 
     or remote computing service of the contents of a wire or 
     electronic communication that is in electronic storage with 
     or otherwise stored, held, or maintained by that service 
     unless the governmental entity obtains a warrant issued upon 
     probable cause by a court of competent jurisdiction using the 
     procedures described in the Federal Rules of Criminal 
     Procedure.
       Sec. 633. (a) No funds made available by this Act shall be 
     expended on any enforcement action that--
       (1) concerns a pyramid promotional scheme other than a 
     scheme described in subsection (b); and
       (2) begins after the date of enactment of this section.
       (b) The pyramid promotional scheme described in this 
     subsection is any plan or operation in which individuals give 
     consideration for the right to receive compensation that is 
     primarily based upon recruiting other individuals into such 
     plan or operation rather than related to the--
       (1) sale of products or services to ultimate users; or
       (2) consumption by ultimate users.
       (c) It is not evidence of a pyramid promotional scheme 
     described in subsection (b) if participants in the plan or 
     operation give consideration for the right to receive 
     compensation based upon purchases of products or services by 
     participants for personal use, consumption, or resale, as 
     long as the plan or operation--
       (1) does not require inventory loading; and
       (2) implements a bona fide inventory repurchase agreement.
       (d) For purposes of this section--
       (1) the term ``bona fide inventory repurchase agreement'' 
     means a program by which a plan or operation--
       (A) promises to repurchase, on commercially reasonable 
     terms, current and marketable inventory purchased and 
     maintained by a participant for use, consumption, or resale, 
     upon request at the termination of the participant's business 
     relationship with the plan or operation; and
       (B) clearly communicates such terms in its recruiting 
     literature, sales manual, or contracts with participants, 
     including the manner in which the repurchase is to be 
     exercised and disclosure of any inventory not eligible for 
     repurchase under the program;
       (2) the term ``commercially reasonable terms'' means, with 
     respect to a repurchase of current and marketable inventory, 
     a repurchase within 12 months from the date of purchase at 
     not less than 90 percent of the original net cost to the 
     participant, less appropriate set-offs and legal claims, if 
     any;
       (3) the term ``inventory loading'' means a practice in 
     which a plan or operation--
       (A) requires or encourages its participants to purchase 
     inventory in an amount exceeding that which the participant 
     can reasonably expect to use, consume, or resell to ultimate 
     users; and
       (B) is not subject to a bona fide inventory repurchase 
     agreement; and
       (4) the term ``ultimate users'' means individuals who 
     consume or use the products or services, whether or not they 
     are participants in the plan or operation.

                               TITLE VII

                  GENERAL PROVISIONS--GOVERNMENT-WIDE

                Departments, Agencies, and Corporations

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 701.  No department, agency, or instrumentality of the 
     United States receiving appropriated funds under this or any 
     other Act for fiscal year 2018 shall obligate or expend any 
     such funds, unless such department, agency, or 
     instrumentality has in place, and will continue to administer 
     in good faith, a written policy designed to ensure that all 
     of its workplaces are free from the illegal use, possession, 
     or distribution of controlled substances (as defined in the 
     Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802)) by the officers 
     and employees of such department, agency, or instrumentality.
       Sec. 702.  Unless otherwise specifically provided, the 
     maximum amount allowable during the current fiscal year in 
     accordance with subsection 1343(c) of title 31, United States 
     Code, for the purchase of any passenger motor vehicle 
     (exclusive of buses, ambulances, law enforcement vehicles, 
     protective vehicles, and undercover surveillance vehicles), 
     is hereby fixed at $19,947 except station wagons for which 
     the maximum shall be $19,997:  Provided, That these limits 
     may be exceeded by not to exceed $7,250 for police-type 
     vehicles:  Provided further, That the limits set forth in 
     this section may not be exceeded by more than 5 percent for 
     electric or hybrid vehicles purchased for demonstration under 
     the provisions of the Electric and Hybrid Vehicle Research, 
     Development, and Demonstration Act of 1976:  Provided 
     further, That the limits set forth in this section may be 
     exceeded by the incremental cost of clean alternative fuels 
     vehicles acquired pursuant to Public Law 101-549 over the 
     cost of comparable conventionally fueled vehicles:  Provided 
     further, That the limits set forth in this section shall not 
     apply to any vehicle that is a commercial item and which 
     operates on alternative fuel, including but not limited to 
     electric, plug-in hybrid electric, and hydrogen fuel cell 
     vehicles.
       Sec. 703.  Appropriations of the executive departments and 
     independent establishments for the current fiscal year 
     available for expenses of travel, or for the expenses of the 
     activity concerned, are hereby made available for quarters 
     allowances and cost-of-living allowances, in accordance with 
     5 U.S.C. 5922-5924.
       Sec. 704.  Unless otherwise specified in law during the 
     current fiscal year, no part of any appropriation contained 
     in this or any other Act shall be used to pay the 
     compensation of any officer or employee of the Government of 
     the United States (including any agency the majority of the 
     stock of which is owned by the Government of the United 
     States) whose post of duty is in the continental United 
     States unless such person: (1) is a citizen of the United 
     States; (2) is a person who is lawfully admitted for 
     permanent residence and is seeking citizenship as outlined in 
     8 U.S.C. 1324b(a)(3)(B); (3) is a person who is admitted as a 
     refugee under 8 U.S.C. 1157 or is granted asylum under 8 
     U.S.C. 1158 and has filed a declaration of intention to 
     become a lawful permanent resident and then a citizen when 
     eligible; or (4) is a person who owes allegiance to the 
     United States:  Provided, That for purposes of this section, 
     affidavits signed by any such person shall be considered 
     prima facie evidence that the requirements of this section 
     with respect to his or her status are being complied with:  
     Provided further, That for purposes of subsections (2) and 
     (3) such affidavits shall be submitted prior to employment 
     and updated thereafter as necessary:  Provided further, That 
     any payment made to any officer or employee contrary to the 
     provisions of this section shall be recoverable in action by 
     the Federal Government:  Provided further, That this section 
     shall not apply to any person who is an officer or employee 
     of the Government of the United States on the date of 
     enactment of this Act, or to international broadcasters 
     employed by the Broadcasting Board of Governors, or to 
     temporary employment of translators, or to temporary 
     employment in the field service (not to exceed 60 days) as a 
     result of emergencies:  Provided further, That this section 
     does not apply to the employment as Wildland firefighters for 
     not more than 120 days of nonresident aliens employed by the 
     Department of the Interior or the USDA Forest Service 
     pursuant to an agreement with another country.
       Sec. 705.  Appropriations available to any department or 
     agency during the current fiscal year for necessary expenses, 
     including maintenance or operating expenses, shall also be 
     available for payment to the General Services Administration 
     for charges for space and services and those expenses of 
     renovation and alteration of buildings and facilities which 
     constitute public improvements performed in accordance with 
     the Public Buildings Act of 1959 (73 Stat. 479), the Public 
     Buildings Amendments of 1972 (86 Stat. 216), or other 
     applicable law.
       Sec. 706.  In addition to funds provided in this or any 
     other Act, all Federal agencies are authorized to receive and 
     use funds resulting from the sale of materials, including 
     Federal records disposed of pursuant to a records schedule 
     recovered through recycling or waste prevention programs. 
     Such funds shall be available until expended for the 
     following purposes:
       (1) Acquisition, waste reduction and prevention, and 
     recycling programs as described in Executive Order No. 13693 
     (March 19, 2015), including any such programs adopted prior 
     to the effective date of the Executive order.
       (2) Other Federal agency environmental management programs, 
     including, but not limited to, the development and 
     implementation of hazardous waste management and pollution 
     prevention programs.
       (3) Other employee programs as authorized by law or as 
     deemed appropriate by the head of the Federal agency.
       Sec. 707.  Funds made available by this or any other Act 
     for administrative expenses in the current fiscal year of the 
     corporations and agencies subject to chapter 91 of title 31, 
     United States Code, shall be available, in addition to 
     objects for which such funds are otherwise available, for 
     rent in the District of Columbia; services in accordance with 
     5 U.S.C. 3109; and the objects specified under this head, all 
     the provisions of which shall be applicable to the 
     expenditure of such funds unless otherwise specified in the 
     Act by which they are made available:  Provided, That in the 
     event any functions budgeted as

[[Page H6902]]

     administrative expenses are subsequently transferred to or 
     paid from other funds, the limitations on administrative 
     expenses shall be correspondingly reduced.
       Sec. 708.  No part of any appropriation contained in this 
     or any other Act shall be available for interagency financing 
     of boards (except Federal Executive Boards), commissions, 
     councils, committees, or similar groups (whether or not they 
     are interagency entities) which do not have a prior and 
     specific statutory approval to receive financial support from 
     more than one agency or instrumentality.
       Sec. 709.  None of the funds made available pursuant to the 
     provisions of this or any other Act shall be used to 
     implement, administer, or enforce any regulation which has 
     been disapproved pursuant to a joint resolution duly adopted 
     in accordance with the applicable law of the United States.
       Sec. 710.  During the period in which the head of any 
     department or agency, or any other officer or civilian 
     employee of the Federal Government appointed by the President 
     of the United States, holds office, no funds may be obligated 
     or expended in excess of $5,000 to furnish or redecorate the 
     office of such department head, agency head, officer, or 
     employee, or to purchase furniture or make improvements for 
     any such office, unless advance notice of such furnishing or 
     redecoration is transmitted to the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
     Senate. For the purposes of this section, the term ``office'' 
     shall include the entire suite of offices assigned to the 
     individual, as well as any other space used primarily by the 
     individual or the use of which is directly controlled by the 
     individual.
       Sec. 711.  Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346, or section 708 
     of this Act, funds made available for the current fiscal year 
     by this or any other Act shall be available for the 
     interagency funding of national security and emergency 
     preparedness telecommunications initiatives which benefit 
     multiple Federal departments, agencies, or entities, as 
     provided by Executive Order No. 13618 (July 6, 2012).
       Sec. 712. (a) None of the funds made available by this or 
     any other Act may be obligated or expended by any department, 
     agency, or other instrumentality of the Federal Government to 
     pay the salaries or expenses of any individual appointed to a 
     position of a confidential or policy-determining character 
     that is excepted from the competitive service under section 
     3302 of title 5, United States Code, (pursuant to schedule C 
     of subpart C of part 213 of title 5 of the Code of Federal 
     Regulations) unless the head of the applicable department, 
     agency, or other instrumentality employing such schedule C 
     individual certifies to the Director of the Office of 
     Personnel Management that the schedule C position occupied by 
     the individual was not created solely or primarily in order 
     to detail the individual to the White House.
       (b) The provisions of this section shall not apply to 
     Federal employees or members of the Armed Forces detailed to 
     or from an element of the intelligence community (as that 
     term is defined under section 3(4) of the National Security 
     Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003(4))).
       Sec. 713.  No part of any appropriation contained in this 
     or any other Act shall be available for the payment of the 
     salary of any officer or employee of the Federal Government, 
     who--
       (1) prohibits or prevents, or attempts or threatens to 
     prohibit or prevent, any other officer or employee of the 
     Federal Government from having any direct oral or written 
     communication or contact with any Member, committee, or 
     subcommittee of the Congress in connection with any matter 
     pertaining to the employment of such other officer or 
     employee or pertaining to the department or agency of such 
     other officer or employee in any way, irrespective of whether 
     such communication or contact is at the initiative of such 
     other officer or employee or in response to the request or 
     inquiry of such Member, committee, or subcommittee; or
       (2) removes, suspends from duty without pay, demotes, 
     reduces in rank, seniority, status, pay, or performance or 
     efficiency rating, denies promotion to, relocates, reassigns, 
     transfers, disciplines, or discriminates in regard to any 
     employment right, entitlement, or benefit, or any term or 
     condition of employment of, any other officer or employee of 
     the Federal Government, or attempts or threatens to commit 
     any of the foregoing actions with respect to such other 
     officer or employee, by reason of any communication or 
     contact of such other officer or employee with any Member, 
     committee, or subcommittee of the Congress as described in 
     paragraph (1).
       Sec. 714. (a) None of the funds made available in this or 
     any other Act may be obligated or expended for any employee 
     training that--
       (1) does not meet identified needs for knowledge, skills, 
     and abilities bearing directly upon the performance of 
     official duties;
       (2) contains elements likely to induce high levels of 
     emotional response or psychological stress in some 
     participants;
       (3) does not require prior employee notification of the 
     content and methods to be used in the training and written 
     end of course evaluation;
       (4) contains any methods or content associated with 
     religious or quasi-religious belief systems or ``new age'' 
     belief systems as defined in Equal Employment Opportunity 
     Commission Notice N-915.022, dated September 2, 1988; or
       (5) is offensive to, or designed to change, participants' 
     personal values or lifestyle outside the workplace.
       (b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit, restrict, or 
     otherwise preclude an agency from conducting training bearing 
     directly upon the performance of official duties.
       Sec. 715.  No part of any funds appropriated in this or any 
     other Act shall be used by an agency of the executive branch, 
     other than for normal and recognized executive-legislative 
     relationships, for publicity or propaganda purposes, and for 
     the preparation, distribution or use of any kit, pamphlet, 
     booklet, publication, radio, television, or film presentation 
     designed to support or defeat legislation pending before the 
     Congress, except in presentation to the Congress itself.
       Sec. 716.  None of the funds appropriated by this or any 
     other Act may be used by an agency to provide a Federal 
     employee's home address to any labor organization except when 
     the employee has authorized such disclosure or when such 
     disclosure has been ordered by a court of competent 
     jurisdiction.
       Sec. 717.  None of the funds made available in this or any 
     other Act may be used to provide any non-public information 
     such as mailing, telephone or electronic mailing lists to any 
     person or any organization outside of the Federal Government 
     without the approval of the Committees on Appropriations of 
     the House of Representatives and the Senate.
       Sec. 718.  No part of any appropriation contained in this 
     or any other Act shall be used directly or indirectly, 
     including by private contractor, for publicity or propaganda 
     purposes within the United States not heretofore authorized 
     by Congress.
       Sec. 719. (a) In this section, the term ``agency''--
       (1) means an Executive agency, as defined under 5 U.S.C. 
     105; and
       (2) includes a military department, as defined under 
     section 102 of such title, the United States Postal Service, 
     and the Postal Regulatory Commission.
       (b) Unless authorized in accordance with law or regulations 
     to use such time for other purposes, an employee of an agency 
     shall use official time in an honest effort to perform 
     official duties. An employee not under a leave system, 
     including a Presidential appointee exempted under 5 U.S.C. 
     6301(2), has an obligation to expend an honest effort and a 
     reasonable proportion of such employee's time in the 
     performance of official duties.
       Sec. 720.  Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346 and section 708 
     of this Act, funds made available for the current fiscal year 
     by this or any other Act to any department or agency, which 
     is a member of the Federal Accounting Standards Advisory 
     Board (FASAB), shall be available to finance an appropriate 
     share of FASAB administrative costs.
       Sec. 721.  Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346 and section 708 
     of this Act, the head of each Executive department and agency 
     is hereby authorized to transfer to or reimburse ``General 
     Services Administration, Government-wide Policy'' with the 
     approval of the Director of the Office of Management and 
     Budget, funds made available for the current fiscal year by 
     this or any other Act, including rebates from charge card and 
     other contracts:  Provided, That these funds shall be 
     administered by the Administrator of General Services to 
     support Government-wide and other multi-agency financial, 
     information technology, procurement, and other management 
     innovations, initiatives, and activities, including improving 
     coordination and reducing duplication, as approved by the 
     Director of the Office of Management and Budget, in 
     consultation with the appropriate interagency and multi-
     agency groups designated by the Director (including the 
     President's Management Council for overall management 
     improvement initiatives, the Chief Financial Officers Council 
     for financial management initiatives, the Chief Information 
     Officers Council for information technology initiatives, the 
     Chief Human Capital Officers Council for human capital 
     initiatives, the Chief Acquisition Officers Council for 
     procurement initiatives, and the Performance Improvement 
     Council for performance improvement initiatives):  Provided 
     further, That the total funds transferred or reimbursed shall 
     not exceed $15,000,000 to improve coordination, reduce 
     duplication, and for other activities related to Federal 
     Government Priority Goals established by 31 U.S.C. 1120, and 
     not to exceed $17,000,000 for Government-Wide innovations, 
     initiatives, and activities: Provided further, That the funds 
     transferred to or for reimbursement of ``General Services 
     Administration, Government-wide Policy'' during fiscal year 
     2018 shall remain available for obligation through September 
     30, 2019:  Provided further, That such transfers or 
     reimbursements may only be made after 15 days following 
     notification of the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
     of Representatives and the Senate by the Director of the 
     Office of Management and Budget.
       Sec. 722.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a 
     woman may breastfeed her child at any location in a Federal 
     building or on Federal property, if the woman and her child 
     are otherwise authorized to be present at the location.
       Sec. 723.  Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346, or section 708 
     of this Act, funds made available for the current fiscal year 
     by this or any other Act shall be available for the 
     interagency funding of specific projects, workshops, studies, 
     and similar efforts to carry

[[Page H6903]]

     out the purposes of the National Science and Technology 
     Council (authorized by Executive Order No. 12881), which 
     benefit multiple Federal departments, agencies, or entities:  
     Provided, That the Office of Management and Budget shall 
     provide a report describing the budget of and resources 
     connected with the National Science and Technology Council to 
     the Committees on Appropriations, the House Committee on 
     Science and Technology, and the Senate Committee on Commerce, 
     Science, and Transportation 90 days after enactment of this 
     Act.
       Sec. 724.  Any request for proposals, solicitation, grant 
     application, form, notification, press release, or other 
     publications involving the distribution of Federal funds 
     shall comply with any relevant requirements in part 200 of 
     title 2, Code of Federal Regulations:  Provided, That this 
     section shall apply to direct payments, formula funds, and 
     grants received by a State receiving Federal funds.
       Sec. 725. (a) Prohibition of Federal Agency Monitoring of 
     Individuals' Internet Use.--None of the funds made available 
     in this or any other Act may be used by any Federal agency--
       (1) to collect, review, or create any aggregation of data, 
     derived from any means, that includes any personally 
     identifiable information relating to an individual's access 
     to or use of any Federal Government Internet site of the 
     agency; or
       (2) to enter into any agreement with a third party 
     (including another government agency) to collect, review, or 
     obtain any aggregation of data, derived from any means, that 
     includes any personally identifiable information relating to 
     an individual's access to or use of any nongovernmental 
     Internet site.
       (b) Exceptions.--The limitations established in subsection 
     (a) shall not apply to--
       (1) any record of aggregate data that does not identify 
     particular persons;
       (2) any voluntary submission of personally identifiable 
     information;
       (3) any action taken for law enforcement, regulatory, or 
     supervisory purposes, in accordance with applicable law; or
       (4) any action described in subsection (a)(1) that is a 
     system security action taken by the operator of an Internet 
     site and is necessarily incident to providing the Internet 
     site services or to protecting the rights or property of the 
     provider of the Internet site.
       (c) Definitions.--For the purposes of this section:
       (1) The term ``regulatory'' means agency actions to 
     implement, interpret or enforce authorities provided in law.
       (2) The term ``supervisory'' means examinations of the 
     agency's supervised institutions, including assessing safety 
     and soundness, overall financial condition, management 
     practices and policies and compliance with applicable 
     standards as provided in law.
       Sec. 726. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
     may be used to enter into or renew a contract which includes 
     a provision providing prescription drug coverage, except 
     where the contract also includes a provision for 
     contraceptive coverage.
       (b) Nothing in this section shall apply to a contract 
     with--
       (1) any of the following religious plans:
       (A) Personal Care's HMO; and
       (B) OSF HealthPlans, Inc.; and
       (2) any existing or future plan, if the carrier for the 
     plan objects to such coverage on the basis of religious 
     beliefs.
       (c) In implementing this section, any plan that enters into 
     or renews a contract under this section may not subject any 
     individual to discrimination on the basis that the individual 
     refuses to prescribe or otherwise provide for contraceptives 
     because such activities would be contrary to the individual's 
     religious beliefs or moral convictions.
       (d) Nothing in this section shall be construed to require 
     coverage of abortion or abortion-related services.
       Sec. 727.  The United States is committed to ensuring the 
     health of its Olympic, Pan American, and Paralympic athletes, 
     and supports the strict adherence to anti-doping in sport 
     through testing, adjudication, education, and research as 
     performed by nationally recognized oversight authorities.
       Sec. 728.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     funds appropriated for official travel to Federal departments 
     and agencies may be used by such departments and agencies, if 
     consistent with Office of Management and Budget Circular A; 
     126 regarding official travel for Government personnel, to 
     participate in the fractional aircraft ownership pilot 
     program.
       Sec. 729.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no 
     executive branch agency shall purchase, construct, or lease 
     any additional facilities, except within or contiguous to 
     existing locations, to be used for the purpose of conducting 
     Federal law enforcement training without the advance approval 
     of the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate, except that the Federal Law 
     Enforcement Training Center is authorized to obtain the 
     temporary use of additional facilities by lease, contract, or 
     other agreement for training which cannot be accommodated in 
     existing Center facilities.
       Sec. 730.  Unless otherwise authorized by existing law, 
     none of the funds provided in this or any other Act may be 
     used by an executive branch agency to produce any prepackaged 
     news story intended for broadcast or distribution in the 
     United States, unless the story includes a clear notification 
     within the text or audio of the prepackaged news story that 
     the prepackaged news story was prepared or funded by that 
     executive branch agency.
       Sec. 731.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used in contravention of section 552a of title 5, United 
     States Code (popularly known as the Privacy Act), and 
     regulations implementing that section.
       Sec. 732. (a) In General.--None of the funds appropriated 
     or otherwise made available by this or any other Act may be 
     used for any Federal Government contract with any foreign 
     incorporated entity which is treated as an inverted domestic 
     corporation under section 835(b) of the Homeland Security Act 
     of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 395(b)) or any subsidiary of such an 
     entity.
       (b) Waivers.--
       (1) In general.--Any Secretary shall waive subsection (a) 
     with respect to any Federal Government contract under the 
     authority of such Secretary if the Secretary determines that 
     the waiver is required in the interest of national security.
       (2) Report to congress.--Any Secretary issuing a waiver 
     under paragraph (1) shall report such issuance to Congress.
       (c) Exception.--This section shall not apply to any Federal 
     Government contract entered into before the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, or to any task order issued pursuant 
     to such contract.
       Sec. 733.  During fiscal year 2018, for each employee who--
       (1) retires under section 8336(d)(2) or 8414(b)(1)(B) of 
     title 5, United States Code; or
       (2) retires under any other provision of subchapter III of 
     chapter 83 or chapter 84 of such title 5 and receives a 
     payment as an incentive to separate, the separating agency 
     shall remit to the Civil Service Retirement and Disability 
     Fund an amount equal to the Office of Personnel Management's 
     average unit cost of processing a retirement claim for the 
     preceding fiscal year. Such amounts shall be available until 
     expended to the Office of Personnel Management and shall be 
     deemed to be an administrative expense under section 
     8348(a)(1)(B) of title 5, United States Code.
       Sec. 734. (a) None of the funds made available in this or 
     any other Act may be used to recommend or require any entity 
     submitting an offer for a Federal contract to disclose any of 
     the following information as a condition of submitting the 
     offer:
       (1) Any payment consisting of a contribution, expenditure, 
     independent expenditure, or disbursement for an 
     electioneering communication that is made by the entity, its 
     officers or directors, or any of its affiliates or 
     subsidiaries to a candidate for election for Federal office 
     or to a political committee, or that is otherwise made with 
     respect to any election for Federal office.
       (2) Any disbursement of funds (other than a payment 
     described in paragraph (1)) made by the entity, its officers 
     or directors, or any of its affiliates or subsidiaries to any 
     person with the intent or the reasonable expectation that the 
     person will use the funds to make a payment described in 
     paragraph (1).
       (b) In this section, each of the terms ``contribution'', 
     ``expenditure'', ``independent expenditure'', 
     ``electioneering communication'', ``candidate'', 
     ``election'', and ``Federal office'' has the meaning given 
     such term in the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52 
     U.S.C. 30101 et seq.).
       Sec. 735.  None of the funds made available in this or any 
     other Act may be used to pay for the painting of a portrait 
     of an officer or employee of the Federal government, 
     including the President, the Vice President, a member of 
     Congress (including a Delegate or a Resident Commissioner to 
     Congress), the head of an executive branch agency (as defined 
     in section 133 of title 41, United States Code), or the head 
     of an office of the legislative branch.
       Sec. 736. (a)(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of 
     law, and except as otherwise provided in this section, no 
     part of any of the funds appropriated for fiscal year 2018, 
     by this or any other Act, may be used to pay any prevailing 
     rate employee described in section 5342(a)(2)(A) of title 5, 
     United States Code--
       (A) during the period from the date of expiration of the 
     limitation imposed by the comparable section for the previous 
     fiscal years until the normal effective date of the 
     applicable wage survey adjustment that is to take effect in 
     fiscal year 2018, in an amount that exceeds the rate payable 
     for the applicable grade and step of the applicable wage 
     schedule in accordance with such section; and
       (B) during the period consisting of the remainder of fiscal 
     year 2018 , in an amount that exceeds, as a result of a wage 
     survey adjustment, the rate payable under subparagraph (A) by 
     more than the sum of--
       (i) the percentage adjustment taking effect in fiscal year 
     2018 under section 5303 of title 5, United States Code, in 
     the rates of pay under the General Schedule; and
       (ii) the difference between the overall average percentage 
     of the locality-based comparability payments taking effect in 
     fiscal year 2018 under section 5304 of such title (whether by 
     adjustment or otherwise), and the overall average percentage 
     of such payments which was effective in the previous fiscal 
     year under such section.
       (2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no 
     prevailing rate employee described in subparagraph (B) or (C) 
     of section 5342(a)(2) of title 5, United States Code, and no 
     employee covered by section 5348 of such title, may be paid 
     during the periods for which paragraph (1) is in effect at a 
     rate that exceeds the rates that would be payable under 
     paragraph (1) were paragraph (1) applicable to such employee.

[[Page H6904]]

       (3) For the purposes of this subsection, the rates payable 
     to an employee who is covered by this subsection and who is 
     paid from a schedule not in existence on September 30, 2017, 
     shall be determined under regulations prescribed by the 
     Office of Personnel Management.
       (4) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, rates of 
     premium pay for employees subject to this subsection may not 
     be changed from the rates in effect on September 30, 2017, 
     except to the extent determined by the Office of Personnel 
     Management to be consistent with the purpose of this 
     subsection.
       (5) This subsection shall apply with respect to pay for 
     service performed after September 30, 2017.
       (6) For the purpose of administering any provision of law 
     (including any rule or regulation that provides premium pay, 
     retirement, life insurance, or any other employee benefit) 
     that requires any deduction or contribution, or that imposes 
     any requirement or limitation on the basis of a rate of 
     salary or basic pay, the rate of salary or basic pay payable 
     after the application of this subsection shall be treated as 
     the rate of salary or basic pay.
       (7) Nothing in this subsection shall be considered to 
     permit or require the payment to any employee covered by this 
     subsection at a rate in excess of the rate that would be 
     payable were this subsection not in effect.
       (8) The Office of Personnel Management may provide for 
     exceptions to the limitations imposed by this subsection if 
     the Office determines that such exceptions are necessary to 
     ensure the recruitment or retention of qualified employees.
       (b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), the adjustment in rates 
     of basic pay for the statutory pay systems that take place in 
     fiscal year 2018 under sections 5344 and 5348 of title 5, 
     United States Code, shall be--
       (1) not less than the percentage received by employees in 
     the same location whose rates of basic pay are adjusted 
     pursuant to the statutory pay systems under sections 5303 and 
     5304 of title 5, United States Code:  Provided, That 
     prevailing rate employees at locations where there are no 
     employees whose pay is increased pursuant to sections 5303 
     and 5304 of title 5, United States Code, and prevailing rate 
     employees described in section 5343(a)(5) of title 5, United 
     States Code, shall be considered to be located in the pay 
     locality designated as ``Rest of United States'' pursuant to 
     section 5304 of title 5, United States Code, for purposes of 
     this subsection; and
       (2) effective as of the first day of the first applicable 
     pay period beginning after September 30, 2017.
       Sec. 737. (a) The head of any Executive branch department, 
     agency, board, commission, or office funded by this or any 
     other appropriations Act shall submit annual reports to the 
     Inspector General or senior ethics official for any entity 
     without an Inspector General, regarding the costs and 
     contracting procedures related to each conference held by any 
     such department, agency, board, commission, or office during 
     fiscal year 2018 for which the cost to the United States 
     Government was more than $100,000.
       (b) Each report submitted shall include, for each 
     conference described in subsection (a) held during the 
     applicable period--
       (1) a description of its purpose;
       (2) the number of participants attending;
       (3) a detailed statement of the costs to the United States 
     Government, including--
       (A) the cost of any food or beverages;
       (B) the cost of any audio-visual services;
       (C) the cost of employee or contractor travel to and from 
     the conference; and
       (D) a discussion of the methodology used to determine which 
     costs relate to the conference; and
       (4) a description of the contracting procedures used 
     including--
       (A) whether contracts were awarded on a competitive basis; 
     and
       (B) a discussion of any cost comparison conducted by the 
     departmental component or office in evaluating potential 
     contractors for the conference.
       (c) Within 15 days after the end of a quarter, the head of 
     any such department, agency, board, commission, or office 
     shall notify the Inspector General or senior ethics official 
     for any entity without an Inspector General, of the date, 
     location, and number of employees attending a conference held 
     by any Executive branch department, agency, board, 
     commission, or office funded by this or any other 
     appropriations Act during fiscal year 2018 for which the cost 
     to the United States Government was more than $20,000.
       (d) A grant or contract funded by amounts appropriated by 
     this or any other appropriations Act may not be used for the 
     purpose of defraying the costs of a conference described in 
     subsection (c) that is not directly and programmatically 
     related to the purpose for which the grant or contract was 
     awarded, such as a conference held in connection with 
     planning, training, assessment, review, or other routine 
     purposes related to a project funded by the grant or 
     contract.
       (e) None of the funds made available in this or any other 
     appropriations Act may be used for travel and conference 
     activities that are not in compliance with Office of 
     Management and Budget Memorandum M-12-12 dated May 11, 2012 
     or any subsequent revisions to that memorandum.
       Sec. 738.  None of the funds made available in this or any 
     other appropriations Act may be used to increase, eliminate, 
     or reduce funding for a program, project, or activity as 
     proposed in the President's budget request for a fiscal year 
     until such proposed change is subsequently enacted in an 
     appropriation Act, or unless such change is made pursuant to 
     the reprogramming or transfer provisions of this or any other 
     appropriations Act.
       Sec. 739.  None of the funds made available by this or any 
     other Act may be used to implement, administer, enforce, or 
     apply the rule entitled ``Competitive Area'' published by the 
     Office of Personnel Management in the Federal Register on 
     April 15, 2008 (73 Fed. Reg. 20180 et seq.).
       Sec. 740. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available by this or any other Act may be available for 
     a contract, grant, or cooperative agreement with an entity 
     that requires employees or contractors of such entity seeking 
     to report fraud, waste, or abuse to sign internal 
     confidentiality agreements or statements prohibiting or 
     otherwise restricting such employees or contractors from 
     lawfully reporting such waste, fraud, or abuse to a 
     designated investigative or law enforcement representative of 
     a Federal department or agency authorized to receive such 
     information.
       (b) The limitation in subsection (a) shall not contravene 
     requirements applicable to Standard Form 312, Form 4414, or 
     any other form issued by a Federal department or agency 
     governing the nondisclosure of classified information.
       Sec. 741. (a) No funds appropriated in this or any other 
     Act may be used to implement or enforce the agreements in 
     Standard Forms 312 and 4414 of the Government or any other 
     nondisclosure policy, form, or agreement if such policy, 
     form, or agreement does not contain the following provisions: 
     ``These provisions are consistent with and do not supersede, 
     conflict with, or otherwise alter the employee obligations, 
     rights, or liabilities created by existing statute or 
     Executive order relating to: (1) classified information; (2) 
     communications to Congress; (3) the reporting to an Inspector 
     General of a violation of any law, rule, or regulation, or 
     mismanagement, a gross waste of funds, an abuse of authority, 
     or a substantial and specific danger to public health or 
     safety; or (4) any other whistleblower protection. The 
     definitions, requirements, obligations, rights, sanctions, 
     and liabilities created by controlling Executive orders and 
     statutory provisions are incorporated into this agreement and 
     are controlling.'':  Provided, That notwithstanding the 
     preceding provision of this section, a nondisclosure policy 
     form or agreement that is to be executed by a person 
     connected with the conduct of an intelligence or 
     intelligence-related activity, other than an employee or 
     officer of the United States Government, may contain 
     provisions appropriate to the particular activity for which 
     such document is to be used. Such form or agreement shall, at 
     a minimum, require that the person will not disclose any 
     classified information received in the course of such 
     activity unless specifically authorized to do so by the 
     United States Government. Such nondisclosure forms shall also 
     make it clear that they do not bar disclosures to Congress, 
     or to an authorized official of an executive agency or the 
     Department of Justice, that are essential to reporting a 
     substantial violation of law.
       (b) A nondisclosure agreement may continue to be 
     implemented and enforced notwithstanding subsection (a) if it 
     complies with the requirements for such agreement that were 
     in effect when the agreement was entered into.
       (c) No funds appropriated in this or any other Act may be 
     used to implement or enforce any agreement entered into 
     during fiscal year 2014 which does not contain substantially 
     similar language to that required in subsection (a).
       Sec. 742.  None of the funds made available by this or any 
     other Act may be used to enter into a contract, memorandum of 
     understanding, or cooperative agreement with, make a grant 
     to, or provide a loan or loan guarantee to, any corporation 
     that has any unpaid Federal tax liability that has been 
     assessed, for which all judicial and administrative remedies 
     have been exhausted or have lapsed, and that is not being 
     paid in a timely manner pursuant to an agreement with the 
     authority responsible for collecting the tax liability, where 
     the awarding agency is aware of the unpaid tax liability, 
     unless a Federal agency has considered suspension or 
     debarment of the corporation and has made a determination 
     that this further action is not necessary to protect the 
     interests of the Government.
       Sec. 743.  None of the funds made available by this or any 
     other Act may be used to enter into a contract, memorandum of 
     understanding, or cooperative agreement with, make a grant 
     to, or provide a loan or loan guarantee to, any corporation 
     that was convicted of a felony criminal violation under any 
     Federal law within the preceding 24 months, where the 
     awarding agency is aware of the conviction, unless a Federal 
     agency has considered suspension or debarment of the 
     corporation and has made a determination that this further 
     action is not necessary to protect the interests of the 
     Government.
       Sec. 744. (a) During fiscal year 2018, on the date on which 
     a request is made for a transfer of funds in accordance with 
     section 1017 of Public Law 111-203, the Bureau of Consumer 
     Financial Protection shall notify the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
     Senate, the Committee on Financial Services of the House of 
     Representatives, and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
     Urban Affairs of the Senate of such request.

[[Page H6905]]

       (b) Any notification required by this section shall be made 
     available on the Bureau's public Web site.
       Sec. 745.  None of the funds made available under this or 
     any other Act may be used to implement or enforce Executive 
     Order No. 13690, ``Establishing a Federal Flood Risk 
     Management Standard and a Process for Further Soliciting and 
     Considering Stakeholder Input'', including any related rules, 
     interim final rules, or guidance.
       Sec. 746.  Except as expressly provided otherwise, any 
     reference to ``this Act'' contained in any title other than 
     title IV or VIII shall not apply to such title IV or VIII.

                               TITLE VIII

                GENERAL PROVISIONS--DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

                     (including transfers of funds)

       Sec. 801.  There are appropriated from the applicable funds 
     of the District of Columbia such sums as may be necessary for 
     making refunds and for the payment of legal settlements or 
     judgments that have been entered against the District of 
     Columbia government.
       Sec. 802.  None of the Federal funds provided in this Act 
     shall be used for publicity or propaganda purposes or 
     implementation of any policy including boycott designed to 
     support or defeat legislation pending before Congress or any 
     State legislature.
       Sec. 803. (a) None of the Federal funds provided under this 
     Act to the agencies funded by this Act, both Federal and 
     District government agencies, that remain available for 
     obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2018, or provided 
     from any accounts in the Treasury of the United States 
     derived by the collection of fees available to the agencies 
     funded by this Act, shall be available for obligation or 
     expenditures for an agency through a reprogramming of funds 
     which--
       (1) creates new programs;
       (2) eliminates a program, project, or responsibility 
     center;
       (3) establishes or changes allocations specifically denied, 
     limited or increased under this Act;
       (4) increases funds or personnel by any means for any 
     program, project, or responsibility center for which funds 
     have been denied or restricted;
       (5) re-establishes any program or project previously 
     deferred through reprogramming;
       (6) augments any existing program, project, or 
     responsibility center through a reprogramming of funds in 
     excess of $3,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less; or
       (7) increases by 20 percent or more personnel assigned to a 
     specific program, project or responsibility center,
     unless prior approval is received from the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
     Senate.
       (b) The District of Columbia government is authorized to 
     approve and execute reprogramming and transfer requests of 
     local funds under this title through November 7, 2018.
       Sec. 804.  None of the Federal funds provided in this Act 
     may be used by the District of Columbia to provide for 
     salaries, expenses, or other costs associated with the 
     offices of United States Senator or United States 
     Representative under section 4(d) of the District of Columbia 
     Statehood Constitutional Convention Initiatives of 1979 (D.C. 
     Law 3-171; D.C. Official Code, sec. 1-123).
       Sec. 805.  Except as otherwise provided in this section, 
     none of the funds made available by this Act or by any other 
     Act may be used to provide any officer or employee of the 
     District of Columbia with an official vehicle unless the 
     officer or employee uses the vehicle only in the performance 
     of the officer's or employee's official duties. For purposes 
     of this section, the term ``official duties'' does not 
     include travel between the officer's or employee's residence 
     and workplace, except in the case of--
       (1) an officer or employee of the Metropolitan Police 
     Department who resides in the District of Columbia or is 
     otherwise designated by the Chief of the Department;
       (2) at the discretion of the Fire Chief, an officer or 
     employee of the District of Columbia Fire and Emergency 
     Medical Services Department who resides in the District of 
     Columbia and is on call 24 hours a day;
       (3) at the discretion of the Director of the Department of 
     Corrections, an officer or employee of the District of 
     Columbia Department of Corrections who resides in the 
     District of Columbia and is on call 24 hours a day;
       (4) at the discretion of the Chief Medical Examiner, an 
     officer or employee of the Office of the Chief Medical 
     Examiner who resides in the District of Columbia and is on 
     call 24 hours a day;
       (5) at the discretion of the Director of the Homeland 
     Security and Emergency Management Agency, an officer or 
     employee of the Homeland Security and Emergency Management 
     Agency who resides in the District of Columbia and is on call 
     24 hours a day;
       (6) the Mayor of the District of Columbia; and
       (7) the Chairman of the Council of the District of 
     Columbia.
       Sec. 806. (a) None of the Federal funds contained in this 
     Act may be used by the District of Columbia Attorney General 
     or any other officer or entity of the District government to 
     provide assistance for any petition drive or civil action 
     which seeks to require Congress to provide for voting 
     representation in Congress for the District of Columbia.
       (b) Nothing in this section bars the District of Columbia 
     Attorney General from reviewing or commenting on briefs in 
     private lawsuits, or from consulting with officials of the 
     District government regarding such lawsuits.
       Sec. 807.  None of the Federal funds contained in this Act 
     may be used to distribute any needle or syringe for the 
     purpose of preventing the spread of blood borne pathogens in 
     any location that has been determined by the local public 
     health or local law enforcement authorities to be 
     inappropriate for such distribution.
       Sec. 808.  Nothing in this Act may be construed to prevent 
     the Council or Mayor of the District of Columbia from 
     addressing the issue of the provision of contraceptive 
     coverage by health insurance plans, but it is the intent of 
     Congress that any legislation enacted on such issue should 
     include a ``conscience clause'' which provides exceptions for 
     religious beliefs and moral convictions.
       Sec. 809. (a) None of the Federal funds contained in this 
     Act may be used to enact or carry out any law, rule, or 
     regulation to legalize or otherwise reduce penalties 
     associated with the possession, use, or distribution of any 
     schedule I substance under the Controlled Substances Act (21 
     U.S.C. 801 et seq.) or any tetrahydrocannabinols derivative.
       (b) No funds available for obligation or expenditure by the 
     District of Columbia government under any authority may be 
     used to enact any law, rule, or regulation to legalize or 
     otherwise reduce penalties associated with the possession, 
     use, or distribution of any schedule I substance under the 
     Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 801 et seq.) or any 
     tetrahydrocannabinols derivative for recreational purposes.
       Sec. 810.  No funds available for obligation or expenditure 
     by the District of Columbia government under any authority 
     shall be expended for any abortion except where the life of 
     the mother would be endangered if the fetus were carried to 
     term or where the pregnancy is the result of an act of rape 
     or incest.
       Sec. 811. (a) No later than 30 calendar days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Chief Financial Officer for 
     the District of Columbia shall submit to the appropriate 
     committees of Congress, the Mayor, and the Council of the 
     District of Columbia, a revised appropriated funds operating 
     budget in the format of the budget that the District of 
     Columbia government submitted pursuant to section 442 of the 
     District of Columbia Home Rule Act (D.C. Official Code, sec. 
     1-204.42), for all agencies of the District of Columbia 
     government for fiscal year 2018 that is in the total amount 
     of the approved appropriation and that realigns all budgeted 
     data for personal services and other-than-personal services, 
     respectively, with anticipated actual expenditures.
       (b) This section shall apply only to an agency for which 
     the Chief Financial Officer for the District of Columbia 
     certifies that a reallocation is required to address 
     unanticipated changes in program requirements.
       Sec. 812.  No later than 30 calendar days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Chief Financial Officer for 
     the District of Columbia shall submit to the appropriate 
     committees of Congress, the Mayor, and the Council for the 
     District of Columbia, a revised appropriated funds operating 
     budget for the District of Columbia Public Schools that 
     aligns schools budgets to actual enrollment. The revised 
     appropriated funds budget shall be in the format of the 
     budget that the District of Columbia government submitted 
     pursuant to section 442 of the District of Columbia Home Rule 
     Act (D.C. Official Code, sec. 1-204.42).
       Sec. 813. (a) Amounts appropriated in this Act as operating 
     funds may be transferred to the District of Columbia's 
     enterprise and capital funds and such amounts, once 
     transferred, shall retain appropriation authority consistent 
     with the provisions of this Act.
       (b) The District of Columbia government is authorized to 
     reprogram or transfer for operating expenses any local funds 
     transferred or reprogrammed in this or the four prior fiscal 
     years from operating funds to capital funds, and such 
     amounts, once transferred or reprogrammed, shall retain 
     appropriation authority consistent with the provisions of 
     this Act.
       (c) The District of Columbia government may not transfer or 
     reprogram for operating expenses any funds derived from 
     bonds, notes, or other obligations issued for capital 
     projects.
       Sec. 814.  None of the Federal funds appropriated in this 
     Act shall remain available for obligation beyond the current 
     fiscal year, nor may any be transferred to other 
     appropriations, unless expressly so provided herein.
       Sec. 815.  Except as otherwise specifically provided by law 
     or under this Act, not to exceed 50 percent of unobligated 
     balances remaining available at the end of fiscal year 2018 
     from appropriations of Federal funds made available for 
     salaries and expenses for fiscal year 2018 in this Act, shall 
     remain available through September 30, 2019, for each such 
     account for the purposes authorized:  Provided, That a 
     request shall be submitted to the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
     for approval prior to the expenditure of such funds:  
     Provided further, That these requests shall be made in 
     compliance with reprogramming guidelines outlined in section 
     803 of this Act.
       Sec. 816. (a)(1) During fiscal year 2019, during a period 
     in which neither a District of Columbia continuing resolution 
     or a regular

[[Page H6906]]

     District of Columbia appropriation bill is in effect, local 
     funds are appropriated in the amount provided for any project 
     or activity for which local funds are provided in the Act 
     referred to in paragraph (2) (subject to any modifications 
     enacted by the District of Columbia as of the beginning of 
     the period during which this subsection is in effect) at the 
     rate set forth by such Act.
       (2) The Act referred to in this paragraph is the Act of the 
     Council of the District of Columbia pursuant to which a 
     proposed budget is approved for fiscal year 2019 which 
     (subject to the requirements of the District of Columbia Home 
     Rule Act) will constitute the local portion of the annual 
     budget for the District of Columbia government for fiscal 
     year 2019 for purposes of section 446 of the District of 
     Columbia Home Rule Act (sec. 1-204.46, D.C. Official Code).
       (b) Appropriations made by subsection (a) shall cease to be 
     available--
       (1) during any period in which a District of Columbia 
     continuing resolution for fiscal year 2019 is in effect; or
       (2) upon the enactment into law of the regular District of 
     Columbia appropriation bill for fiscal year 2019.
       (c) An appropriation made by subsection (a) is provided 
     under the authority and conditions as provided under this Act 
     and shall be available to the extent and in the manner that 
     would be provided by this Act.
       (d) An appropriation made by subsection (a) shall cover all 
     obligations or expenditures incurred for such project or 
     activity during the portion of fiscal year 2019 for which 
     this section applies to such project or activity.
       (e) This section shall not apply to a project or activity 
     during any period of fiscal year 2019 if any other provision 
     of law (other than an authorization of appropriations)--
       (1) makes an appropriation, makes funds available, or 
     grants authority for such project or activity to continue for 
     such period; or
       (2) specifically provides that no appropriation shall be 
     made, no funds shall be made available, or no authority shall 
     be granted for such project or activity to continue for such 
     period.
       (f) Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect 
     obligations of the government of the District of Columbia 
     mandated by other law.
       Sec. 817. (a) Effective with respect to fiscal year 2013 
     and each succeeding fiscal year, the Local Budget Autonomy 
     Amendment Act of 2012 (D.C. Law 19-321) is hereby repealed, 
     and any provision of law amended or repealed by such Act 
     shall be restored or revived as if such Act had not been 
     enacted into law.
       (b)(1) Section 450 of the District of Columbia Home Rule 
     Act (sec. 1-204.50, D.C. Official Code) is amended--
       (A) in the first sentence, by striking ``The General Fund'' 
     and inserting ``(a) In General.--The General Fund''; and
       (B) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(b) Application of Federal Appropriations Process.--
     Nothing in this Act shall be construed as creating a 
     continuing appropriation of the General Fund described in 
     subsection (a). All funds provided for the District of 
     Columbia shall be appropriated on an annual fiscal year basis 
     through the Federal appropriations process. For each fiscal 
     year, the District shall be subject to all applicable 
     requirements of subchapter III of chapter 13 and subchapter 
     II of chapter 15 of title 31, United States Code (commonly 
     known as the `Anti-Deficiency Act'), the Budget and 
     Accounting Act of 1921, and all other requirements and 
     restrictions applicable to appropriations for such fiscal 
     year.''.
       (2) Section 603(a) of such Act (sec. 1-206.03(a), D.C. 
     Official Code) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``existing''; and
       (B) by striking the period at the end and inserting the 
     following: ``, or as authorizing the District of Columbia to 
     make any such change.''.
       (3) The amendments made by this subsection shall take 
     effect as if included in the enactment of the District of 
     Columbia Home Rule Act.
       Sec. 818. (a) No funds available for obligation or 
     expenditure by the District of Columbia government under any 
     authority may be used to enact any act, resolution, rule, 
     regulation, guidance, or other law to permit any person to 
     carry out any activity, or to reduce the penalties imposed 
     with respect to any activity, to which subsection (a) of 
     section 3 of the Assisted Suicide Funding Restriction Act of 
     1997 (42 U.S.C. 14402) applies (taking into consideration 
     subsection (b) of such section).
       (b) Effective February 18, 2017, the Death With Dignity Act 
     of 2016 (D.C. Law 21-182) is hereby repealed.
       Sec. 819.  Except as expressly provided otherwise, any 
     reference to ``this Act'' contained in this title or in title 
     IV shall be treated as referring only to the provisions of 
     this title or of title IV.

                        TITLE IX--OTHER MATTERS


                           table of contents

       Sec. 901. 
       The table of contents for this title is as follows:

Sec. 901. Table of contents.
Sec. 902. Directed rulemaking repeals.
Sec. 903. Repeal and modification of provisions of the Financial 
              Stability Act of 2010.
Sec. 904. Bringing the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation into the 
              appropriations process.
Sec. 905. Bringing the Federal Housing Finance Agency into the 
              appropriations process.
Sec. 906. Bringing the examination and supervision functions of the 
              National Credit Union Administration into the 
              appropriations process.
Sec. 907. Bringing the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency into 
              the appropriations process.
Sec. 908. Bringing the non-monetary policy related functions of the 
              Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System into the 
              appropriations process.
Sec. 909. Increased threshold for disclosures relating to compensatory 
              benefit plans.
Sec. 910. Refunding or crediting overpayment of section 31 fees.
Sec. 911. Safe harbor for investment fund research.
Sec. 912. Annual review of government-business forum on capital 
              formation.
Sec. 913. Helping Angles Lead Our Startups.
Sec. 914. Investor limitation for qualifying venture capital funds.
Sec. 915. Manufactured Housing.
Sec. 916. Requirements for deposit account termination requests and 
              orders.
Sec. 917. Amendments to the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, 
              and Enforcement Act of 1989.
Sec. 918. Safe harbor for certain loans held on portfolio.
Sec. 919. Changes required to small bank holding company policy 
              statement on assessment of financial and managerial 
              factors.
Sec. 920. Community financial institution mortgage relief.
Sec. 921. Regulations appropriate to business models.
Sec. 922. Eliminating barriers to jobs for loan originators.
Sec. 923. Small business loan data collection requirement.
Sec. 924. Depository institutions subject to maintenance of records and 
              disclosure requirements.
Sec. 925. Rate of interest after transfer of loan.
Sec. 926. Bringing the Bureau into the regular appropriations process.
Sec. 927. Elimination of supervision authority.
Sec. 928. Removal of authority to regulate small-dollar credit.
Sec. 929. Removal of Bureau UDAAP authority.
Sec. 930. Repeal of authority to restrict arbitration.
Sec. 931. Exemption from risk retention requirements for nonresidential 
              mortgage.
Sec. 932. Prohibition on requiring a single ballot.
Sec. 933. Repeal of the Volcker Rule and other provisions.


                      directed rulemaking repeals

       Sec. 902. 
       With respect to any directed rulemaking required by a 
     provision of law repealed by this title, to the extent any 
     rule was issued or revised pursuant to such directed 
     rulemaking, such rule or revision shall have no force or 
     effect.


repeal and modification of provisions of the financial stability act of 
                                  2010

       Sec. 903. 
       (a) Repeals.--The following provisions of the Financial 
     Stability Act of 2010 are repealed, and the provisions of law 
     amended or repealed by such provisions are restored or 
     revived as if such provisions had not been enacted:
       (1) Subtitle B.
       (2) Section 113.
       (3) Section 114.
       (4) Section 115.
       (5) Section 116.
       (6) Section 117.
       (7) Section 119.
       (8) Section 120.
       (9) Section 121.
       (10) Section 161.
       (11) Section 162.
       (12) Section 164.
       (13) Section 166.
       (14) Section 167.
       (15) Section 168.
       (16) Section 170.
       (17) Section 172.
       (18) Section 174.
       (19) Section 175.
       (b) Additional Modifications.--The Financial Stability Act 
     of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5311 et seq.) is amended--
       (1) in section 102(a), by striking paragraph (5);
       (2) in section 111--
       (A) in subsection (b)--
       (i) in paragraph (1)--

       (I) by striking ``who shall each'' and inserting ``who 
     shall, except as provided below, each''; and
       (II) by striking subparagraphs (B) through (I) and 
     inserting the following:

       ``(B) each member of the Board of Governors, who shall 
     collectively have 1 vote on the Council;
       ``(C) the Comptroller of the Currency;
       ``(D) the Director of the Bureau;
       ``(E) each member of the Commission, who shall collectively 
     have 1 vote on the Council;
       ``(F) each member of the Corporation, who shall 
     collectively have 1 vote on the Council;
       ``(G) each member of the Commodity Futures Trading 
     Commission, who shall collectively have 1 vote on the 
     Council;

[[Page H6907]]

       ``(H) the Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency;
       ``(I) each member of the National Credit Union 
     Administration Board, who shall collectively have 1 vote on 
     the Council; and'';
       (ii) in paragraph (2)--

       (I) by striking subparagraph (A); and
       (II) by redesignating subparagraphs (B), (C), (D), and (E) 
     as subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), and (D), respectively; and

       (iii) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(4) Voting by multi-person entity.--
       ``(A) Voting within the entity.--An entity described under 
     subparagraph (B), (E), (F), (G), or (I) of paragraph (1) 
     shall determine the entity's Council vote by using the voting 
     process normally applicable to votes by the entity's members.
       ``(B) Casting of entity vote.--The 1 collective Council 
     vote of an entity described under subparagraph (A) shall be 
     cast by the head of such agency or, in the event such head is 
     unable to cast such vote, the next most senior member of the 
     entity available.'';
       (B) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ``The independent 
     member of the Council shall serve for a term of 6 years, and 
     each nonvoting member described in subparagraphs (C), (D), 
     and (E) of'' and inserting ``Each nonvoting members described 
     under'';
       (C) in subsection (e), by adding at the end the following:
       ``(3) Staff access.--Any member of the Council may select 
     to have one or more individuals on the member's staff attend 
     a meeting of the Council, including any meeting of 
     representatives of the member agencies other than the members 
     themselves.
       ``(4) Congressional oversight.--All public meetings of the 
     Council shall be open to the attendance by members of the 
     authorization and oversight committees of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate.
       ``(5) Transcription requirement for non-public meetings.--
     The Council shall create and preserve transcripts for all 
     non-public meetings of the Council.
       ``(6) Member agency meetings.--Any meeting of 
     representatives of the member agencies other than the members 
     themselves shall be open to attendance by staff of the 
     authorization and oversight committees of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate.'';
       (D) by striking subsection (g) (relating to the 
     nonapplicability of FACA);
       (E) by inserting after subsection (f) the following:
       ``(g) Open Meeting Requirement.--The Council shall be an 
     agency for purposes of section 552b of title 5, United States 
     Code (commonly referred to as the `Government in the Sunshine 
     Act').
       ``(h) Confidential Congressional Briefings.--The 
     Chairperson shall at regular times but not less than annually 
     provide confidential briefings to the Committee on Financial 
     Services of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
     Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate, which may 
     in the discretion of the Chairman of the respective committee 
     be attended by any combination of the committee's members or 
     staff.''; and
       (F) by redesignating subsections (h) through (j) as 
     subsections (i) through (k), respectively;
       (3) in section 112--
       (A) in subsection (a)(2)--
       (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``direct the Office of 
     Financial Research to'';
       (ii) by striking subparagraphs (B), (H), and (I);
       (iii) by redesignating subparagraphs (C), (D), (E), (F), 
     (G), (J), (K), (L), (M), and (N) as subparagraphs (B), (C), 
     (D), (E), (F), (G), (H), (I), (J), and (K), respectively;
       (iv) in subparagraph (K), as so redesignated--

       (I) in clause (iii), by adding ``and'' at the end;
       (II) by striking clauses (iv) and (v); and
       (III) by redesignating clause (vi) as clause (iv); and

       (B) in subsection (d)--
       (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ``the Office of Financial 
     Research, member agencies,'' and inserting ``member 
     agencies'';
       (ii) in paragraph (2), by striking ``the Office of 
     Financial Research, any member agency,'' and inserting 
     ``member agencies'';
       (iii) in paragraph (3)--

       (I) by striking ``, acting through the Office of Financial 
     Research,'' each place it appears; and
       (II) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``the Office of 
     Financial Research or''; and

       (iv) in paragraph (5)(A), by striking ``, the Office of 
     Financial Research,'';
       (4) by amending section 118 to read as follows:

     ``SEC. 118. COUNCIL FUNDING.

       ``There is authorized to be appropriated to the Council 
     $4,000,000 for fiscal year 2018 and each fiscal year 
     thereafter to carry out the duties of the Council.'';
       (5) in section 163--
       (A) by striking subsection (a);
       (B) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (a); and
       (C) in subsection (a), as so redesignated, by striking ``or 
     a nonbank financial company supervised by the Board of 
     Governors'' each place such term appears;
       (6) in section 165--
       (A) by striking ``nonbank financial companies supervised by 
     the Board of Governors and'' each place such term appears;
       (B) by striking ``nonbank financial company supervised by 
     the Board of Governors and'' each place such term appears;
       (C) in subsection (a), by amending paragraph (2) to read as 
     follows:
       ``(2) Tailored application.--In prescribing more stringent 
     prudential standards under this section, the Board of 
     Governors may differentiate among companies on an individual 
     basis or by category, taking into consideration their capital 
     structure, riskiness, complexity, financial activities 
     (including the financial activities of their subsidiaries), 
     size, and any other risk-related factors that the Board of 
     Governors deems appropriate.'';
       (D) in subsection (b)--
       (i) in paragraph (1)(B)(iv), by striking ``, on its own or 
     pursuant to a recommendation made by the Council in 
     accordance with section 115,'';
       (ii) in paragraph (2)--

       (I) by striking ``foreign nonbank financial company 
     supervised by the Board of Governors or'';
       (II) by striking ``shall--'' and all that follows through 
     ``give due'' and inserting ``shall give due'';
       (III) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``; and'' and 
     inserting a period; and
       (IV) by striking subparagraph (B);

       (iii) in paragraph (3)--

       (I) in subparagraph (A)--

       (aa) by striking clause (i);
       (bb) by redesignating clauses (ii), (iii), and (iv) as 
     clauses (i), (ii), and (iii), respectively; and
       (cc) in clause (iii), as so redesignated, by adding ``and'' 
     at the end;

       (II) by striking subparagraphs (B) and (C); and
       (III) by redesignating subparagraph (D) as subparagraph 
     (B); and

       (iv) in paragraph (4), by striking ``a nonbank financial 
     company supervised by the Board of Governors or'';
       (E) in subsection (c)--
       (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ``under section 115(c)''; 
     and
       (ii) in paragraph (2)--

       (I) by amending subparagraph (A) to read as follows:

       ``(A) any recommendations of the Council;''; and

       (II) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``nonbank financial 
     company supervised by the Board of Governors or'';

       (F) in subsection (d)--
       (i) by striking ``a nonbank financial company supervised by 
     the Board of Governors or'' each place such term appears;
       (ii) in paragraph (1), by striking ``periodically'' and 
     inserting ``not more often than every 2 years'';
       (iii) in paragraph (3)--

       (I) by striking ``The Board'' and inserting the following:

       ``(A) In general.--The Board'';

       (II) by striking ``shall review'' and inserting the 
     following: ``shall--

       ``(i) review'';

       (III) by striking the period and inserting ``; and''; and
       (IV) by adding at the end the following:

       ``(ii) not later than the end of the 6-month period 
     beginning on the date the bank holding company submits the 
     resolution plan, provide feedback to the bank holding company 
     on such plan.
       ``(B) Disclosure of assessment framework.--The Board of 
     Governors shall publicly disclose, including on the website 
     of the Board of Governors, the assessment framework that is 
     used to review information under this paragraph and shall 
     provide the public with a notice and comment period before 
     finalizing such assessment framework.''.
       (iv) in paragraph (6), by striking ``nonbank financial 
     company supervised by the Board, any bank holding company,'' 
     and inserting ``bank holding company'';
       (G) in subsection (e)--
       (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ``a nonbank financial 
     company supervised by the Board of Governors or'';
       (ii) in paragraph (3), by striking ``the nonbank financial 
     company supervised by the Board of Governors or'' each place 
     such term appears; and
       (iii) in paragraph (4), by striking ``a nonbank financial 
     company supervised by the Board of Governors or'';
       (H) in subsection (g)(1), by striking ``and any nonbank 
     financial company supervised by the Board of Governors'';
       (I) in subsection (h)--
       (i) by striking paragraph (1);
       (ii) by redesignating paragraphs (2), (3), and (4) as 
     paragraphs (1), (2), and (3), respectively;
       (iii) in paragraph (1), as so redesignated, by striking 
     ``paragraph (3)'' each place such term appears and inserting 
     ``paragraph (2)''; and
       (iv) in paragraph (2), as so redesignated--

       (I) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``the nonbank 
     financial company supervised by the Board of Governors or 
     bank holding company described in subsection (a), as 
     applicable'' and inserting ``a bank holding company described 
     in subsection (a)''; and
       (II) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``the nonbank 
     financial company supervised by the Board of Governors or a 
     bank holding company described in subsection (a), as 
     applicable'' and inserting ``a bank holding company described 
     in subsection (a)'';

       (J) in subsection (i)--
       (i) in paragraph (1)--

       (I) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``, in coordination 
     with the appropriate primary financial regulatory agencies 
     and the Federal Insurance Office,'';
       (II) in subparagraph (B)--

[[Page H6908]]

       (aa) by amending clause (i) to read as follows:
       ``(i) shall--

       ``(I) issue regulations, after providing for public notice 
     and comment, that provide for at least 3 different sets of 
     conditions under which the evaluation required by this 
     subsection shall be conducted, including baseline, adverse, 
     and severely adverse, and methodologies, including models 
     used to estimate losses on certain assets, and the Board of 
     Governors shall not carry out any such evaluation until 60 
     days after such regulations are issued; and
       ``(II) provide copies of such regulations to the 
     Comptroller General of the United States and the Panel of 
     Economic Advisors of the Congressional Budget Office before 
     publishing such regulations;'';

       (bb) in clause (ii), by striking ``and nonbank financial 
     companies'';
       (cc) in clause (iv), by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (dd) in clause (v), by striking the period and inserting 
     the following: ``, including any results of a resubmitted 
     test;''; and
       (ee) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(vi) shall, in establishing the severely adverse 
     condition under clause (i), provide detailed consideration of 
     the model's effects on financial stability and the cost and 
     availability of credit;
       ``(vii) shall, in developing the models and methodologies 
     and providing them for notice and comment under this 
     subparagraph, publish a process to test the models and 
     methodologies for their potential to magnify systemic and 
     institutional risks instead of facilitating increased 
     resiliency;
       ``(viii) shall design and publish a process to test and 
     document the sensitivity and uncertainty associated with the 
     model system's data quality, specifications, and assumptions; 
     and
       ``(ix) shall communicate the range and sources of 
     uncertainty surrounding the models and methodologies.''; and

       (III) by adding at the end the following:

       ``(C) CCAR requirements.--
       ``(i) Parameters and consequences applicable to ccar.--The 
     requirements of subparagraph (B) shall apply to CCAR.
       ``(ii) Two-year limitation.--The Board of Governors may not 
     subject a company to CCAR more than once every two years.
       ``(iii) Mid-cycle resubmission.--If a company receives a 
     quantitative objection to, or otherwise desires to amend the 
     company's capital plan, the company may file a new 
     streamlined plan at any time after a capital planning 
     exercise has been completed and before a subsequent capital 
     planning exercise.
       ``(iv) Limitation on qualitative capital planning 
     objections.--In carrying out CCAR, the Board of Governors may 
     not object to a company's capital plan on the basis of 
     qualitative deficiencies in the company's capital planning 
     process.
       ``(v) Company inquiries.--The Board of Governors shall 
     establish and publish procedures for responding to inquiries 
     from companies subject to CCAR, including establishing the 
     time frame in which such responses will be made, and make 
     such procedures publicly available.
       ``(vi) CCAR defined.--For purposes of this subparagraph and 
     subparagraph (E), the term `CCAR' means the Comprehensive 
     Capital Analysis and Review established by the Board of 
     Governors.'';
       (ii) in paragraph (2)--

       (I) in subparagraph (A)--

       (aa) by striking ``a bank holding company'' and inserting 
     ``bank holding company'';
       (bb) by striking ``semiannual'' and inserting ``annual'';
       (cc) by striking ``All other financial companies'' and 
     inserting ``All other bank holding companies''; and
       (dd) by striking ``and are regulated by a primary Federal 
     financial regulatory agency'';

       (II) in subparagraph (B)--

       (aa) by striking ``and to its primary financial regulatory 
     agency''; and
       (bb) by striking ``primary financial regulatory agency'' 
     the second time it appears and inserting ``Board of 
     Governors''; and

       (III) in subparagraph (C)--

       (aa) by striking ``Each Federal primary financial 
     regulatory agency, in coordination with the Board of 
     Governors and the Federal Insurance Office,'' and inserting 
     ``The Board of Governors''; and
       (bb) by striking ``consistent and comparable''; and
       (iii) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(3) Accountability and appropriateness in bank holding 
     company stress tests.--
       ``(A) Quality and accountability assurance.--No annual test 
     or exercise conducted by the Board of Governors under this 
     subsection or any other provision of law shall serve as a 
     basis for restricting a capital distribution by a bank 
     holding company unless the Board of Governor's Vice Chair for 
     Supervision certifies in writing to the Congress that any 
     model or combination of models used therein are demonstrably 
     more accurate than any similar model or combination of models 
     utilized by the bank holding company in a stress test 
     conducted under paragraph (2).
       ``(B) Process.--Any action taken by the Board of Governors 
     to restrict a capital distribution by a bank holding company 
     on the basis of a stress test or exercise conducted by the 
     Board of Governors under this subsection or any other 
     provision of law shall be conducted pursuant to a capital 
     directive subject to, and issued in accordance with, section 
     908(b)(2) of the International Lending Supervision Act of 
     1983 (12 U.S.C. 3907(b)(2).'';
       (K) in subsection (j)--
       (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ``or a nonbank financial 
     company supervised by the Board of Governors''; and
       (ii) in paragraph (2), by striking ``the factors described 
     in subsections (a) and (b) of section 113 and any other'' and 
     inserting ``any''; and
       (L) in subsection (k)(1), by striking ``or nonbank 
     financial company supervised by the Board of Governors''.
       (c) Treatment of Other Resolution Plan Requirements.--
       (1) In general.--With respect to an appropriate Federal 
     banking agency that requires a banking organization to submit 
     to the agency a resolution plan not described under section 
     165(d) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer 
     Protection Act--
       (A) the agency shall comply with the requirements of 
     paragraphs (3) and (4) of such section 165(d);
       (B) the agency may not require the submission of such a 
     resolution plan more often than every 2 years; and
       (C) paragraphs (6) and (7) of such section 165(d) shall 
     apply to such a resolution plan.
       (2) Definitions.--For purposes of this subsection, the 
     terms ``appropriate Federal banking agency'' and ``banking 
     organization'' have the meaning given those terms, 
     respectively, under section 105.
       (d) Actions to Create a Bank Holding Company.--Section 
     3(b)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
     1842(b)(1)) is amended--
       (1) by striking ``Upon receiving'' and inserting the 
     following:
       ``(A) In general.--Upon receiving'';
       (2) by striking ``Notwithstanding any other provision'' and 
     inserting the following:
       ``(B) Immediate action.--
       ``(i) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision''; 
     and
       (3) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(ii) Exception.--The Board may not take any action 
     pursuant to clause (i) on an application that would cause any 
     company to become a bank holding company unless such 
     application involves the company acquiring a bank that is 
     critically undercapitalized (as such term is defined under 
     section 38(b) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act).''.
       (e) Concentration Limits Applied Only to Banking 
     Organizations.--Section 14 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 
     1956 (12 U.S.C. 1852) is amended--
       (1) by striking ``financial company'' each place such term 
     appears and inserting ``banking organization'';
       (2) in subsection (a)--
       (A) by amending paragraph (2) to read as follows:
       ``(2) the term `banking organization' means--
       ``(A) an insured depository institution;
       ``(B) a bank holding company;
       ``(C) a savings and loan holding company;
       ``(D) a company that controls an insured depository 
     institution; and
       ``(E) a foreign bank or company that is treated as a bank 
     holding company for purposes of this Act; and'';
       (B) in paragraph (3)--
       (i) in subparagraph (A)(ii), by adding ``and'' at the end;
       (ii) in subparagraph (B)(ii), by striking ``; and'' and 
     inserting a period; and
       (iii) by striking subparagraph (C); and
       (3) in subsection (b), by striking ``financial companies'' 
     and inserting ``banking organizations''.
       (f) Conforming Amendment.--Section 3502(5) of title 44, 
     United States Code, is amended by striking ``the Office of 
     Financial Research,''.
       (g) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents under 
     section 1(b) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and 
     Consumer Protection Act is amended by striking the items 
     relating to subtitle B of title I and 113, 114, 115, 116, 
     117, 119, 120, 121, 161, 162, 164, 166, 167, 168, 170, 172, 
     174, and 175.


      bringing the federal deposit insurance corporation into the 
                         appropriations process

       Sec. 904. 
       (a) In General.--Section 10(a) of the Federal Deposit 
     Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1820(a)) is amended--
       (1) by striking ``(a) The'' and inserting the following:
       ``(a) Powers.--
       ``(1) In general.--The'';
       (2) by inserting ``, subject to paragraph (2),'' after 
     ``The Board of Directors of the Corporation''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(2) Appropriations requirement.--Except as provided under 
     paragraph (3), the Corporation may, only to the extent as 
     provided in advance by appropriations Acts, cover the costs 
     incurred in carrying out the provisions of this Act, 
     including with respect to the administrative costs of the 
     Corporation and the costs of the examination and supervision 
     of insured depository institutions.
       ``(3) Exception for certain programs.--Paragraph (2) shall 
     not apply to the Corporation's Insurance Business Line 
     Programs and Receivership Management Business Line Programs, 
     as in existence on the date of enactment of this paragraph, 
     and the proportion of the administrative costs of the 
     Corporation related to such programs.''.
       (b) Examination Fees.--Section 10(e)(1) of the Federal 
     Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C.

[[Page H6909]]

     1820(e)(1)) is amended by striking ``to meet the expenses of 
     the Corporation in carrying out such examinations'' and 
     inserting ``and may be expended by the Board only to the 
     extent as provided in advance by appropriations Acts to cover 
     the costs incurred in carrying out such examinations''.
       (c) Offset of Additional Fees.--The Federal Deposit 
     Insurance Corporation shall reduce the amount of insurance 
     premiums charged by the Corporation under the Federal Deposit 
     Insurance Act in an amount equal to any additional fees 
     charged by the Corporation by reason of the amendments made 
     by this section.
       (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section 
     shall apply with respect to expenses paid and fees collected 
     on or after October 1, 2018.


  bringing the federal housing finance agency into the appropriations 
                                process

       Sec. 905. 
       (a) In General.--Section 1316 of the Housing and Community 
     Development Act of 1992 (12 U.S.C. 4516) is amended--
       (1) by amending subsection (a) to read as follows:
       ``(a) Appropriations Requirement.--
       ``(1) Recovery of costs of annual appropriation.--The 
     Agency shall collect assessments and other fees that are 
     designed to recover the costs to the Government of the annual 
     appropriation to the Agency by Congress.
       ``(2) Offsetting collections.--Assessments and other fees 
     described under paragraph (1) for any fiscal year--
       ``(A) shall be deposited and credited as offsetting 
     collections to the account providing appropriations to the 
     Agency; and
       ``(B) shall not be collected for any fiscal year except to 
     the extent provided in advance in appropriation Acts.''; and
       (2) by striking subsection (f).
       (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section 
     shall apply with respect to expenses paid and assessments and 
     other fees collected on or after October 1, 2018.


  bringing the examination and supervision functions of the national 
      credit union administration into the appropriations process

       Sec. 906. 
       (a) Operating Fees.--Section 105(d) of the Federal Credit 
     Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1755(d)) is amended--
       (1) by striking ``All'' and inserting ``(1) All'';
       (2) by striking ``for the account of the Administration and 
     may be expended by the Board to defray the expenses incurred 
     in carrying out the provisions of this Act including the 
     examination and supervision of Federal credit unions'' and 
     inserting ``and may be expended by the Board only to the 
     extent as provided in advance by appropriations Acts, to 
     cover the costs incurred in carrying out the provisions of 
     this Act with respect to the costs of the examination and 
     supervision of Federal credit unions and the proportion of 
     the administrative costs of the Board related to the 
     examination and supervision of Federal credit unions''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(2)(A) The Board may only use amounts in the NCUA 
     Operating Fund to the extent as provided in advance by 
     appropriations Acts, including to pay for the costs incurred 
     by the Board in carrying out the examination and supervision 
     of Federal credit unions and the proportion of the 
     administrative costs of the Board related to the examination 
     and supervision of Federal credit unions.
       ``(B) Subparagraph (A) shall not apply to the Board's 
     activities carried out pursuant to title II.''.
       (b) Staff Funding.--Section 120(j)(3) of the Federal Credit 
     Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1766(j)(3)) is amended--
       (1) by inserting ``related to the examination and 
     supervision of Federal credit unions under this Act and the 
     proportion of the administrative costs of the Board related 
     to the examination and supervision of Federal credit unions 
     under this Act'' before ``shall be paid''; and
       (2) by striking ``insured credit unions under this Act'' 
     and inserting ``Federal credit unions under this title, only 
     to the extent as provided in advance by appropriations 
     Acts''.
       (c) Use of Deposit Funds.--Section 202(c)(1)(B)(iv) of the 
     Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1782(c)(1)(B)(iv)) is 
     amended--
       (1) by striking ``The'' and inserting ``To the extent 
     provided for in advance by appropriations Acts, the''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following new sentence: ``This 
     clause shall not apply to the Board's activities carried out 
     pursuant to this title.''.
       (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section 
     shall apply with respect to expenses paid and fees collected 
     on or after October 1, 2018.


    bringing the office of the comptroller of the currency into the 
                         appropriations process

       Sec. 907. 
       (a) In General.--Section 5240A of the Revised Statutes of 
     the United States (12 U.S.C. 16) is amended--
       (1) by striking ``Sec. 5240A. The Comptroller of the 
     Currency may collect an assessment, fee, or other charge from 
     any entity described in section 3(q)(1) of the Federal 
     Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(q)(1)), as the 
     Comptroller determines is necessary or appropriate to carry 
     out the responsibilities of the Office of the Comptroller of 
     the Currency. In establishing the amount of an assessment, 
     fee, or charge collected from an entity under this section,'' 
     and inserting the following:

     ``SEC. 5240A. COLLECTION OF FEES; APPROPRIATIONS REQUIREMENT.

       ``(a) In General.--In establishing the amount of an 
     assessment, fee, or charge collected from an entity under 
     subsection (b),'';
       (2) by striking ``Funds derived'' and all that follows 
     through the end of the section; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(b) Appropriations Requirement.--
       ``(1) Recovery of costs of annual appropriation.--The 
     Comptroller of the Currency shall impose and collect 
     assessments, fees, or other charges that are designed to 
     recover the costs to the Government of the annual 
     appropriation to the Office of the Comptroller of the 
     Currency by Congress.
       ``(2) Offsetting collections.--Assessments and other fees 
     described under paragraph (1) for any fiscal year--
       ``(A) shall be deposited and credited as offsetting 
     collections to the account providing appropriations to the 
     Office of the Comptroller of the Currency; and
       ``(B) shall not be collected for any fiscal year except to 
     the extent provided in advance in appropriation Acts.''.
       (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 5240 (12 U.S.C. 481 et 
     seq.) of the Revised Statutes of the United States is amended 
     by striking the fourth undesignated paragraph.
       (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section 
     shall apply with respect to expenses paid and fees collected 
     on or after October 1, 2018.


  bringing the non-monetary policy related functions of the board of 
governors of the federal reserve system into the appropriations process

       Sec. 908. 
       (a) In General.--The Federal Reserve Act is amended by 
     inserting after section 11B the following:

     ``SEC. 11C. APPROPRIATIONS REQUIREMENT FOR NON-MONETARY 
                   POLICY RELATED ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS.

       ``(a) Appropriations Requirement.--
       ``(1) Recovery of costs of annual appropriation.--The Board 
     of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Federal 
     reserve banks shall collect assessments and other fees, as 
     provided under this Act, that are designed to recover the 
     costs to the Government of the annual appropriation to the 
     Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System by Congress. 
     The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the 
     Federal reserve banks may only incur obligations or allow and 
     pay expenses with respect to non-monetary policy related 
     administrative costs pursuant to an appropriations Act.
       ``(2) Offsetting collections.--Assessments and other fees 
     described under paragraph (1) for any fiscal year--
       ``(A) shall be deposited and credited as offsetting 
     collections to the account providing appropriations to the 
     Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System; and
       ``(B) shall not be collected for any fiscal year except to 
     the extent provided in advance in appropriation Acts.
       ``(3) Limitation.--This subsection shall only apply to the 
     non-monetary policy related administrative costs of the Board 
     of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
       ``(b) Definitions.--For purposes of this section:
       ``(1) Monetary policy.--The term `monetary policy' means a 
     strategy for producing a generally acceptable exchange medium 
     that supports the productive employment of economic resources 
     by reliably serving as both a unit of account and store of 
     value.
       ``(2) Non-monetary policy related administrative costs.--
     The term `non-monetary policy related administrative costs' 
     means administrative costs not related to the conduct of 
     monetary policy, and includes--
       ``(A) direct operating expenses for supervising and 
     regulating entities supervised and regulated by the Board of 
     Governors of the Federal Reserve System, including conducting 
     examinations, conducting stress tests, communicating with the 
     entities regarding supervisory matters and laws, and 
     regulations;
       ``(B) operating expenses for activities integral to 
     carrying out supervisory and regulatory responsibilities, 
     such as training staff in the supervisory function, research 
     and analysis functions including library subscription 
     services, and collecting and processing regulatory reports 
     filed by supervised institutions; and
       ``(C) support, overhead, and pension expenses related to 
     the items described under subparagraphs (A) and (B).''.
       (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section 
     shall apply with respect to expenses paid and fees collected 
     on or after October 1, 2018.


 increased threshold for disclosures relating to compensatory benefit 
                                 plans

       Sec. 909. 
       Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, the Securities and Exchange Commission shall revise 
     section 230.701(e) of title 17, Code of Federal Regulations, 
     so as to increase from $5,000,000 to $20,000,000 the 
     aggregate sales price or amount of securities sold during any 
     consecutive 12-month period in excess of which the issuer is 
     required under such section to deliver an additional 
     disclosure to investors. The Commission shall index for 
     inflation such aggregate sales price or amount every 5 years 
     to reflect the change in the Consumer

[[Page H6910]]

     Price Index for All Urban Consumers published by the Bureau 
     of Labor Statistics, rounding to the nearest $1,000,000.


         refunding or crediting overpayment of section 31 fees

       Sec. 910. 
       (a) In General.--Section 31 of the Securities Exchange Act 
     of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78ee) is amended by adding at the end the 
     following:
       ``(n) Overpayment.--If a national securities exchange or 
     national securities association pays to the Commission an 
     amount in excess of fees and assessments due under this 
     section and informs the Commission of such amount paid in 
     excess within 10 years of the date of the payment, the 
     Commission shall offset future fees and assessments due by 
     such exchange or association in an amount equal to such 
     excess amount.''.
       (b) Applicability.--The amendment made by this section 
     shall apply to any fees and assessments paid before, on, or 
     after the date of enactment of this section.


                safe harbor for investment fund research

       Sec. 911. 
       (a) Expansion of the Safe Harbor.--Not later than the end 
     of the 45-day period beginning on the date of enactment of 
     this Act, the Securities and Exchange Commission shall 
     propose, and not later than the end of the 120-day period 
     beginning on such date, the Commission shall adopt, upon such 
     terms, conditions, or requirements as the Commission may 
     determine necessary or appropriate in the public interest, 
     for the protection of investors, and for the promotion of 
     capital formation, revisions to section 230.139 of title 17, 
     Code of Federal Regulations, to provide that a covered 
     investment fund research report that is published or 
     distributed by a broker or dealer--
       (1) shall be deemed, for purposes of sections 2(a)(10) and 
     5(c) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77b(a)(10), 
     77e(c)), not to constitute an offer for sale or an offer to 
     sell a security that is the subject of an offering pursuant 
     to a registration statement that is effective, even if the 
     broker or dealer is participating or will participate in the 
     registered offering of the covered investment fund's 
     securities; and
       (2) shall be deemed to satisfy the conditions of subsection 
     (a)(1) or (a)(2) of section 230.139 of title 17, Code of 
     Federal Regulations, or any successor provisions, for 
     purposes of the Commission's rules and regulations under the 
     Federal securities laws and the rules of any self-regulatory 
     organization.
       (b) Implementation of Safe Harbor.--In implementing the 
     safe harbor pursuant to subsection (a), the Commission 
     shall--
       (1) not, in the case of a covered investment fund with a 
     class of securities in substantially continuous distribution, 
     condition the safe harbor on whether the broker's or dealer's 
     publication or distribution of a covered investment fund 
     research report constitutes such broker's or dealer's 
     initiation or reinitiation of research coverage on such 
     covered investment fund or its securities;
       (2) not--
       (A) require the covered investment fund to have been 
     registered as an investment company under the Investment 
     Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1 et seq.) or subject to 
     the reporting requirements of section 13 or 15(d) of the 
     Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m, 78o(d)) for 
     any period exceeding the period of time referenced under 
     paragraph (a)(1)(i)(A)(1) of section 230.139 of title 17, 
     Code of Federal Regulations; or
       (B) impose a minimum float provision exceeding that 
     referenced in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(A)(1)(i) of section 230.139 
     of title 17, Code of Federal Regulations;
       (3) provide that a self-regulatory organization may not 
     maintain or enforce any rule that would--
       (A) prohibit the ability of a member to publish or 
     distribute a covered investment fund research report solely 
     because the member is also participating in a registered 
     offering or other distribution of any securities of such 
     covered investment fund; or
       (B) prohibit the ability of a member to participate in a 
     registered offering or other distribution of securities of a 
     covered investment fund solely because the member has 
     published or distributed a covered investment fund research 
     report about such covered investment fund or its securities; 
     and
       (4) provide that a covered investment fund research report 
     shall not be subject to section 24(b) of the Investment 
     Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-24(b)) or the rules and 
     regulations thereunder, except that such report may still be 
     subject to such section and the rules and regulations 
     thereunder to the extent that it is otherwise not subject to 
     the content standards in the rules of any self-regulatory 
     organization related to research reports, including those 
     contained in the rules governing communications with the 
     public regarding investment companies or substantially 
     similar standards.
       (c) Rules of Construction.--Nothing in this Act shall be 
     construed as in any way limiting--
       (1) the applicability of the antifraud or antimanipulation 
     provisions of the Federal securities laws and rules adopted 
     thereunder to a covered investment fund research report, 
     including section 17 of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 
     77q), section 34(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 
     U.S.C. 80a-33), and sections 9 and 10 of the Securities 
     Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78i, 78j); or
       (2) the authority of any self-regulatory organization to 
     examine or supervise a member's practices in connection with 
     such member's publication or distribution of a covered 
     investment fund research report for compliance with 
     applicable provisions of the Federal securities laws or self-
     regulatory organization rules related to research reports, 
     including those contained in rules governing communications 
     with the public.
       (d) Interim Effectiveness of Safe Harbor.--
       (1) In general.--From and after the 120-day period 
     beginning on the date of enactment of this Act, if the 
     Commission has not adopted revisions to section 230.139 of 
     title 17, Code of Federal Regulations, as required by 
     subsection (a), and until such time as the Commission has 
     done so, a broker or dealer distributing or publishing a 
     covered investment fund research report after such date shall 
     be able to rely on the provisions of section 230.139 of title 
     17, Code of Federal Regulations, and the broker or dealer's 
     publication of such report shall be deemed to satisfy the 
     conditions of subsection (a)(1) or (a)(2) of section 230.139 
     of title 17, Code of Federal Regulations, if the covered 
     investment fund that is the subject of such report satisfies 
     the reporting history requirements (without regard to Form S-
     3 or Form F-3 eligibility) and minimum float provisions of 
     such subsections for purposes of the Commission's rules and 
     regulations under the Federal securities laws and the rules 
     of any self-regulatory organization, as if revised and 
     implemented in accordance with subsections (a) and (b).
       (2) Status of covered investment fund.--After such period 
     and until the Commission has adopted revisions to section 
     230.139 and FINRA has revised rule 2210, for purposes of 
     subsection (c)(7)(O) of such rule, a covered investment fund 
     shall be deemed to be a security that is listed on a national 
     securities exchange and that is not subject to section 24(b) 
     of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-24(b)). 
     Communications concerning only covered investment funds that 
     fall within the scope of such section shall not be required 
     to be filed with FINRA.
       (e) Definitions.--For purposes of this section:
       (1) The term ``covered investment fund research report'' 
     means a research report published or distributed by a broker 
     or dealer about a covered investment fund or any securities 
     issued by the covered investment fund, but not including a 
     research report to the extent that it is published or 
     distributed by the covered investment fund or any affiliate 
     of the covered investment fund.
       (2) The term ``covered investment fund'' means--
       (A) an investment company registered under, or that has 
     filed an election to be treated as a business development 
     company under, the Investment Company Act of 1940 and that 
     has filed a registration statement under the Securities Act 
     of 1933 for the public offering of a class of its securities, 
     which registration statement has been declared effective by 
     the Commission; and
       (B) a trust or other person--
       (i) issuing securities in an offering registered under the 
     Securities Act of 1933 and which class of securities is 
     listed for trading on a national securities exchange;
       (ii) the assets of which consist primarily of commodities, 
     currencies, or derivative instruments that reference 
     commodities or currencies, or interests in the foregoing; and
       (iii) that provides in its registration statement under the 
     Securities Act of 1933 that a class of its securities are 
     purchased or redeemed, subject to conditions or limitations, 
     for a ratable share of its assets.
       (3) The term ``FINRA'' means the Financial Industry 
     Regulatory Authority.
       (4) The term ``research report'' has the meaning given that 
     term under section 2(a)(3) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 
     U.S.C. 77b(a)(3)), except that such term shall not include an 
     oral communication.
       (5) The term ``self-regulatory organization'' has the 
     meaning given to that term under section 3(a)(26) of the 
     Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(26)).


    annual review of government-business forum on capital formation

       Sec. 912. 
       Section 503 of the Small Business Investment Incentive Act 
     of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 80c-1) is amended by adding at the end the 
     following:
       ``(e) The Commission shall--
       ``(1) review the findings and recommendations of the forum; 
     and
       ``(2) each time the forum submits a finding or 
     recommendation to the Commission, promptly issue a public 
     statement--
       ``(A) assessing the finding or recommendation of the forum; 
     and
       ``(B) disclosing the action, if any, the Commission intends 
     to take with respect to the finding or recommendation.''.


                    helping angles lead our startups

       Sec. 913. 
       (a) Definition of Angel Investor Group.--As used in this 
     subtitle, the term ``angel investor group'' means any group 
     that--
       (1) is composed of accredited investors interested in 
     investing personal capital in early-stage companies;
       (2) holds regular meetings and has defined processes and 
     procedures for making investment decisions, either 
     individually or among the membership of the group as a whole; 
     and
       (3) is neither associated nor affiliated with brokers, 
     dealers, or investment advisers.
       (b) Clarification of General Solicitation.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 6 months after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, the Securities and Exchange Commission 
     shall

[[Page H6911]]

     revise Regulation D of its rules (17 CFR 230.500 et seq.) to 
     require that in carrying out the prohibition against general 
     solicitation or general advertising contained in section 
     230.502(c) of title 17, Code of Federal Regulations, the 
     prohibition shall not apply to a presentation or other 
     communication made by or on behalf of an issuer which is made 
     at an event--
       (A) sponsored by--
       (i) the United States or any territory thereof, by the 
     District of Columbia, by any State, by a political 
     subdivision of any State or territory, or by any agency or 
     public instrumentality of any of the foregoing;
       (ii) a college, university, or other institution of higher 
     education;
       (iii) a nonprofit organization;
       (iv) an angel investor group;
       (v) a venture forum, venture capital association, or trade 
     association; or
       (vi) any other group, person or entity as the Securities 
     and Exchange Commission may determine by rule;
       (B) where any advertising for the event does not reference 
     any specific offering of securities by the issuer;
       (C) the sponsor of which--
       (i) does not make investment recommendations or provide 
     investment advice to event attendees;
       (ii) does not engage in an active role in any investment 
     negotiations between the issuer and investors attending the 
     event;
       (iii) does not charge event attendees any fees other than 
     administrative fees; and
       (iv) does not receive any compensation with respect to such 
     event that would require registration of the sponsor as a 
     broker or a dealer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 
     or as an investment advisor under the Investment Advisers Act 
     of 1940; and
       (D) where no specific information regarding an offering of 
     securities by the issuer is communicated or distributed by or 
     on behalf of the issuer, other than--
       (i) that the issuer is in the process of offering 
     securities or planning to offer securities;
       (ii) the type and amount of securities being offered;
       (iii) the amount of securities being offered that have 
     already been subscribed for; and
       (iv) the intended use of proceeds of the offering.
       (2) Rule of construction.--Paragraph (1) may only be 
     construed as requiring the Securities and Exchange Commission 
     to amend the requirements of Regulation D with respect to 
     presentations and communications, and not with respect to 
     purchases or sales.


        investor limitation for qualifying venture capital funds

       Sec. 914. 
       Section 3(c)(1) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 
     U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(1)) is amended--
       (1) by inserting after ``one hundred persons'' the 
     following: ``(or, with respect to a qualifying venture 
     capital fund, 500 persons)''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(C) The term `qualifying venture capital fund' means any 
     venture capital fund (as defined pursuant to section 
     203(l)(1) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 
     80b-3(l)(1)) with no more than $50,000,000 in aggregate 
     capital contributions and uncalled committed capital, as such 
     dollar amount is annually adjusted by the Commission to 
     reflect the change in the Consumer Price Index for All Urban 
     Consumers published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the 
     Department of Labor.''.


                          manufactured housing

       Sec. 915. 
       (a) Mortgage Originator Definition.--Section 103 of the 
     Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1602) is amended--
       (1) by redesignating the second subsection (cc) and 
     subsection (dd) as subsections (dd) and (ee), respectively; 
     and
       (2) in paragraph (2)(C) of subsection (dd), as so 
     redesignated, by striking ``an employee of a retailer of 
     manufactured homes who is not described in clause (i) or 
     (iii) of subparagraph (A) and who does not advise a consumer 
     on loan terms (including rates, fees, and other costs)'' and 
     inserting ``a retailer of manufactured or modular homes or 
     its employees unless such retailer or its employees receive 
     compensation or gain for engaging in activities described in 
     subparagraph (A) that is in excess of any compensation or 
     gain received in a comparable cash transaction''.
       (b) High-Cost Mortgage Definition.--Section 103 of the 
     Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1602), as amended by 
     subsection (a), is further amended--
       (1) by redesignating subsection (aa) (relating to 
     disclosure of greater amount or percentage), as so designated 
     by section 1100A of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 
     2010, as subsection (bb);
       (2) by redesignating subsection (bb) (relating to high cost 
     mortgages), as so designated by section 1100A of the Consumer 
     Financial Protection Act of 2010, as subsection (aa), and 
     moving such subsection to immediately follow subsection (z); 
     and
       (3) in subsection (aa)(1)(A), as so redesignated--
       (A) in clause (i)(I), by striking ``(8.5 percentage points, 
     if the dwelling is personal property and the transaction is 
     for less than $50,000)'' and inserting ``(10 percentage 
     points if the dwelling is personal property or is a 
     transaction that does not include the purchase of real 
     property on which a dwelling is to be placed, and the 
     transaction is for less than $75,000 (as such amount is 
     adjusted by the Bureau to reflect the change in the Consumer 
     Price Index))''; and
       (B) in clause (ii)--
       (i) in subclause (I), by striking ``or'' at the end; and
       (ii) by adding at the end the following:

       ``(III) in the case of a transaction for less than $75,000 
     (as such amount is adjusted by the Bureau to reflect the 
     change in the Consumer Price Index) in which the dwelling is 
     personal property (or is a consumer credit transaction that 
     does not include the purchase of real property on which a 
     dwelling is to be placed) the greater of 5 percent of the 
     total transaction amount or $3,000 (as such amount is 
     adjusted by the Bureau to reflect the change in the Consumer 
     Price Index); or''.


    requirements for deposit account termination requests and orders

       Sec. 916. 
       (a) Termination Requests or Orders Must Be Material.--
       (1) In general.--An appropriate Federal banking agency may 
     not formally or informally request or order a depository 
     institution to terminate a specific customer account or group 
     of customer accounts or to otherwise restrict or discourage a 
     depository institution from entering into or maintaining a 
     banking relationship with a specific customer or group of 
     customers unless--
       (A) the agency has a material reason for such request or 
     order; and
       (B) such reason is not based solely on reputation risk.
       (2) Treatment of national security threats.--If an 
     appropriate Federal banking agency believes a specific 
     customer or group of customers is, or is acting as a conduit 
     for, an entity which--
       (A) poses a threat to national security;
       (B) is involved in terrorist financing;
       (C) is an agency of the government of Iran, North Korea, 
     Syria, or any country listed from time to time on the State 
     Sponsors of Terrorism list;
       (D) is located in, or is subject to the jurisdiction of, 
     any country specified in subparagraph (C); or
       (E) does business with any entity described in subparagraph 
     (C) or (D), unless the appropriate Federal banking agency 
     determines that the customer or group of customers has used 
     due diligence to avoid doing business with any entity 
     described in subparagraph (C) or (D),
     such belief shall satisfy the requirement under paragraph 
     (1).
       (b) Notice Requirement.--
       (1) In general.--If an appropriate Federal banking agency 
     formally or informally requests or orders a depository 
     institution to terminate a specific customer account or a 
     group of customer accounts, the agency shall--
       (A) provide such request or order to the institution in 
     writing; and
       (B) accompany such request or order with a written 
     justification for why such termination is needed, including 
     any specific laws or regulations the agency believes are 
     being violated by the customer or group of customers, if any.
       (2) Justification requirement.--A justification described 
     under paragraph (1)(B) may not be based solely on the 
     reputation risk to the depository institution.
       (c) Customer Notice.--
       (1) Notice required.--Except as provided under paragraph 
     (2), if an appropriate Federal banking agency orders a 
     depository institution to terminate a specific customer 
     account or a group of customer accounts, the depository 
     institution shall inform the customer or customers of the 
     justification for the customer's account termination 
     described under subsection (b).
       (2) Notice prohibited in cases of national security.--If an 
     appropriate Federal banking agency requests or orders a 
     depository institution to terminate a specific customer 
     account or a group of customer accounts based on a belief 
     that the customer or customers pose a threat to national 
     security, or are otherwise described under subsection (a)(2), 
     neither the depository institution nor the appropriate 
     Federal banking agency may inform the customer or customers 
     of the justification for the customer's account termination.
       (d) Reporting Requirement.--Each appropriate Federal 
     banking agency shall issue an annual report to the Congress 
     stating--
       (1) the aggregate number of specific customer accounts that 
     the agency requested or ordered a depository institution to 
     terminate during the previous year; and
       (2) the legal authority on which the agency relied in 
     making such requests and orders and the frequency on which 
     the agency relied on each such authority.
       (e) Definitions.--For purposes of this section:
       (1) Appropriate federal banking agency.--The term 
     ``appropriate Federal banking agency'' means--
       (A) the appropriate Federal banking agency, as defined 
     under section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 
     U.S.C. 1813); and
       (B) the National Credit Union Administration, in the case 
     of an insured credit union.
       (2) Depository institution.--The term ``depository 
     institution'' means--
       (A) a depository institution, as defined under section 3 of 
     the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813); and
       (B) an insured credit union.

[[Page H6912]]

  



    amendments to the financial institutions reform, recovery, and 
                        enforcement act of 1989

       Sec. 917. 
       Section 951 of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, 
     and Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 U.S.C. 1833a) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (c)(2), by striking ``affecting a 
     federally insured financial institution'' and inserting 
     ``against a federally insured financial institution or by a 
     federally insured financial institution against an 
     unaffiliated third person''; and
       (2) in subsection (g)--
       (A) in the heading, by striking ``Subpoenas'' and inserting 
     ``Investigations''; and
       (B) by amending paragraph (1)(C) to read as follows:
       ``(C) summon witnesses and require the production of any 
     books, papers, correspondence, memoranda, or other records 
     which the Attorney General deems relevant or material to the 
     inquiry, if the Attorney General--
       ``(i) requests a court order from a court of competent 
     jurisdiction for such actions and offers specific and 
     articulable facts showing that there are reasonable grounds 
     to believe that the information or testimony sought is 
     relevant and material for conducting an investigation under 
     this section; or
       ``(ii) either personally or through delegation no lower 
     than the Deputy Attorney General, issues and signs a subpoena 
     for such actions and such subpoena is supported by specific 
     and articulable facts showing that there are reasonable 
     grounds to believe that the information or testimony sought 
     is relevant for conducting an investigation under this 
     section.''.


            safe harbor for certain loans held on portfolio

       Sec. 918. 
       (a) In General.--Section 129C of the Truth in Lending Act 
     (15 U.S.C. 1639c) is amended by adding at the end the 
     following:
       ``(j) Safe Harbor for Certain Loans Held on Portfolio.--
       ``(1) Safe harbor for creditors that are depository 
     institutions.--
       ``(A) In general.--A creditor that is a depository 
     institution shall not be subject to suit for failure to 
     comply with subsection (a), (c)(1), or (f)(2) of this section 
     or section 129H with respect to a residential mortgage loan, 
     and the banking regulators shall treat such loan as a 
     qualified mortgage, if--
       ``(i) the creditor has, since the origination of the loan, 
     held the loan on the balance sheet of the creditor; and
       ``(ii) all prepayment penalties with respect to the loan 
     comply with the limitations described under subsection 
     (c)(3).
       ``(B) Exception for certain transfers.--In the case of a 
     depository institution that transfers a loan originated by 
     that institution to another depository institution by reason 
     of the bankruptcy or failure of the originating depository 
     institution or the purchase of the originating depository 
     institution, the depository institution transferring such 
     loan shall be deemed to have complied with the requirement 
     under subparagraph (A)(i).
       ``(2) Safe harbor for mortgage originators.--A mortgage 
     originator shall not be subject to suit for a violation of 
     section 129B(c)(3)(B) for steering a consumer to a 
     residential mortgage loan if--
       ``(A) the creditor of such loan is a depository institution 
     and has informed the mortgage originator that the creditor 
     intends to hold the loan on the balance sheet of the creditor 
     for the life of the loan; and
       ``(B) the mortgage originator informs the consumer that the 
     creditor intends to hold the loan on the balance sheet of the 
     creditor for the life of the loan.
       ``(3) Definitions.--For purposes of this subsection:
       ``(A) Banking regulators.--The term `banking regulators' 
     means the Federal banking agencies, the Bureau, and the 
     National Credit Union Administration.
       ``(B) Depository institution.--The term `depository 
     institution' has the meaning given that term under section 
     19(b)(1) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 505(b)(1)).
       ``(C) Federal banking agencies.--The term `Federal banking 
     agencies' has the meaning given that term under section 3 of 
     the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.''.
       (b) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in the amendment made by 
     this section may be construed as preventing a balloon loan 
     from qualifying for the safe harbor provided under section 
     129C(j) of the Truth in Lending Act if the balloon loan 
     otherwise meets all of the requirements under such subsection 
     (j), regardless of whether the balloon loan meets the 
     requirements described under clauses (i) through (iv) of 
     section 129C(b)(2)(E) of such Act.


  changes required to small bank holding company policy statement on 
             assessment of financial and managerial factors

       Sec. 919. 
       (a) In General.--Before the end of the 6-month period 
     beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the Board 
     of Governors of the Federal Reserve System shall revise the 
     Small Bank Holding Company Policy Statement on Assessment of 
     Financial and Managerial Factors (12 CFR part 225--appendix 
     C) to raise the consolidated asset threshold under such 
     policy statement from $1,000,000,000 (as adjusted by Public 
     Law 113-250) to $10,000,000,000.
       (b) Conforming Amendment.--Subparagraph (C) of section 
     171(b)(5) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer 
     Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5371(b)(5)) is amended to read as 
     follows:
       ``(C) any bank holding company or savings and loan holding 
     company that is subject to the application of the Small Bank 
     Holding Company Policy Statement on Assessment of Financial 
     and Managerial Factors of the Board of Governors (12 CFR part 
     225--appendix C).''.


            community financial institution mortgage relief

       Sec. 920. 
       (a) Exemption From Escrow Requirements for Loans Held by 
     Smaller Creditors.--Section 129D of the Truth in Lending Act 
     (15 U.S.C. 1639d) is amended--
       (1) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(k) Safe Harbor for Loans Held by Smaller Creditors.--
       ``(1) In general.--A creditor shall not be in violation of 
     subsection (a) with respect to a loan if--
       ``(A) the creditor has consolidated assets of 
     $10,000,000,000 or less; and
       ``(B) the creditor holds the loan on the balance sheet of 
     the creditor for the 3-year period beginning on the date of 
     the origination of the loan.
       ``(2) Exception for certain transfers.--In the case of a 
     creditor that transfers a loan to another person by reason of 
     the bankruptcy or failure of the creditor, the purchase of 
     the creditor, or a supervisory act or recommendation from a 
     State or Federal regulator, the creditor shall be deemed to 
     have complied with the requirement under paragraph (1)(B).''; 
     and
       (2) by striking the term ``Board'' each place such term 
     appears and inserting ``Bureau''.
       (b) Modification to Exemption for Small Servicers of 
     Mortgage Loans.--Section 6 of the Real Estate Settlement 
     Procedures Act of 1974 (12 U.S.C. 2605) is amended by adding 
     at the end the following:
       ``(n) Small Servicer Exemption.--The Bureau shall, by 
     regulation, provide exemptions to, or adjustments for, the 
     provisions of this section for a servicer that annually 
     services 20,000 or fewer mortgage loans, in order to reduce 
     regulatory burdens while appropriately balancing consumer 
     protections.''.


               regulations appropriate to business models

       Sec. 921. 
       (a) In General.--For any regulatory action occurring after 
     the date of the enactment of this Act, each Federal financial 
     institutions regulatory agency shall--
       (1) take into consideration the risk profile and business 
     models of each type of institution or class of institutions 
     subject to the regulatory action;
       (2) determine the necessity, appropriateness, and impact of 
     applying such regulatory action to such institutions or 
     classes of institutions; and
       (3) tailor such regulatory action in a manner that limits 
     the regulatory compliance impact, cost, liability risk, and 
     other burdens, as appropriate, for the risk profile and 
     business model of the institution or class of institutions 
     involved.
       (b) Other Considerations.--In carrying out the requirements 
     of subsection (a), each Federal financial institutions 
     regulatory agency shall consider--
       (1) the impact that such regulatory action, both by itself 
     and in conjunction with the aggregate effect of other 
     regulations, has on the ability of the applicable institution 
     or class of institutions to serve evolving and diverse 
     customer needs;
       (2) the potential impact of examination manuals, regulatory 
     actions taken with respect to third-party service providers, 
     or other regulatory directives that may be in conflict or 
     inconsistent with the tailoring of such regulatory action 
     described in subsection (a)(3); and
       (3) the underlying policy objectives of the regulatory 
     action and statutory scheme involved.
       (c) Notice of Proposed and Final Rulemaking.--Each Federal 
     financial institutions regulatory agency shall disclose in 
     every notice of proposed rulemaking and in any final 
     rulemaking for a regulatory action how the agency has applied 
     subsections (a) and (b).
       (d) Reports to Congress.--
       (1) Individual agency reports.--
       (A) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act and annually thereafter, each 
     Federal financial institutions regulatory agency shall report 
     to the Committee on Financial Services of the House of 
     Representatives and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
     Urban Affairs of the Senate on the specific actions taken to 
     tailor the regulatory actions of the agency pursuant to the 
     requirements of this Act.
       (B) Appearance before the committees.--The head of each 
     Federal financial institution regulatory agency shall appear 
     before the Committee on Financial Services of the House of 
     Representatives and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
     Urban Affairs of the Senate after each report is made 
     pursuant to subparagraph (A) to testify on the contents of 
     such report.
       (2) FIEC reports.--
       (A) In general.--Not later than 3 months after each report 
     is submitted under paragraph (1), the Financial Institutions 
     Examination Council shall report to the Committee on 
     Financial Services of the House of Representatives and the 
     Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the 
     Senate on--

[[Page H6913]]

       (i) the extent to which regulatory actions tailored 
     pursuant to this Act result in different treatment of 
     similarly situated institutions of diverse charter types; and
       (ii) the reasons for such differential treatment.
       (B) Appearance before the committees.--The Chairman of the 
     Financial Institutions Examination Council shall appear 
     before the Committee on Financial Services of the House of 
     Representatives and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
     Urban Affairs of the Senate after each report is made 
     pursuant to subparagraph (A) to testify on the contents of 
     such report.
       (e) Limited Look-Back Application.--
       (1) In general.--Each Federal financial institutions 
     regulatory agency shall conduct a review of all regulations 
     adopted during the period beginning on the date that is seven 
     years before the date of the introduction of this Act in the 
     House of Representatives and ending on the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, and apply the requirements of this Act 
     to such regulations.
       (2) Revision.--If the application of the requirements of 
     this Act to any such regulation requires such regulation to 
     be revised, the applicable Federal financial institutions 
     regulatory agency shall revise such regulation within 3 years 
     of the enactment of this Act.
       (f) Definitions.--In this Act, the following definitions 
     shall apply:
       (1) Federal financial institutions regulatory agencies.--
     The term ``Federal financial institutions regulatory 
     agencies'' means the Office of the Comptroller of the 
     Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
     System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the 
     National Credit Union Administration, and the Bureau of 
     Consumer Financial Protection.
       (2) Regulatory action.--The term ``regulatory action'' 
     means any proposed, interim, or final rule or regulation, 
     guidance, or published interpretation.


           eliminating barriers to jobs for loan originators

       Sec. 922. 
       (a) In General.--The S.A.F.E. Mortgage Licensing Act of 
     2008 (12 U.S.C. 5101 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end 
     the following:

     ``SEC. 1518. EMPLOYMENT TRANSITION OF LOAN ORIGINATORS.

       ``(a) Temporary Authority to Originate Loans for Loan 
     Originators Moving From a Depository Institution to a Non-
     depository Institution.--
       ``(1) In general.--Upon employment by a State-licensed 
     mortgage company, an individual who is a registered loan 
     originator shall be deemed to have temporary authority to act 
     as a loan originator in an application State for the period 
     described in paragraph (2) if the individual--
       ``(A) has not had an application for a loan originator 
     license denied, or had such a license revoked or suspended in 
     any governmental jurisdiction;
       ``(B) has not been subject to or served with a cease and 
     desist order in any governmental jurisdiction or as described 
     in section 1514(c);
       ``(C) has not been convicted of a felony that would 
     preclude licensure under the law of the application State;
       ``(D) has submitted an application to be a State-licensed 
     loan originator in the application State; and
       ``(E) was registered in the Nationwide Mortgage Licensing 
     System and Registry as a loan originator during the 12-month 
     period preceding the date of submission of the information 
     required under section 1505(a).
       ``(2) Period.--The period described in paragraph (1) shall 
     begin on the date that the individual submits the information 
     required under section 1505(a) and shall end on the earliest 
     of--
       ``(A) the date that the individual withdraws the 
     application to be a State-licensed loan originator in the 
     application State;
       ``(B) the date that the application State denies, or issues 
     a notice of intent to deny, the application;
       ``(C) the date that the application State grants a State 
     license; or
       ``(D) the date that is 120 days after the date on which the 
     individual submits the application, if the application is 
     listed on the Nationwide Mortgage Licensing System and 
     Registry as incomplete.
       ``(b) Temporary Authority to Originate Loans for State-
     licensed Loan Originators Moving Interstate.--
       ``(1) In general.--A State-licensed loan originator shall 
     be deemed to have temporary authority to act as a loan 
     originator in an application State for the period described 
     in paragraph (2) if the State-licensed loan originator--
       ``(A) meets the requirements of subparagraphs (A), (B), 
     (C), and (D) of subsection (a)(1);
       ``(B) is employed by a State-licensed mortgage company in 
     the application State; and
       ``(C) was licensed in a State that is not the application 
     State during the 30-day period preceding the date of 
     submission of the information required under section 1505(a) 
     in connection with the application submitted to the 
     application State.
       ``(2) Period.--The period described in paragraph (1) shall 
     begin on the date that the State-licensed loan originator 
     submits the information required under section 1505(a) in 
     connection with the application submitted to the application 
     State and end on the earliest of--
       ``(A) the date that the State-licensed loan originator 
     withdraws the application to be a State-licensed loan 
     originator in the application State;
       ``(B) the date that the application State denies, or issues 
     a notice of intent to deny, the application;
       ``(C) the date that the application State grants a State 
     license; or
       ``(D) the date that is 120 days after the date on which the 
     State-licensed loan originator submits the application, if 
     the application is listed on the Nationwide Mortgage 
     Licensing System and Registry as incomplete.
       ``(c) Applicability.--
       ``(1) Any person employing an individual who is deemed to 
     have temporary authority to act as a loan originator in an 
     application State pursuant to this section shall be subject 
     to the requirements of this title and to applicable State law 
     to the same extent as if such individual was a State-licensed 
     loan originator licensed by the application State.
       ``(2) Any individual who is deemed to have temporary 
     authority to act as a loan originator in an application State 
     pursuant to this section and who engages in residential 
     mortgage loan origination activities shall be subject to the 
     requirements of this title and to applicable State law to the 
     same extent as if such individual was a State-licensed loan 
     originator licensed by the application State.
       ``(d) Definitions.--In this section, the following 
     definitions shall apply:
       ``(1) State-licensed mortgage company.--The term `State-
     licensed mortgage company' means an entity licensed or 
     registered under the law of any State to engage in 
     residential mortgage loan origination and processing 
     activities.
       ``(2) Application state.--The term `application State' 
     means a State in which a registered loan originator or a 
     State-licensed loan originator seeks to be licensed.''.
       (b) Table of Contents Amendment.--The table of contents in 
     section 1(b) of the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 
     (42 U.S.C. 4501 note) is amended by inserting after the item 
     relating to section 1517 the following:

``Sec. 1518. Employment transition of loan originators.''.
       (c) Amendment to Civil Liability of the Bureau and Other 
     Officials.--Section 1513 of the S.A.F.E. Mortgage Licensing 
     Act of 2008 (12 U.S.C. 5112) is amended by striking ``are 
     loan originators or are applying for licensing or 
     registration as loan originators'' and inserting ``are 
     applying for licensing or registration using the Nationwide 
     Mortgage Licensing System and Registry''.
       (d) Effective Date.--This section and the amendments made 
     by this section shall take effect on the date that is 18 
     months after the date of the enactment of this Act.


            small business loan data collection requirement

       Sec. 923. 
       (a) Repeal.--Section 704B of the Equal Credit Opportunity 
     Act (15 U.S.C. 1691c-2) is repealed.
       (b) Conforming Amendments.--Section 701(b) of the Equal 
     Credit Opportunity Act (15 U.S.C. 1691(b)) is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (3), by inserting ``or'' at the end;
       (2) in paragraph (4), by striking ``; or'' and inserting a 
     period; and
       (3) by striking paragraph (5).
       (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for title 
     VII of the Consumer Credit Protection Act is amended by 
     striking the item relating to section 704B.


     depository institutions subject to maintenance of records and 
                        disclosure requirements

       Sec. 924. 
       (a) In General.--Section 304 of the Home Mortgage 
     Disclosure Act of 1975 (12 U.S.C. 2803) is amended--
       (1) by redesignating subsection (i) as paragraph (2) and 
     adjusting the margin appropriately; and
       (2) by inserting before such paragraph (2) the following:
       ``(i) Exemptions.--
       ``(1) In general.--With respect to a depository 
     institution, the requirements of subsections (a) and (b) 
     shall not apply--
       ``(A) with respect to closed-end mortgage loans, if such 
     depository institution originated less than 100 closed-end 
     mortgage loans in each of the two preceding calendar years; 
     and
       ``(B) with respect to open-end lines of credit, if such 
     depository institution originated less than 200 open-end 
     lines of credit in each of the two preceding calendar 
     years.''.
       (b) Technical Correction.--Section 304(i)(2) of such Act, 
     as redesignated by subsection (a), is amended by striking 
     ``section 303(2)(A)'' and inserting ``section 303(3)(A)''.


                rate of interest after transfer of loan

       Sec. 925. 
       (a) Amendment to the Revised Statutes.--Section 5197 of the 
     Revised Statutes of the United States (12 U.S.C. 85) is 
     amended by adding at the end the following new sentence: ``A 
     loan that is valid when made as to its maximum rate of 
     interest in accordance with this section shall remain valid 
     with respect to such rate regardless of whether the loan is 
     subsequently sold, assigned, or otherwise transferred to a 
     third party, and may be enforced by such third party 
     notwithstanding any State law to the contrary.''.
       (b) Amendment to the Home Owners' Loan Act.--Section 
     4(g)(1) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1463(g)(1)) 
     is amended by adding at the end the following new sentence: 
     ``A loan that is valid when made as to

[[Page H6914]]

     its maximum rate of interest in accordance with this 
     subsection shall remain valid with respect to such rate 
     regardless of whether the loan is subsequently sold, 
     assigned, or otherwise transferred to a third party, and may 
     be enforced by such third party notwithstanding any State law 
     to the contrary.''.
       (c) Amendment to the Federal Credit Union Act.--Section 
     205(g)(1) of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 
     1785(g)(1)) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
     sentence: ``A loan that is valid when made as to its maximum 
     rate of interest in accordance with this subsection shall 
     remain valid with respect to such rate regardless of whether 
     the loan is subsequently sold, assigned, or otherwise 
     transferred to a third party, and may be enforced by such 
     third party notwithstanding any State law to the contrary.''.
       (d) Amendment to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.--
     Section 27(a) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 
     1831d(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
     sentence: ``A loan that is valid when made as to its maximum 
     rate of interest in accordance with this section shall remain 
     valid with respect to such rate regardless of whether the 
     loan is subsequently sold, assigned, or otherwise transferred 
     to a third party, and may be enforced by such third party 
     notwithstanding any State law to the contrary.''.


      bringing the bureau into the regular appropriations process

       Sec. 926. 
       (a) In General.--Section 1017 of the Consumer Financial 
     Protection Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5497) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)--
       (A) by amending the heading of such subsection to read as 
     follows: ``Budget, Financial Management, and Audit.--'';
       (B) by striking paragraphs (1), (2), and (3);
       (C) by redesignating paragraphs (4) and (5) as paragraphs 
     (1) and (2), respectively; and
       (D) by striking subparagraphs (E) and (F) of paragraph (1), 
     as so redesignated;
       (2) by striking subsections (b) and (c);
       (3) by redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as subsections 
     (b) and (c), respectively; and
       (4) in subsection (c), as so redesignated--
       (A) by striking paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) and inserting 
     the following:
       ``(1) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized 
     to be appropriated to the Bureau for each of fiscal years 
     2018 and 2019 an amount equal to the aggregate amount of 
     funds transferred by the Board of Governors to the Bureau 
     during fiscal year 2015.''; and
       (B) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (2).
       (b) Effective Date.--
       (1) In general.--The amendments made by subsection (a) 
     shall take effect on October 1, 2018.
       (2) Immediate repeal of reviewability provision.--
     Notwithstanding paragraph (1), subparagraph (C) of section 
     1017(a)(2) of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 
     (12 U.S.C. 5497(a)(2)) is repealed effective on the date of 
     the enactment of this Act.


                  elimination of supervision authority

       Sec. 927. 
       (a) In General.--The Consumer Financial Protection Act of 
     2010 (12 U.S.C. 5481 et seq.) is amended--
       (1) in section 1002(15)(B)(ii)(I), by striking 
     ``examination or'';
       (2) in section 1013(a)(1)(B), by striking ``compliance 
     examiners, compliance supervision analysts,'';
       (3) in section 1016(c)--
       (A) in paragraph (5), by striking ``supervisory and''; and
       (B) in paragraph (6), by striking ``orders, and supervisory 
     actions'' and inserting ``and orders'';
       (4) in section 1024--
       (A) in the heading, by striking ``supervision of'' and 
     inserting ``authority with respect to certain'';
       (B) in subsection (a)--
       (i) in paragraph (1)(B), by striking ``as defined by rule 
     in accordance with paragraph (2)'' and inserting ``as of the 
     date of the enactment of the Financial CHOICE Act of 2017'';
       (ii) by striking paragraph (2);
       (iii) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (2); and
       (iv) in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (2), as so 
     redesignated, by striking ``1025(a) or'';
       (C) by striking subsection (b);
       (D) by redesignating subsections (c), (d), (e), and (f) as 
     subsections (b), (c), (d), and (e), respectively;
       (E) in subsection (c), as so redesignated--
       (i) in the heading, by striking ``and Examination 
     Authority''; and
       (ii) by striking ``, conduct examinations,'' each place 
     such term appears;
       (F) in subsection (d), as so redesignated--
       (i) by inserting ``rulemaking and enforcement, but not 
     supervisory,'' before ``authority of the Bureau''; and
       (ii) by striking ``conducting any examination or requiring 
     any report from a service provider subject to this 
     subsection'' and inserting ``carrying out any authority 
     pursuant to this subsection with respect to a service 
     provider'';
       (5) by striking section 1025;
       (6) in section 1026--
       (A) by amending subsection (a) to read as follows:
       ``(a) Scope of Coverage.--This section shall apply to any 
     covered person that is an insured depository institution or 
     an insured credit union.'';
       (B) in subsection (b)(3), by striking ``report of 
     examination or related'';
       (C) by striking subsection (c);
       (D) by redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as subsections 
     (c) and (d), respectively;
       (E) in subsection (c), as so redesignated, by adding at the 
     end the following:
       ``(3) Very large institutions.--
       ``(A) Primary enforcement authority.--Notwithstanding 
     paragraph (1), to the extent that the Bureau and another 
     Federal agency are authorized to enforce a Federal consumer 
     financial law, the Bureau shall have primary authority to 
     enforce that Federal consumer financial law with respect to 
     an insured depository institution or insured credit union, if 
     such depository institution or credit union has total assets 
     of more than $10,000,000,000, and any affiliate thereof.
       ``(B) Referral.--Any Federal agency, other than the Federal 
     Trade Commission, that is authorized to enforce a Federal 
     consumer financial law may recommend, in writing, to the 
     Bureau that the Bureau initiate an enforcement proceeding 
     with respect to a person described in subparagraph (A), as 
     the Bureau is authorized to do by that Federal consumer 
     financial law.
       ``(C) Backup enforcement authority.--If the Bureau does 
     not, before the end of the 120-day period beginning on the 
     date on which the Bureau receives a recommendation under 
     subparagraph (B), initiate an enforcement proceeding, the 
     other agency referred to in subparagraph (B) may initiate an 
     enforcement proceeding.''; and
       (F) in subsection (d), as so redesignated--
       (i) by inserting after ``subsection (a)'' the following: 
     ``, or to any person described under subsection (c)(3)(A),'';
       (ii) by striking ``section 1025'' and inserting ``this 
     section''; and
       (iii) by striking ``When conducting any examination or 
     requiring any report from a service provider subject to this 
     subsection'' and inserting ``In carrying out any authority 
     pursuant to this subsection with respect to a service 
     provider'';
       (7) in section 1027--
       (A) by striking ``supervisory,'' each place such term 
     appears;
       (B) in subsection (e)(1), by striking ``supervisory or''; 
     and
       (C) in subsection (p), by striking ``section 1024(c)(1)'' 
     and inserting ``section 1024(b)(1)'';
       (8) in section 1034--
       (A) by striking subsections (b) and (c); and
       (B) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (b);
       (9) in section 1053--
       (A) in subsection (b)(1)(A), by striking ``sections 1024, 
     1025, and 1026'' and inserting ``sections 1024 and 1026''; 
     and
       (B) in subsection (c)(3)(B)(ii)(II), by striking ``, by 
     examination or otherwise,'';
       (10) in section 1054(a), by striking ``sections 1024, 1025, 
     and 1026'' and inserting ``sections 1024 and 1026'';
       (11) in section 1061--
       (A) in subsection (a)(1)--
       (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``; and'' at the end 
     and inserting a period;
       (ii) by striking ``means--'' and all that follows through 
     ``(A) all'' and inserting ``means all''; and
       (iii) by striking subparagraph (B); and
       (B) in subsection (c)--
       (i) by amending paragraph (1) to read as follows:
       ``(1) Examination.--A transferor agency that is a 
     prudential regulator shall have exclusive authority (relative 
     to the Bureau) to require reports from and conduct 
     examinations for compliance with Federal consumer financial 
     laws with respect to a person described in section 
     1026(a).''; and
       (ii) in paragraph (2)--

       (I) by striking subparagraph (A); and
       (II) by redesignating subparagraphs (B) and (C) as 
     subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively;

       (12) in section 1063, by striking ``sections 1024, 1025, 
     and 1026'' each place such term appears and inserting 
     ``sections 1024 and 1026''; and
       (13) in section 1067, by striking subsection (e).
       (b) Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975.--Section 305(d) 
     of the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975 (12 U.S.C. 
     2804(d)) is amended by striking ``examine and''.
       (c) Omnibus Appropriations Act, 2009.--Section 626 of the 
     Omnibus Appropriations Act, 2009 (15 U.S.C. 1638 note) is 
     repealed.
       (d) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in section 
     1(b) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer 
     Protection Act is amended--
       (1) in the item relating to section 1024, by striking 
     ``SUPERVISION OF'' and inserting ``AUTHORITY WITH RESPECT TO 
     CERTAIN''; and
       (2) by striking the item relating to section 1025.


          removal of authority to regulate small-dollar credit

       Sec. 928. 
       The Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 
     5481 et seq.) is amended--
       (1) in section 1024(a)(1)--
       (A) in subparagraph (C), by adding ``or'' at the end;
       (B) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``; or'' and inserting 
     a period; and
       (C) by striking subparagraph (E); and
       (2) in section 1027, by adding at the end the following:
       ``(t) No Authority to Regulate Small-dollar Credit.--The 
     Bureau may not exercise any rulemaking, enforcement, or other

[[Page H6915]]

     authority with respect to payday loans, vehicle title loans, 
     or other similar loans.''.


                   removal of bureau udaap authority

       Sec. 929. 
       (a) In General.--The Consumer Financial Protection Act of 
     2010 (12 U.S.C. 5481 et seq.) is amended--
       (1) in section 1021(b)(2), by striking ``from unfair, 
     deceptive, or abusive acts and practices and'';
       (2) by striking section 1031;
       (3) in section 1036(a)--
       (A) in paragraph (1)--
       (i) by striking ``provider'' and all that follows through 
     ``to offer'' and inserting ``provider to offer'';
       (ii) by striking subparagraph (B); and
       (B) in paragraph (2)(C), by striking ``; or'' at the end 
     and inserting a period; and
       (C) by striking paragraph (3); and
       (4) in section 1061(b)(5)--
       (A) in subparagraph (B)--
       (i) by striking ``(i) In general.--''; and
       (ii) by striking clause (ii);
       (B) by striking subparagraph (D); and
       (C) by redesignating subparagraph (E) as subparagraph (D); 
     and
       (5) in section 1076(b)(2), by striking ``determine--'' and 
     all that follows through ``(B) provide for'' and inserting 
     ``determine, provide for''.
       (b) Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention 
     Act.--Section 3(c) of the Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud 
     and Abuse Prevention Act (15 U.S.C. 6102) is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``; and'' at the end and 
     inserting a period;
       (2) by striking paragraph (2); and
       (3) by striking ``subsection (a)--'' and all that follows 
     through ``(1) shall'' and inserting ``subsection (a) shall''.
       (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in section 
     1(b) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer 
     Protection Act is amended by striking the item relating to 
     section 1031.


              repeal of authority to restrict arbitration

       Sec. 930. 
       (a) In General.--Section 1028 of the Consumer Financial 
     Protection Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5518) is hereby repealed.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents under 
     section 1(b) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and 
     Consumer Protection Act is amended by striking the item 
     relating to section 1028.


 exemption from risk retention requirements for nonresidential mortgage

       Sec. 931. 
       (a) In General.--Section 15G of the Securities Exchange Act 
     of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-11) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)--
       (A) in paragraph (3)(B), by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (B) in paragraph (4)(B), by striking the period and 
     inserting ``; and''; and
       (C) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(5) the term `asset-backed security' refers only to an 
     asset-backed security that is comprised wholly of residential 
     mortgages.'';
       (2) in subsection (b)--
       (A) by striking paragraph (1); and
       (B) by striking ``(2) Residential mortgages.--'';
       (3) by striking subsection (h) and redesignating subsection 
     (i) as subsection (h); and
       (4) in subsection (h) (as so redesignated)--
       (A) by striking ``effective--'' and all that follows 
     through ``(1) with respect to'' and inserting ``effective 
     with respect to'';
       (B) in paragraph (1), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
     period; and
       (C) by striking paragraph (2).
       (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 941 of the Dodd-Frank 
     Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act is amended by 
     striking subsection (c).


                prohibition on requiring a single ballot

       Sec. 932. 
       Section 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 
     U.S.C. 78n) is amended by adding at the end the following:
       ``(k) Prohibition on Requiring a Single Ballot.--The 
     Commission may not require that a solicitation of a proxy, 
     consent, or authorization to vote a security of an issuer in 
     an election of members of the board of directors of the 
     issuer be made using a single ballot or card that lists both 
     individuals nominated by (or on behalf of) the issuer and 
     individuals nominated by (or on behalf of) other proponents 
     and permits the person granting the proxy, consent, or 
     authorization to select from among individuals in both 
     groups.''.


            repeal of the volcker rule and other provisions

       Sec. 933. 
       (a) In General.--The following sections of title VI of the 
     Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act are 
     repealed, and the provisions of law amended or repealed by 
     such sections are restored or revived as if such sections had 
     not been enacted:
       (1) Section 618.
       (2) Section 619.
       (3) Section 620.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents under 
     section 1(b) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and 
     Consumer Protection Act is amended by striking the items 
     relating to sections 618, 619, and 620.

               TITLE X--FINANCIAL INSTITUTION BANKRUPTCY

     SEC. 1001. SHORT TITLE.

       This title may be cited as the ``Financial Institution 
     Bankruptcy Act of 2017''.

     SEC. 2. GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO COVERED FINANCIAL 
                   CORPORATIONS.

       (a) Definition.--Section 101 of title 11, United States 
     Code, is amended by inserting the following after paragraph 
     (9):
       ``(9A) The term `covered financial corporation' means any 
     corporation incorporated or organized under any Federal or 
     State law, other than a stockbroker, a commodity broker, or 
     an entity of the kind specified in paragraph (2) or (3) of 
     section 109(b), that is--
       ``(A) a bank holding company, as defined in section 2(a) of 
     the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956; or
       ``(B) a corporation that exists for the primary purpose of 
     owning, controlling and financing its subsidiaries, that has 
     total consolidated assets of $50,000,000,000 or greater, and 
     for which, in its most recently completed fiscal year--
       ``(i) annual gross revenues derived by the corporation and 
     all of its subsidiaries from activities that are financial in 
     nature (as defined in section 4(k) of the Bank Holding 
     Company Act of 1956) and, if applicable, from the ownership 
     or control of one or more insured depository institutions, 
     represents 85 percent or more of the consolidated annual 
     gross revenues of the corporation; or
       ``(ii) the consolidated assets of the corporation and all 
     of its subsidiaries related to activities that are financial 
     in nature (as defined in section 4(k) of the Bank Holding 
     Company Act of 1956) and, if applicable, related to the 
     ownership or control of one or more insured depository 
     institutions, represents 85 percent or more of the 
     consolidated assets of the corporation.''.
       (b) Applicability of Chapters.--Section 103 of title 11, 
     United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
     following:
       ``(l) Subchapter V of chapter 11 of this title applies only 
     in a case under chapter 11 concerning a covered financial 
     corporation.''.
       (c) Who May Be a Debtor.--Section 109 of title 11, United 
     States Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (b)--
       (A) in paragraph (2), by striking ``or'' at the end;
       (B) in paragraph (3)(B), by striking the period at the end 
     and inserting ``; or''; and
       (C) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(4) a covered financial corporation.''; and
       (2) in subsection (d)--
       (A) by striking ``and'' before ``an uninsured State member 
     bank'';
       (B) by striking ``or'' before ``a corporation''; and
       (C) by inserting ``, or a covered financial corporation'' 
     after ``Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act 
     of 1991''.
       (d) Conversion to Chapter 7.--Section 1112 of title 11, 
     United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
     following:
       ``(g) Notwithstanding section 109(b), the court may convert 
     a case under subchapter V to a case under chapter 7 if--
       ``(1) a transfer approved under section 1185 has been 
     consummated;
       ``(2) the court has ordered the appointment of a special 
     trustee under section 1186; and
       ``(3) the court finds, after notice and a hearing, that 
     conversion is in the best interest of the creditors and the 
     estate.''.
       (e)(1) Section 726(a)(1) of title 11, United States Code, 
     is amended by inserting after ``first,'' the following: ``in 
     payment of any unpaid fees, costs, and expenses of a special 
     trustee appointed under section 1186, and then''.
       (2) Section 1129(a) of title 11, United States Code, is 
     amended by inserting after paragraph (16) the following:
       ``(17) In a case under subchapter V, all payable fees, 
     costs, and expenses of the special trustee have been paid or 
     the plan provides for the payment of all such fees, costs, 
     and expenses on the effective date of the plan.
       ``(18) In a case under subchapter V, confirmation of the 
     plan is not likely to cause serious adverse effects on 
     financial stability in the United States.''.
       (f) Section 322(b)(2) of title 11, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking ``The'' and inserting ``In cases under 
     subchapter V, the United States trustee shall recommend to 
     the court, and in all other cases, the''.

     SEC. 3. LIQUIDATION, REORGANIZATION, OR RECAPITALIZATION OF A 
                   COVERED FINANCIAL CORPORATION.

       Chapter 11 of title 11, United States Code, is amended by 
     adding at the end the following:

 ``SUBCHAPTER V--LIQUIDATION, REORGANIZATION, OR RECAPITALIZATION OF A 
                     COVERED FINANCIAL CORPORATION

     ``Sec. 1181. Inapplicability of other sections

       ``Sections 303 and 321(c) do not apply in a case under this 
     subchapter concerning a covered financial corporation. 
     Section 365 does not apply to a transfer under section 1185, 
     1187, or 1188.

     ``Sec. 1182. Definitions for this subchapter

       ``In this subchapter, the following definitions shall 
     apply:
       ``(1) The term `Board' means the Board of Governors of the 
     Federal Reserve System.
       ``(2) The term `bridge company' means a newly formed 
     corporation to which property of the estate may be 
     transferred under section 1185(a) and the equity securities 
     of which may be transferred to a special trustee under 
     section 1186(a).
       ``(3) The term `capital structure debt' means all unsecured 
     debt of the debtor for borrowed money for which the debtor is 
     the

[[Page H6916]]

     primary obligor, other than a qualified financial contract 
     and other than debt secured by a lien on property of the 
     estate that is to be transferred to a bridge company pursuant 
     to an order of the court under section 1185(a).
       ``(4) The term `contractual right' means a contractual 
     right of a kind defined in section 555, 556, 559, 560, or 
     561.
       ``(5) The term `qualified financial contract' means any 
     contract of a kind defined in paragraph (25), (38A), (47), or 
     (53B) of section 101, section 741(7), or paragraph (4), (5), 
     (11), or (13) of section 761.
       ``(6) The term `special trustee' means the trustee of a 
     trust formed under section 1186(a)(1).

     ``Sec. 1183. Commencement of a case concerning a covered 
       financial corporation

       ``(a) A case under this subchapter concerning a covered 
     financial corporation may be commenced by the filing of a 
     petition with the court by the debtor under section 301 only 
     if the debtor states to the best of its knowledge under 
     penalty of perjury in the petition that it is a covered 
     financial corporation.
       ``(b) The commencement of a case under subsection (a) 
     constitutes an order for relief under this subchapter.
       ``(c) The members of the board of directors (or body 
     performing similar functions) of a covered financial 
     corporation shall have no liability to shareholders, 
     creditors, or other parties in interest for a good faith 
     filing of a petition to commence a case under this 
     subchapter, or for any reasonable action taken in good faith 
     in contemplation of such a petition or a transfer under 
     section 1185 or section 1186, whether prior to or after 
     commencement of the case.
       ``(d) Counsel to the debtor shall provide, to the greatest 
     extent practicable without disclosing the identity of the 
     potential debtor, sufficient confidential notice to the chief 
     judge of the court of appeals for the circuit embracing the 
     district in which such counsel intends to file a petition to 
     commence a case under this subchapter regarding the potential 
     commencement of such case. The chief judge of such court 
     shall randomly assign to preside over such case a bankruptcy 
     judge selected from among the bankruptcy judges designated by 
     the Chief Justice of the United States under section 298 of 
     title 28.

     ``Sec. 1184. Regulators

       ``The Board, the Securities Exchange Commission, the Office 
     of the Comptroller of the Currency of the Department of the 
     Treasury, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, and the 
     Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation may raise and may 
     appear and be heard on any issue in any case or proceeding 
     under this subchapter.

     ``Sec. 1185. Special transfer of property of the estate

       ``(a) On request of the trustee, and after notice and a 
     hearing that shall occur not less than 24 hours after the 
     order for relief, the court may order a transfer under this 
     section of property of the estate, and the assignment of 
     executory contracts, unexpired leases, and qualified 
     financial contracts of the debtor, to a bridge company. Upon 
     the entry of an order approving such transfer, any property 
     transferred, and any executory contracts, unexpired leases, 
     and qualified financial contracts assigned under such order 
     shall no longer be property of the estate. Except as provided 
     under this section, the provisions of section 363 shall apply 
     to a transfer and assignment under this section.
       ``(b) Unless the court orders otherwise, notice of a 
     request for an order under subsection (a) shall consist of 
     electronic or telephonic notice of not less than 24 hours 
     to--
       ``(1) the debtor;
       ``(2) the holders of the 20 largest secured claims against 
     the debtor;
       ``(3) the holders of the 20 largest unsecured claims 
     against the debtor;
       ``(4) counterparties to any debt, executory contract, 
     unexpired lease, and qualified financial contract requested 
     to be transferred under this section;
       ``(5) the Board;
       ``(6) the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation;
       ``(7) the Secretary of the Treasury and the Office of the 
     Comptroller of the Currency of the Treasury;
       ``(8) the Commodity Futures Trading Commission;
       ``(9) the Securities and Exchange Commission;
       ``(10) the United States trustee or bankruptcy 
     administrator; and
       ``(11) each primary financial regulatory agency, as defined 
     in section 2(12) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and 
     Consumer Protection Act, with respect to any affiliate the 
     equity securities of which are proposed to be transferred 
     under this section.
       ``(c) The court may not order a transfer under this section 
     unless the court determines, based upon a preponderance of 
     the evidence, that--
       ``(1) the transfer under this section is necessary to 
     prevent serious adverse effects on financial stability in the 
     United States;
       ``(2) the transfer does not provide for the assumption of 
     any capital structure debt by the bridge company;
       ``(3) the transfer does not provide for the transfer to the 
     bridge company of any property of the estate that is subject 
     to a lien securing a debt, executory contract, unexpired 
     lease or agreement (including a qualified financial contract) 
     of the debtor unless--
       ``(A)(i) the bridge company assumes such debt, executory 
     contract, unexpired lease or agreement (including a qualified 
     financial contract), including any claims arising in respect 
     thereof that would not be allowed secured claims under 
     section 506(a)(1) and after giving effect to such transfer, 
     such property remains subject to the lien securing such debt, 
     executory contract, unexpired lease or agreement (including a 
     qualified financial contract); and
       ``(ii) the court has determined that assumption of such 
     debt, executory contract, unexpired lease or agreement 
     (including a qualified financial contract) by the bridge 
     company is in the best interests of the estate; or
       ``(B) such property is being transferred to the bridge 
     company in accordance with the provisions of section 363;
       ``(4) the transfer does not provide for the assumption by 
     the bridge company of any debt, executory contract, unexpired 
     lease or agreement (including a qualified financial contract) 
     of the debtor secured by a lien on property of the estate 
     unless the transfer provides for such property to be 
     transferred to the bridge company in accordance with 
     paragraph (3)(A) of this subsection;
       ``(5) the transfer does not provide for the transfer of the 
     equity of the debtor;
       ``(6) the trustee has demonstrated that the bridge company 
     is not likely to fail to meet the obligations of any debt, 
     executory contract, qualified financial contract, or 
     unexpired lease assumed and assigned to the bridge company;
       ``(7) the transfer provides for the transfer to a special 
     trustee all of the equity securities in the bridge company 
     and appointment of a special trustee in accordance with 
     section 1186;
       ``(8) after giving effect to the transfer, adequate 
     provision has been made for the fees, costs, and expenses of 
     the estate and special trustee; and
       ``(9) the bridge company will have governing documents, and 
     initial directors and senior officers, that are in the best 
     interest of creditors and the estate.
       ``(d) Immediately before a transfer under this section, the 
     bridge company that is the recipient of the transfer shall--
       ``(1) not have any property, executory contracts, unexpired 
     leases, qualified financial contracts, or debts, other than 
     any property acquired or executory contracts, unexpired 
     leases, or debts assumed when acting as a transferee of a 
     transfer under this section; and
       ``(2) have equity securities that are property of the 
     estate, which may be sold or distributed in accordance with 
     this title.

     ``Sec. 1186. Special trustee

       ``(a)(1) An order approving a transfer under section 1185 
     shall require the trustee to transfer to a qualified and 
     independent special trustee, who is appointed by the court, 
     all of the equity securities in the bridge company that is 
     the recipient of a transfer under section 1185 to hold in 
     trust for the sole benefit of the estate, subject to 
     satisfaction of the special trustee's fees, costs, and 
     expenses. The trust of which the special trustee is the 
     trustee shall be a newly formed trust governed by a trust 
     agreement approved by the court as in the best interests of 
     the estate, and shall exist for the sole purpose of holding 
     and administering, and shall be permitted to dispose of, the 
     equity securities of the bridge company in accordance with 
     the trust agreement.
       ``(2) In connection with the hearing to approve a transfer 
     under section 1185, the trustee shall confirm to the court 
     that the Board has been consulted regarding the identity of 
     the proposed special trustee and advise the court of the 
     results of such consultation.
       ``(b) The trust agreement governing the trust shall 
     provide--
       ``(1) for the payment of the fees, costs, expenses, and 
     indemnities of the special trustee from the assets of the 
     debtor's estate;
       ``(2) that the special trustee provide--
       ``(A) quarterly reporting to the estate, which shall be 
     filed with the court; and
       ``(B) information about the bridge company reasonably 
     requested by a party in interest to prepare a disclosure 
     statement for a plan providing for distribution of any 
     securities of the bridge company if such information is 
     necessary to prepare such disclosure statement;
       ``(3) that for as long as the equity securities of the 
     bridge company are held by the trust, the special trustee 
     shall file a notice with the court in connection with--
       ``(A) any change in a director or senior officer of the 
     bridge company;
       ``(B) any modification to the governing documents of the 
     bridge company; and
       ``(C) any material corporate action of the bridge company, 
     including--
       ``(i) recapitalization;
       ``(ii) a material borrowing;
       ``(iii) termination of an intercompany debt or guarantee;
       ``(iv) a transfer of a substantial portion of the assets of 
     the bridge company; or
       ``(v) the issuance or sale of any securities of the bridge 
     company;
       ``(4) that any sale of any equity securities of the bridge 
     company shall not be consummated until the special trustee 
     consults with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and 
     the Board regarding such sale and discloses the results of 
     such consultation with the court;
       ``(5) that, subject to reserves for payments permitted 
     under paragraph (1) provided for in the trust agreement, the 
     proceeds of the sale

[[Page H6917]]

     of any equity securities of the bridge company by the special 
     trustee be held in trust for the benefit of or transferred to 
     the estate;
       ``(6) the process and guidelines for the replacement of the 
     special trustee; and
       ``(7) that the property held in trust by the special 
     trustee is subject to distribution in accordance with 
     subsection (c).
       ``(c)(1) The special trustee shall distribute the assets 
     held in trust--
       ``(A) if the court confirms a plan in the case, in 
     accordance with the plan on the effective date of the plan; 
     or
       ``(B) if the case is converted to a case under chapter 7, 
     as ordered by the court.
       ``(2) As soon as practicable after a final distribution 
     under paragraph (1), the office of the special trustee shall 
     terminate, except as may be necessary to wind up and conclude 
     the business and financial affairs of the trust.
       ``(d) After a transfer to the special trustee under this 
     section, the special trustee shall be subject only to 
     applicable nonbankruptcy law, and the actions and conduct of 
     the special trustee shall no longer be subject to approval by 
     the court in the case under this subchapter.

     ``Sec. 1187. Temporary and supplemental automatic stay; 
       assumed debt

       ``(a)(1) A petition filed under section 1183 operates as a 
     stay, applicable to all entities, of the termination, 
     acceleration, or modification of any debt, contract, lease, 
     or agreement of the kind described in paragraph (2), or of 
     any right or obligation under any such debt, contract, lease, 
     or agreement, solely because of--
       ``(A) a default by the debtor under any such debt, 
     contract, lease, or agreement; or
       ``(B) a provision in such debt, contract, lease, or 
     agreement, or in applicable nonbankruptcy law, that is 
     conditioned on--
       ``(i) the insolvency or financial condition of the debtor 
     at any time before the closing of the case;
       ``(ii) the commencement of a case under this title 
     concerning the debtor;
       ``(iii) the appointment of or taking possession by a 
     trustee in a case under this title concerning the debtor or 
     by a custodian before the commencement of the case; or
       ``(iv) a credit rating agency rating, or absence or 
     withdrawal of a credit rating agency rating--
       ``(I) of the debtor at any time after the commencement of 
     the case;
       ``(II) of an affiliate during the period from the 
     commencement of the case until 48 hours after such order is 
     entered;
       ``(III) of the bridge company while the trustee or the 
     special trustee is a direct or indirect beneficial holder of 
     more than 50 percent of the equity securities of--

       ``(aa) the bridge company; or
       ``(bb) the affiliate, if all of the direct or indirect 
     interests in the affiliate that are property of the estate 
     are transferred under section 1185; or

       ``(IV) of an affiliate while the trustee or the special 
     trustee is a direct or indirect beneficial holder of more 
     than 50 percent of the equity securities of--

       ``(aa) the bridge company; or
       ``(bb) the affiliate, if all of the direct or indirect 
     interests in the affiliate that are property of the estate 
     are transferred under section 1185.

       ``(2) A debt, contract, lease, or agreement described in 
     this paragraph is--
       ``(A) any debt (other than capital structure debt), 
     executory contract, or unexpired lease of the debtor (other 
     than a qualified financial contract);
       ``(B) any agreement under which the debtor issued or is 
     obligated for debt (other than capital structure debt);
       ``(C) any debt, executory contract, or unexpired lease of 
     an affiliate (other than a qualified financial contract); or
       ``(D) any agreement under which an affiliate issued or is 
     obligated for debt.
       ``(3) The stay under this subsection terminates--
       ``(A) for the benefit of the debtor, upon the earliest of--
       ``(i) 48 hours after the commencement of the case;
       ``(ii) assumption of the debt, contract, lease, or 
     agreement by the bridge company under an order authorizing a 
     transfer under section 1185;
       ``(iii) a final order of the court denying the request for 
     a transfer under section 1185; or
       ``(iv) the time the case is dismissed; and
       ``(B) for the benefit of an affiliate, upon the earliest 
     of--
       ``(i) the entry of an order authorizing a transfer under 
     section 1185 in which the direct or indirect interests in the 
     affiliate that are property of the estate are not transferred 
     under section 1185;
       ``(ii) a final order by the court denying the request for a 
     transfer under section 1185;
       ``(iii) 48 hours after the commencement of the case if the 
     court has not ordered a transfer under section 1185; or
       ``(iv) the time the case is dismissed.
       ``(4) Subsections (d), (e), (f), and (g) of section 362 
     apply to a stay under this subsection.
       ``(b) A debt, executory contract (other than a qualified 
     financial contract), or unexpired lease of the debtor, or an 
     agreement under which the debtor has issued or is obligated 
     for any debt, may be assumed by a bridge company in a 
     transfer under section 1185 notwithstanding any provision in 
     an agreement or in applicable nonbankruptcy law that--
       ``(1) prohibits, restricts, or conditions the assignment of 
     the debt, contract, lease, or agreement; or
       ``(2) accelerates, terminates, or modifies, or permits a 
     party other than the debtor to terminate or modify, the debt, 
     contract, lease, or agreement on account of--
       ``(A) the assignment of the debt, contract, lease, or 
     agreement; or
       ``(B) a change in control of any party to the debt, 
     contract, lease, or agreement.
       ``(c)(1) A debt, contract, lease, or agreement of the kind 
     described in subparagraph (A) or (B) of subsection (a)(2) may 
     not be accelerated, terminated, or modified, and any right or 
     obligation under such debt, contract, lease, or agreement may 
     not be accelerated, terminated, or modified, as to the bridge 
     company solely because of a provision in the debt, contract, 
     lease, or agreement or in applicable nonbankruptcy law--
       ``(A) of the kind described in subsection (a)(1)(B) as 
     applied to the debtor;
       ``(B) that prohibits, restricts, or conditions the 
     assignment of the debt, contract, lease, or agreement; or
       ``(C) that accelerates, terminates, or modifies, or permits 
     a party other than the debtor to terminate or modify, the 
     debt, contract, lease or agreement on account of--
       ``(i) the assignment of the debt, contract, lease, or 
     agreement; or
       ``(ii) a change in control of any party to the debt, 
     contract, lease, or agreement.
       ``(2) If there is a default by the debtor under a provision 
     other than the kind described in paragraph (1) in a debt, 
     contract, lease or agreement of the kind described in 
     subparagraph (A) or (B) of subsection (a)(2), the bridge 
     company may assume such debt, contract, lease, or agreement 
     only if the bridge company--
       ``(A) shall cure the default;
       ``(B) compensates, or provides adequate assurance in 
     connection with a transfer under section 1185 that the bridge 
     company will promptly compensate, a party other than the 
     debtor to the debt, contract, lease, or agreement, for any 
     actual pecuniary loss to the party resulting from the 
     default; and
       ``(C) provides adequate assurance in connection with a 
     transfer under section 1185 of future performance under the 
     debt, contract, lease, or agreement, as determined by the 
     court under section 1185(c)(4).

     ``Sec. 1188. Treatment of qualified financial contracts and 
       affiliate contracts

       ``(a) Notwithstanding sections 362(b)(6), 362(b)(7), 
     362(b)(17), 362(b)(27), 362(o), 555, 556, 559, 560, and 561, 
     a petition filed under section 1183 operates as a stay, 
     during the period specified in section 1187(a)(3)(A), 
     applicable to all entities, of the exercise of a contractual 
     right--
       ``(1) to cause the modification, liquidation, termination, 
     or acceleration of a qualified financial contract of the 
     debtor or an affiliate;
       ``(2) to offset or net out any termination value, payment 
     amount, or other transfer obligation arising under or in 
     connection with a qualified financial contract of the debtor 
     or an affiliate; or
       ``(3) under any security agreement or arrangement or other 
     credit enhancement forming a part of or related to a 
     qualified financial contract of the debtor or an affiliate.
       ``(b)(1) During the period specified in section 
     1187(a)(3)(A), the trustee or the affiliate shall perform all 
     payment and delivery obligations under such qualified 
     financial contract of the debtor or the affiliate, as the 
     case may be, that become due after the commencement of the 
     case. The stay provided under subsection (a) terminates as to 
     a qualified financial contract of the debtor or an affiliate 
     immediately upon the failure of the trustee or the affiliate, 
     as the case may be, to perform any such obligation during 
     such period.
       ``(2) Any failure by a counterparty to any qualified 
     financial contract of the debtor or any affiliate to perform 
     any payment or delivery obligation under such qualified 
     financial contract, including during the pendency of the stay 
     provided under subsection (a), shall constitute a breach of 
     such qualified financial contract by the counterparty.
       ``(c) Subject to the court's approval, a qualified 
     financial contract between an entity and the debtor may be 
     assigned to or assumed by the bridge company in a transfer 
     under, and in accordance with, section 1185 if and only if--
       ``(1) all qualified financial contracts between the entity 
     and the debtor are assigned to and assumed by the bridge 
     company in the transfer under section 1185;
       ``(2) all claims of the entity against the debtor in 
     respect of any qualified financial contract between the 
     entity and the debtor (other than any claim that, under the 
     terms of the qualified financial contract, is subordinated to 
     the claims of general unsecured creditors) are assigned to 
     and assumed by the bridge company;
       ``(3) all claims of the debtor against the entity under any 
     qualified financial contract between the entity and the 
     debtor are assigned to and assumed by the bridge company; and
       ``(4) all property securing or any other credit enhancement 
     furnished by the debtor for any qualified financial contract 
     described in paragraph (1) or any claim described in 
     paragraph (2) or (3) under any qualified financial contract 
     between the entity and the debtor is assigned to and assumed 
     by the bridge company.
  

       ``(d) Notwithstanding any provision of a qualified 
     financial contract or of applicable nonbankruptcy law, a 
     qualified financial contract of the debtor that is assumed or 
     assigned in a transfer under section 1185 may

[[Page H6918]]

     not be accelerated, terminated, or modified, after the entry 
     of the order approving a transfer under section 1185, and any 
     right or obligation under the qualified financial contract 
     may not be accelerated, terminated, or modified, after the 
     entry of the order approving a transfer under section 1185 
     solely because of a condition described in section 
     1187(c)(1), other than a condition of the kind specified in 
     section 1187(b) that occurs after property of the estate no 
     longer includes a direct beneficial interest or an indirect 
     beneficial interest through the special trustee, in more than 
     50 percent of the equity securities of the bridge company.
       ``(e) Notwithstanding any provision of any agreement or in 
     applicable nonbankruptcy law, an agreement of an affiliate 
     (including an executory contract, an unexpired lease, 
     qualified financial contract, or an agreement under which the 
     affiliate issued or is obligated for debt) and any right or 
     obligation under such agreement may not be accelerated, 
     terminated, or modified, solely because of a condition 
     described in section 1187(c)(1), other than a condition of 
     the kind specified in section 1187(b) that occurs after the 
     bridge company is no longer a direct or indirect beneficial 
     holder of more than 50 percent of the equity securities of 
     the affiliate, at any time after the commencement of the case 
     if--
       ``(1) all direct or indirect interests in the affiliate 
     that are property of the estate are transferred under section 
     1185 to the bridge company within the period specified in 
     subsection (a);
       ``(2) the bridge company assumes--
       ``(A) any guarantee or other credit enhancement issued by 
     the debtor relating to the agreement of the affiliate; and
       ``(B) any obligations in respect of rights of setoff, 
     netting arrangement, or debt of the debtor that directly 
     arises out of or directly relates to the guarantee or credit 
     enhancement; and
       ``(3) any property of the estate that directly serves as 
     collateral for the guarantee or credit enhancement is 
     transferred to the bridge company.

     ``Sec. 1189. Licenses, permits, and registrations

       ``(a) Notwithstanding any otherwise applicable 
     nonbankruptcy law, if a request is made under section 1185 
     for a transfer of property of the estate, any Federal, State, 
     or local license, permit, or registration that the debtor or 
     an affiliate had immediately before the commencement of the 
     case and that is proposed to be transferred under section 
     1185 may not be accelerated, terminated, or modified at any 
     time after the request solely on account of--
       ``(1) the insolvency or financial condition of the debtor 
     at any time before the closing of the case;
       ``(2) the commencement of a case under this title 
     concerning the debtor;
       ``(3) the appointment of or taking possession by a trustee 
     in a case under this title concerning the debtor or by a 
     custodian before the commencement of the case; or
       ``(4) a transfer under section 1185.
       ``(b) Notwithstanding any otherwise applicable 
     nonbankruptcy law, any Federal, State, or local license, 
     permit, or registration that the debtor had immediately 
     before the commencement of the case that is included in a 
     transfer under section 1185 shall be valid and all rights and 
     obligations thereunder shall vest in the bridge company.

     ``Sec. 1190. Exemption from securities laws

       ``For purposes of section 1145, a security of the bridge 
     company shall be deemed to be a security of a successor to 
     the debtor under a plan if the court approves the disclosure 
     statement for the plan as providing adequate information (as 
     defined in section 1125(a)) about the bridge company and the 
     security.

     ``Sec. 1191. Inapplicability of certain avoiding powers

       ``A transfer made or an obligation incurred by the debtor 
     to an affiliate prior to or after the commencement of the 
     case, including any obligation released by the debtor or the 
     estate to or for the benefit of an affiliate, in 
     contemplation of or in connection with a transfer under 
     section 1185 is not avoidable under section 544, 547, 
     548(a)(1)(B), or 549, or under any similar nonbankruptcy law.

     ``Sec. 1192. Consideration of financial stability

       ``The court may consider the effect that any decision in 
     connection with this subchapter may have on financial 
     stability in the United States.''.

     SEC. 4. AMENDMENTS TO TITLE 28, UNITED STATES CODE.

       (a) Amendment to Chapter 13.--Chapter 13 of title 28, 
     United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
     following:

     ``Sec. 298. Judge for a case under subchapter V of chapter 11 
       of title 11

       ``(a)(1) Notwithstanding section 295, the Chief Justice of 
     the United States shall designate not fewer than 10 
     bankruptcy judges to be available to hear a case under 
     subchapter V of chapter 11 of title 11. Bankruptcy judges may 
     request to be considered by the Chief Justice of the United 
     States for such designation.
       ``(2) Notwithstanding section 155, a case under subchapter 
     V of chapter 11 of title 11 shall be heard under section 157 
     by a bankruptcy judge designated under paragraph (1), who 
     shall be randomly assigned to hear such case by the chief 
     judge of the court of appeals for the circuit embracing the 
     district in which the case is pending. To the greatest extent 
     practicable, the approvals required under section 155 should 
     be obtained.
       ``(3) If the bankruptcy judge assigned to hear a case under 
     paragraph (2) is not assigned to the district in which the 
     case is pending, the bankruptcy judge shall be temporarily 
     assigned to the district.
       ``(b) A case under subchapter V of chapter 11 of title 11, 
     and all proceedings in the case, shall take place in the 
     district in which the case is pending.
       ``(c) In this section, the term `covered financial 
     corporation' has the meaning given that term in section 
     101(9A) of title 11.''.
       (b) Amendment to Section 1334 of Title 28.--Section 1334 of 
     title 28, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end 
     the following:
       ``(f) This section does not grant jurisdiction to the 
     district court after a transfer pursuant to an order under 
     section 1185 of title 11 of any proceeding related to a 
     special trustee appointed, or to a bridge company formed, in 
     connection with a case under subchapter V of chapter 11 of 
     title 11.''.
       (c) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--
       (1) The table of sections of chapter 13 of title 28, United 
     States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:

``298. Judge for a case under subchapter V of chapter 11 of title 
              11.''.
       (2) The table of subchapters of chapter 11 of title 11, 
     United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
     following:

 ``subchapter v--liquidation, reorganization, or recapitalization of a 
                     covered financial corporation

``1181. Inapplicability of other sections.
``1182. Definitions for this subchapter.
``1183. Commencement of a case concerning a covered financial 
              corporation.
``1184. Regulators.
``1185. Special transfer of property of the estate.
``1186. Special trustee.
``1187. Temporary and supplemental automatic stay; assumed debt.
``1188. Treatment of qualified financial contracts and affiliate 
              contracts.
``1189. Licenses, permits, and registrations.
``1190. Exemption from securities laws.
``1191. Inapplicability of certain avoiding powers.
``1192. Consideration of financial stability.''.

                                TITLE XI

                     ADDITIONAL GENERAL PROVISIONS

                           references to act

       Sec. 1101.  Except as expressly provided otherwise, 
     consistent with sections 746 and 819, any reference to ``this 
     Act'' contained in this division shall be treated as 
     referring only to the provisions of this division.

                          reference to report

       Sec. 1102.  Any reference to a ``report accompanying this 
     Act'' contained in this division shall be treated as a 
     reference to House Report 115-234. The effect of such Report 
     shall be limited to this division and shall apply for 
     purposes of determining the allocation of funds provided by, 
     and the implementation of, this division.

                       spending reduction account

       Sec. 1103.  $0.
       This division may be cited as the ``Financial Services and 
     General Government Appropriations Act, 2018''.

  DIVISION E--DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2018

        The following sums are appropriated, out of any money in 
     the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the Department 
     of Homeland Security for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
     2018, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

    DEPARTMENTAL MANAGEMENT, OPERATIONS, INTELLIGENCE, AND OVERSIGHT

            Office of the Secretary and Executive Management

                         operations and support

       For necessary expenses of the Office of the Secretary and 
     for executive management for operations and support, 
     $138,997,000:  Provided, That not to exceed $30,000 shall be 
     for official reception and representation expenses.

                         Management Directorate

                         operations and support

       For necessary expenses of the Management Directorate for 
     operations and support, $696,131,000, of which $227,516,000 
     shall remain available until September 30, 2019:  Provided, 
     That not to exceed $2,000 shall be for official reception and 
     representation expenses.

              procurement, construction, and improvements

       For necessary expenses of the Management Directorate for 
     procurement, construction, and improvements, $27,755,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2019.

                        research and development

       For necessary expenses of the Management Directorate for 
     research and development, $2,545,000, to remain available 
     until September 30, 2019.

          Intelligence, Analysis, and Operations Coordination

                         operations and support

       For necessary expenses of the Office of Intelligence and 
     Analysis and the Office of Operations Coordination for 
     operations and support, $252,405,000, of which $77,915,000 
     shall remain available until September 30, 2019:  Provided, 
     That not to exceed $3,825 shall be for official reception and 
     representation expenses.

                      Office of Inspector General

                         operations and support

       For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
     for operations and support,

[[Page H6919]]

     $154,830,000:  Provided, That not to exceed $300,000 may be 
     used for certain confidential operational expenses, including 
     the payment of informants, to be expended at the direction of 
     the Inspector General.

                       Administrative Provisions

       Sec. 101.  Hereafter, the Secretary of Homeland Security 
     shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
     Senate and the House of Representatives, at the time the 
     President's budget proposal is submitted pursuant to section 
     1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, the Future Years 
     Homeland Security Program, as authorized by section 874 of 
     the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 454).
       Sec. 102.  Hereafter, the Chief Financial Officer of the 
     Department of Homeland Security shall submit to the 
     Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
     Representatives a monthly budget and staffing report that 
     includes total obligations of the Department for that month 
     and for the fiscal year at the appropriation and program, 
     project, and activity levels, by the source year of the 
     appropriation, not later than 30 days after the last day of 
     each month.
       Sec. 103. (a) Notwithstanding section 518 of division F of 
     the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016 (Public Law 114-
     113), the Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit a 
     report not later than October 15, 2018, to the Inspector 
     General of the Department of Homeland Security listing all 
     grants and contracts awarded by any means other than full and 
     open competition during fiscal years 2017 and 2018.
       (b) The Inspector General shall review the report required 
     by subsection (a) to assess departmental compliance with 
     applicable laws and regulations and report the results of 
     that review to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate 
     and the House of Representatives not later than February 15, 
     2019.
       Sec. 104.  The Secretary of Homeland Security shall require 
     that all contracts of the Department of Homeland Security 
     that provide award fees link such fees to successful 
     acquisition outcomes, which shall be specified in terms of 
     cost, schedule, and performance.
       Sec. 105.  The Secretary of Homeland Security, in 
     consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, shall notify 
     the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House 
     of Representatives of any proposed transfers of funds 
     available under section 9703(g)(4)(B) of title 31, United 
     States Code (as added by Public Law 102-393) from the 
     Department of the Treasury Forfeiture Fund to any agency 
     within the Department of Homeland Security:  Provided, That 
     none of the funds identified for such a transfer may be 
     obligated until the Committees on Appropriations of the 
     Senate and the House of Representatives are notified of the 
     proposed transfers.
       Sec. 106. (a) All official costs associated with the use of 
     Government aircraft by Department of Homeland Security 
     personnel to support official travel of the Secretary and the 
     Deputy Secretary shall be paid from amounts made available 
     for the Office of the Secretary.
       (b) A travel report of all direct and indirect costs of 
     official and nonofficial travel by the Secretary and Deputy 
     Secretary by appropriation to the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives 
     not later than 30 days after the end of fiscal year 2018.
       Sec. 107. (a) Not later than 30 days after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security 
     shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
     Senate and the House of Representatives, the Committees on 
     the Judiciary of the Senate and the House of Representatives, 
     the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs 
     of the Senate, and the Committee on Homeland Security of the 
     House of Representatives, a report for fiscal year 2017 on 
     visa overstay data by country as required by section 1376 of 
     title 8, United States Code: Provided, That the report on 
     visa overstay data shall also include--
       (1) overstays from all nonimmigrant visa categories under 
     the immigration laws, delineated by each of the classes and 
     sub-classes of such categories; and
       (2) numbers as well as rates of overstays for each class 
     and sub-class of such nonimmigrant categories on a per-
     country basis.
       (b) The Secretary of Homeland Security shall publish on the 
     Department's website the metrics developed to measure the 
     effectiveness of security between the ports of entry, 
     including the methodology and data supporting the resulting 
     measures.

                                TITLE II

               SECURITY, ENFORCEMENT, AND INVESTIGATIONS

                   U.S. Customs and Border Protection

                         operations and support

       For necessary expenses of U.S. Customs and Border 
     Protection for operations and support, including the 
     transportation of unaccompanied minor aliens; the provision 
     of air and marine support to Federal, State, and local 
     agencies in the enforcement or administration of laws 
     enforced by the Department of Homeland Security; at the 
     discretion of the Secretary of Homeland Security, the 
     provision of such support to Federal, State, and local 
     agencies in other law enforcement and emergency humanitarian 
     efforts; the purchase and lease of up to 7,500 (6,500 for 
     replacement only) police-type vehicles; the purchase, 
     maintenance, or operation of marine vessels, aircraft, and 
     unmanned aerial systems; and contracting with individuals for 
     personal services abroad; $11,553,315,000; of which 
     $3,274,000 shall be derived from the Harbor Maintenance Trust 
     Fund for administrative expenses related to the collection of 
     the Harbor Maintenance Fee pursuant to section 9505(c)(3) of 
     the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 9505(c)(3)) and 
     notwithstanding section 1511(e)(1) of the Homeland Security 
     Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 551(e)(1)); of which $681,441,500 shall 
     be available until September 30, 2019; and of which such sums 
     as become available in the Customs User Fee Account, except 
     sums subject to section 13031(f)(3) of the Consolidated 
     Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 (19 U.S.C. 
     58c(f)(3)), shall be derived from that account:  Provided, 
     That not to exceed $34,425 shall be for official reception 
     and representation expenses:  Provided further, That not to 
     exceed $15,000,000 may be transferred to the Bureau of Indian 
     Affairs for the maintenance and repair of roads on Native 
     American reservations, as required by the Border Patrol:  
     Provided further, That not to exceed $150,000 shall be 
     available for payment for rental space in connection with 
     preclearance operations:  Provided further, That not to 
     exceed $1,000,000 shall be for awards of compensation to 
     informants, to be accounted for solely under the certificate 
     of the Secretary of Homeland Security.

              procurement, construction, and improvements

       For U.S. Customs and Border Protection for procurement, 
     construction and improvements, in addition to amounts 
     otherwise made available under this heading by the Department 
     of Homeland Security Border Infrastructure Construction 
     Appropriations Act, 2018, $437,480,000, of which $377,705,000 
     shall remain available until September 30, 2020, and of which 
     $59,775,000 shall remain available until September 30,2022: 
     Provided, That such aggregate amount shall be available as 
     follows: $8,955,000 for Cross Border Tunnel Threat, 
     $17,438,000 for Integrated Fixed Towers, $1,600,000 for 
     Mobile Video Surveillance Systems, $20,000,000 for Unattended 
     Ground Sensors, $49,738,000 for border road construction, 
     $33,193,000 for Remote Video Surveillance Systems, 
     $109,240,000 for non-intrusive inspection systems, 
     $55,530,000 for two multi-role enforcement aircraft, 
     $3,300,000 for FAA Next Generation radar systems, $7,800,000 
     for various sensor upgrades, $14,034,000 for one medium-lift 
     helicopter, $13,250,000 for Air and Marine tactical 
     communications, $12,421,000 for two light enforcement 
     helicopters, $3,573,000 for coastal interceptors, $1,200,000 
     for Department of Defense reuse, $45,000,000 for the Brown 
     Field Border Patrol Station, $14,775,000 for Office of Field 
     Operations Facilities, and $26,433,000 for revenue 
     modernization.

                U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement

                         operations and support

       For necessary expenses of U.S. Immigration and Customs 
     Enforcement for operations and support, including the 
     purchase and lease of up to 3,790 (2,350 for replacement 
     only) police-type vehicles; overseas vetted units; and 
     maintenance, minor construction, and minor leasehold 
     improvements at owned and leased facilities; $7,002,043,000; 
     of which $6,000,000 shall remain available until expended for 
     efforts to enforce laws against forced child labor; of which 
     $33,700,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2019; 
     of which not less than $4,413,244,000 shall be for 
     enforcement, detention, and removal operations, including 
     transportation of unaccompanied minor aliens:  Provided, That 
     not to exceed $11,475 shall be for official reception and 
     representation expenses:  Provided further, That not to 
     exceed $10,000,000 shall be available until expended for 
     conducting special operations under section 3131 of the 
     Customs Enforcement Act of 1986 (19 U.S.C. 2081):  Provided 
     further, That not to exceed $2,000,000 shall be for awards of 
     compensation to informants, to be accounted for solely under 
     the certificate of the Secretary of Homeland Security:  
     Provided further, That not to exceed $11,216,000 shall be 
     available to fund or reimburse other Federal agencies for the 
     costs associated with the care, maintenance, and repatriation 
     of smuggled aliens unlawfully present in the United States.

              procurement, construction, and improvements

       For necessary expenses of U.S. Immigration and Customs 
     Enforcement for procurement, construction, and improvements, 
     $52,899,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020.

                 Transportation Security Administration

                         operations and support

       For necessary expenses of the Transportation Security 
     Administration for operations and support, $7,082,874,000, of 
     which $1,770,719,000 shall remain available until September 
     30, 2019:  Provided, That not to exceed $7,650 shall be for 
     official reception and representation expenses:  Provided 
     further, That security service fees authorized under section 
     44940 of title 49, United States Code, shall be credited to 
     this appropriation as offsetting collections and shall be 
     available only for aviation security:  Provided further, That 
     the sum appropriated under this heading from the general fund 
     shall be reduced on a dollar-for-dollar basis as such 
     offsetting collections are received during fiscal year 2018 
     so as to result in a final fiscal year appropriation from the 
     general fund estimated at not more than $4,612,874,000.

[[Page H6920]]

  


              procurement, construction, and improvements

       For necessary expenses of the Transportation Security 
     Administration for procurement, construction, and 
     improvements, $53,314,000, to remain available until 
     September 30, 2020.

                        research and development

       For necessary expenses of the Transportation Security 
     Administration for research and development, $20,190,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2019.

                              Coast Guard

                           operating expenses

       For necessary expenses for the operations and maintenance 
     of the Coast Guard, not otherwise provided for; purchase or 
     lease of not to exceed 25 passenger motor vehicles, which 
     shall be for replacement only; purchase or lease of small 
     boats for contingent and emergent requirements (at a unit 
     cost of not more than $700,000) and repairs and service-life 
     replacements, not to exceed a total of $31,000,000; purchase, 
     lease, or improvement of other equipment (at a unit cost of 
     not more than $250,000); minor shore construction projects 
     not exceeding $1,000,000 in total cost on any location; 
     payments pursuant to section 156 of Public Law 97-377 (42 
     U.S.C. 402 note; 96 Stat. 1920); and recreation and welfare; 
     $7,163,464,000; of which $340,000,000 shall be for defense-
     related activities; of which $24,500,000 shall be derived 
     from the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund to carry out the 
     purposes of section 1012(a)(5) of the Oil Pollution Act of 
     1990 (33 U.S.C. 2712(a)(5)):  Provided, That not to exceed 
     $23,000 shall be for official reception and representation 
     expenses.

                environmental compliance and restoration

       For necessary expenses to carry out the environmental 
     compliance and restoration functions of the Coast Guard under 
     chapter 19 of title 14, United States Code, $13,397,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2022.

                            reserve training

       For necessary expenses of the Coast Guard Reserve; 
     operations and maintenance of the Coast Guard Reserve 
     Program; personnel and training costs; and equipment and 
     services; $114,875,000.

              acquisition, construction, and improvements

       For necessary expenses of the Coast Guard for acquisition, 
     construction, renovation, and improvement of aids to 
     navigation, shore facilities (including facilities at 
     Department of Defense installations used by the Coast Guard), 
     vessels, and aircraft, including equipment related thereto, 
     $1,298,745,000; of which $20,000,000 shall be derived from 
     the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund to carry out the purposes 
     of section 1012(a)(5) of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (33 
     U.S.C. 2712(a)(5)); and of which $1,256,655,000 shall be 
     available until September 30, 2022.

              research, development, test, and evaluation

       For necessary expenses of the Coast Guard for research, 
     development, test, and evaluation; and for maintenance, 
     rehabilitation, lease, and operation of facilities and 
     equipment; $18,641,000; to remain available until September 
     30, 2020, of which $500,000 shall be derived from the Oil 
     Spill Liability Trust Fund to carry out the purposes of 
     section 1012(a)(5) of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (33 
     U.S.C. 2712(a)(5)):  Provided, That there may be credited to 
     and used for the purposes of this appropriation funds 
     received from State and local governments, other public 
     authorities, private sources, and foreign countries for 
     expenses incurred for research, development, testing, and 
     evaluation.

                              retired pay

       For retired pay, including the payment of obligations 
     otherwise chargeable to lapsed appropriations for this 
     purpose, payments under the Retired Serviceman's Family 
     Protection and Survivor Benefits Plans, payment for career 
     status bonuses, concurrent receipts, and combat-related 
     special compensation, and payments for medical care of 
     retired personnel and their dependents under chapter 55 of 
     title 10, United States Code, $1,673,000,000, to remain 
     available until expended.

                      United States Secret Service

                         operations and support

       For necessary expenses of the United States Secret Service 
     for operations and support, including purchase of not to 
     exceed 652 vehicles for police-type use for replacement only; 
     hire of passenger motor vehicles; purchase of motorcycles 
     made in the United States; hire of aircraft; rental of 
     buildings in the District of Columbia; fencing, lighting, 
     guard booths, and other facilities on private or other 
     property not in Government ownership or control, as may be 
     necessary to perform protective functions; conduct of and 
     participation in firearms matches; presentation of awards; 
     conduct of behavioral research in support of protective 
     intelligence and operations; payment in advance for 
     commercial accommodations as may be necessary to perform 
     protective functions; and payment, without regard to section 
     5702 of title 5, United States Code, of subsistence expenses 
     of employees who are on protective missions, whether at or 
     away from their duty stations; $1,893,215,000; of which 
     $33,692,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2019, 
     of which $6,000,000 shall be for a grant for activities 
     related to investigations of missing and exploited children; 
     and of which not less than $13,869,000 shall be for 
     activities related to training in electronic crimes 
     investigations and forensics:  Provided, That not to exceed 
     $19,125 shall be for official reception and representation 
     expenses:  Provided further, That not to exceed $100,000 
     shall be to provide technical assistance and equipment to 
     foreign law enforcement organizations in counterfeit 
     investigations.

              procurement, construction, and improvements

       For necessary expenses of the United States Secret Service 
     for procurement, construction, and improvements, $64,030,000, 
     to remain available until September 30, 2020.

                        research and development

       For necessary expenses of the United States Secret Service 
     for research and development, $250,000, to remain available 
     until September 30, 2019.

                       Administrative Provisions

       Sec. 201.  Section 201 of the Department of Homeland 
     Security Appropriations Act, 2017 (division F of Public Law 
     115-31), related to overtime compensation limitations, shall 
     apply with respect to funds made available in this Act in the 
     same manner as such section applied to funds made available 
     in that Act.
       Sec. 202.  Funding made available under the heading ``U.S. 
     Customs and Border Protection--Operations and Support'' and 
     ``U.S. Customs and Border Protection--Procurement, 
     Construction, and Improvements'' shall be available for 
     customs expenses when necessary to maintain operations and 
     prevent adverse personnel actions in Puerto Rico in addition 
     to funding provided by 48 U.S.C. 740.
       Sec. 203.  Hereafter, no U.S. Customs and Border Protection 
     aircraft or other related equipment, with the exception of 
     aircraft that are one of a kind and have been identified as 
     excess to U.S. Customs and Border Protection requirements and 
     aircraft that have been damaged beyond repair, shall be 
     transferred to any other Federal agency, department, or 
     office outside of the Department of Homeland Security without 
     prior notice to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
     Senate and the House of Representatives.
       Sec. 204.  As authorized by section 601(b) of the United 
     States-Colombia Trade Promotion Agreement Implementation Act 
     (Public Law 112-42), fees collected from passengers arriving 
     from Canada, Mexico, or an adjacent island pursuant to 
     section 13031(a)(5) of the Consolidated Omnibus Budget 
     Reconciliation Act of 1985 (19 U.S.C. 58c(a)(5)) shall be 
     available until expended.
       Sec. 205.  For an additional amount for ``U.S. Customs and 
     Border Protection--Operations and Support'', $39,000,000, to 
     remain available until expended, to be reduced by amounts 
     collected and credited to this appropriation in fiscal year 
     2018 from amounts authorized to be collected by section 
     286(i) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
     1356(i)), section 10412 of the Farm Security and Rural 
     Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8311), and section 817 of 
     the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015 
     (Public Law 114-125):  Provided, That to the extent that 
     amounts realized from such collections exceed $39,000,000, 
     those amounts in excess of $39,000,000 shall be credited to 
     this appropriation, to remain available until expended.
       Sec. 206.  None of the funds made available in this Act for 
     U.S. Customs and Border Protection may be used to prevent an 
     individual not in the business of importing a prescription 
     drug (within the meaning of section 801(g) of the Federal 
     Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act) from importing a prescription 
     drug from Canada that complies with the Federal Food, Drug, 
     and Cosmetic Act:  Provided, That this section shall apply 
     only to individuals transporting on their person a personal-
     use quantity of the prescription drug, not to exceed a 90-day 
     supply:  Provided further, That the prescription drug may not 
     be--
       (1) a controlled substance, as defined in section 102 of 
     the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802); or
       (2) a biological product, as defined in section 351 of the 
     Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 262).
       Sec. 207.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none 
     of the funds provided in this or any other Act shall be used 
     to approve a waiver of the navigation and vessel-inspection 
     laws pursuant to section 501(b) of title 46, United States 
     Code, for the transportation of crude oil distributed from 
     and to the Strategic Petroleum Reserve until the Secretary of 
     Homeland Security, after consultation with the Secretaries of 
     the Departments of Energy and Transportation and 
     representatives from the United States flag maritime 
     industry, takes adequate measures to ensure the use of United 
     States flag vessels for such transportation:  Provided, That 
     the Secretary shall notify the Committees on Appropriations 
     of the Senate and the House of Representatives, the Committee 
     on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, and 
     the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the 
     House of Representatives within 2 business days of any 
     request for waivers of navigation and vessel-inspection laws 
     pursuant to such section with respect to such transportation, 
     and the disposition of such requests.
       Sec. 208. (a) None of the funds made available by this Act 
     may be used to approve, license, facilitate, authorize, or 
     otherwise allow the trafficking or import of property 
     confiscated by the Cuban Government.

[[Page H6921]]

       (b) In this section, the terms ``confiscated'', ``Cuban 
     Government'', ``property'', and ``traffic'' have the meanings 
     given such terms in paragraphs (4), (5), (12)(A), and (13), 
     respectively, of section 4 of the Cuban Liberty and 
     Democratic Solidarity (LIBERTAD) Act of 1996 (2216 U.S.C. 
     6023).
       Sec. 209.  Without regard to the limitation as to time and 
     condition of section 503(d), the Secretary may reprogram 
     within and transfer funds to ``U.S. Immigration and Customs 
     Enforcement--Operations and Support'' as necessary to ensure 
     the detention of aliens prioritized for removal.
       Sec. 210.  None of the funds provided under the heading 
     ``U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement--Operations and 
     Support'' may be used to continue a delegation of law 
     enforcement authority authorized under section 287(g) of the 
     Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1357(g)) if the 
     Department of Homeland Security Inspector General determines 
     that the terms of the agreement governing the delegation of 
     authority have been materially violated.
       Sec. 211.  None of the funds provided under the heading 
     ``U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement--Operations and 
     Support'' may be used to continue any contract for the 
     provision of detention services if the two most recent 
     overall performance evaluations received by the contracted 
     facility are less than ``adequate'' or the equivalent median 
     score in any subsequent performance evaluation system.
       Sec. 212.  Members of the House of Representatives and the 
     Senate, including the leadership; the heads of Federal 
     agencies and commissions, including the Secretary, Deputy 
     Secretary, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries of 
     the Department of Homeland Security; the Attorney General, 
     Deputy Attorney General, Assistant Attorneys General, and 
     United States Attorneys; and senior members of the Executive 
     Office of the President, including the Director of the Office 
     of Management and Budget, shall not be exempt from Federal 
     passenger and baggage screening.
       Sec. 213.  Notwithstanding section 44923 of title 49, 
     United States Code, for fiscal year 2018, any funds in the 
     Aviation Security Capital Fund established by section 
     44923(h) of title 49, United States Code, may be used for the 
     procurement and installation of explosives detection systems 
     or for the issuance of other transaction agreements for the 
     purpose of funding projects described in section 44923(a) of 
     such title.
       Sec. 214.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     under the heading ``Coast Guard--Operating Expenses'' shall 
     be for expenses incurred for recreational vessels under 
     section 12114 of title 46, United States Code, except to the 
     extent fees are collected from owners of yachts and credited 
     to the appropriation made available by this Act under the 
     heading ``Coast Guard--Operating Expenses'':  Provided, That 
     to the extent such fees are insufficient to pay expenses of 
     recreational vessel documentation under such section 12114, 
     and there is a backlog of recreational vessel applications, 
     personnel performing non-recreational vessel documentation 
     functions under subchapter II of chapter 121 of title 46, 
     United States Code, may perform documentation under section 
     12114.
       Sec. 215.  Without regard to the limitation as to time and 
     condition of section 503(d), after June 30, up to $10,000,000 
     may be reprogrammed to or from the Military Pay and 
     Allowances funding category within ``Coast Guard--Operating 
     Expenses'' in accordance with subsection (a) of section 503.
       Sec. 216.  The United States Secret Service is authorized 
     to obligate funds in anticipation of reimbursements from 
     Federal agencies and entities, as defined in section 105 of 
     title 5, United States Code, for personnel receiving training 
     sponsored by the James J. Rowley Training Center, except that 
     total obligations at the end of the fiscal year shall not 
     exceed total budgetary resources available under the heading 
     ``United States Secret Service--Operations and Support'' at 
     the end of the fiscal year.
       Sec. 217.  None of the funds made available to the United 
     States Secret Service by this Act or by previous 
     appropriations Acts may be made available for the protection 
     of the head of a Federal agency other than the Secretary of 
     Homeland Security:  Provided, That the Director of the Secret 
     Service may enter into agreements to provide such protection 
     on a fully reimbursable basis.
       Sec. 218.  For purposes of section 503(a)(3) of this Act, 
     up to $15,000,000 may be reprogrammed within ``United States 
     Secret Service--Operations and Support''.
       Sec. 219.  Funding made available in this Act for ``United 
     States Secret Service--Operations and Support'' is available 
     for travel of United States Secret Service employees on 
     protective missions without regard to the limitations on such 
     expenditures in this or any other Act if the Director of the 
     United States Secret Service or a designee notifies the 
     Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
     Representatives 10 or more days in advance, or as early as 
     practicable, prior to such expenditures.

                               TITLE III

            PROTECTION, PREPAREDNESS, RESPONSE, AND RECOVERY

              National Protection and Programs Directorate

                         operations and support

       For necessary expenses of the National Protection and 
     Programs Directorate for operations and support, 
     $1,427,062,000, of which $8,912,000 shall remain available 
     until September 30, 2019:  Provided, That not to exceed 
     $3,825 shall be for official reception and representation 
     expenses.

                       federal protective service

       The revenues and collections of security fees credited to 
     this account shall be available until expended for necessary 
     expenses related to the protection of federally owned and 
     leased buildings and for the operations of the Federal 
     Protective Service.

              procurement, construction, and improvements

       For necessary expenses of the National Protection and 
     Programs Directorate for procurement, construction, and 
     improvements, $335,033,000, to remain available until 
     September 30, 2019.

                        research and development

       For necessary expenses of the National Protection and 
     Programs Directorate for research and development, 
     $11,126,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019.

                        Office of Health Affairs

                         operations and support

       For necessary expenses of the Office of Health Affairs for 
     operations and support, $119,319,000, of which $13,520,000 
     shall remain available until September 30, 2019.

                  Federal Emergency Management Agency

                         operations and support

       For necessary expenses of the Federal Emergency Management 
     Agency for operations and support, $1,027,135,000:  Provided, 
     That not to exceed $2,250 shall be for official reception and 
     representation expenses.

              procurement, construction, and improvements

       For necessary expenses of the Federal Emergency Management 
     Agency for procurement, construction, and improvements, 
     $76,578,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019.

                           federal assistance

       For activities of the Federal Emergency Management Agency 
     for Federal assistance through grants, contracts, cooperative 
     agreements, and other activities, $3,003,798,000, which shall 
     be allocated as follows:
       (1) $467,000,000 for the State Homeland Security Grant 
     Program under section 2004 of the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 (6 U.S.C. 605), of which $55,000,000 shall be for 
     Operation Stonegarden:  Provided, That notwithstanding 
     subsection (c)(4) of such section 2004, for fiscal year 2018, 
     the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico shall make available to local 
     and tribal governments amounts provided to the Commonwealth 
     of Puerto Rico under this paragraph in accordance with 
     subsection (c)(1) of such section 2004.
       (2) $630,000,000 for the Urban Area Security Initiative 
     under section 2003 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 
     U.S.C. 604), of which $50,000,000 shall be for organizations 
     (as described under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue 
     Code of 1986 and exempt from tax under section 501(a) of such 
     code) determined by the Secretary of Homeland Security to be 
     at high risk of a terrorist attack.
       (3) $100,000,000 for Public Transportation Security 
     Assistance and Railroad Security Assistance under sections 
     1406 and 1513 of the Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 
     Commission Act of 2007 (6 U.S.C. 1135 and 1163), of which 
     $10,000,000 shall be for Amtrak security.
       (4) $100,000,000 for Port Security Grants in accordance 
     with section 70107 of title 46, United States Code.
       (5) $690,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2018, of which $345,000,000 shall be for Assistance to 
     Firefighter Grants and $345,000,000 shall be for Staffing for 
     Adequate Fire and Emergency Response Grants under sections 33 
     and 34 respectively of the Federal Fire Prevention and 
     Control Act of 1974 (15 U.S.C. 2229 and 2229a).
       (6) $350,000,000 for emergency management performance 
     grants under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 
     U.S.C. 4001), the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
     Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121), the Earthquake 
     Hazards Reduction Act of 1977 (42 U.S.C. 7701), 6 U.S.C. 762, 
     and Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).
       (7) $100,000,000 for the National Predisaster Mitigation 
     Fund under section 203 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster 
     Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5133), to 
     remain available until expended.
       (8) $177,531,000 for necessary expenses for Flood Hazard 
     Mapping and Risk Analysis, in addition to and to supplement 
     any other sums appropriated under the National Flood 
     Insurance Fund, and such additional sums as may be provided 
     by States or other political subdivisions for cost-shared 
     mapping activities under section 1360(f)(2) of the National 
     Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4101(f)(2)), to remain 
     available until expended.
       (9) $120,000,000 for the emergency food and shelter program 
     under title III of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act 
     (42 U.S.C. 11331), to remain available until expended:  
     Provided, That not to exceed 3.5 percent shall be for total 
     administrative costs.
       (10) $269,267,000 to sustain current operations for 
     training, exercises, technical assistance, and other 
     programs.

                          disaster relief fund

       For necessary expenses in carrying out the Robert T. 
     Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 
     U.S.C. 5121 et seq.), $7,327,720,000, to remain available 
     until expended, of which $6,793,000,000 shall be for

[[Page H6922]]

     major disasters declared pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford 
     Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 
     et seq.) and is designated by the Congress as being for 
     disaster relief pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     national flood insurance fund

       For activities under the National Flood Insurance Act of 
     1968 (42 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.), the Flood Disaster Protection 
     Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.), the Biggert-Waters 
     Flood Insurance Reform Act of 2012 (Public Law 112-141, 126 
     Stat. 916), and the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability 
     Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-89; 128 Stat. 1020), 
     $203,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019, 
     which shall be derived from offsetting amounts collected 
     under section 1308(d) of the National Flood Insurance Act of 
     1968 (42 U.S.C. 4015(d)); of which $13,573,000 shall be 
     available for mission support associated with flood 
     management; and of which $189,927,000 shall be available for 
     flood plain management and flood mapping:  Provided, That any 
     additional fees collected pursuant to section 1308(d) of the 
     National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4015(d)) 
     shall be credited as offsetting collections to this account, 
     to be available for flood plain management and flood mapping: 
      Provided further, That in fiscal year 2017, no funds shall 
     be available from the National Flood Insurance Fund under 
     section 1310 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 
     U.S.C. 4017) in excess of--
       (1) $165,224,000 for operating expenses and salaries and 
     expenses associated with flood insurance operations;
       (2) $1,123,000,000 for commissions and taxes of agents;
       (3) such sums as are necessary for interest on Treasury 
     borrowings; and
       (4) $175,000,000, which shall remain available until 
     expended, for flood mitigation actions and for flood 
     mitigation assistance under section 1366 of the National 
     Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4104c), 
     notwithstanding sections 1366(e) and 1310(a)(7) of such Act 
     (42 U.S.C. 4104c(e), 4017):
       Provided further, That the amounts collected under section 
     102 of the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 
     4012a) and section 1366(e) of the National Flood Insurance 
     Act of 1968 shall be deposited in the National Flood 
     Insurance Fund to supplement other amounts specified as 
     available for section 1366 of the National Flood Insurance 
     Act of 1968, notwithstanding section 102(f)(8), section 
     1366(e), and paragraphs (1) through (3) of section 1367(b) of 
     such Act (42 U.S.C. 4012a(f)(8), 4104c(e), 4104d(b)(1)-(3)):  
     Provided further, That total administrative costs shall not 
     exceed 4 percent of the total appropriation:  Provided 
     further, That up to $5,000,000 is available to carry out 
     section 24 of the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act 
     of 2014 (42 U.S.C. 4033).

                       Administrative Provisions

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 301.  Notwithstanding section 2008(a)(12) of the 
     Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 609(a)(12)) or any 
     other provision of law, not more than 5 percent of the amount 
     of a grant made available in paragraphs (1) through (4) under 
     ``Federal Emergency Management Agency--Federal Assistance'', 
     may be used by the grantee for expenses directly related to 
     administration of the grant.
       Sec. 302.  Applications for grants under the heading 
     ``Federal Emergency Management Agency--Federal Assistance'', 
     for paragraphs (1) through (4), shall be made available to 
     eligible applicants not later than 60 days after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, eligible applicants shall submit 
     applications not later than 80 days after the grant 
     announcement, and the Administrator of the Federal Emergency 
     Management Agency shall act within 65 days after the receipt 
     of an application.
       Sec. 303.  Under the heading ``Federal Emergency Management 
     Agency--Federal Assistance'', for grants under paragraphs (1) 
     through (4), the Administrator of the Federal Emergency 
     Management Agency shall brief the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives 
     5 full business days in advance of announcing publicly the 
     intention of making an award.
       Sec. 304.  Under the heading ``Federal Emergency Management 
     Agency--Federal Assistance'', for grants under paragraphs (1) 
     and (2), the installation of communications towers is not 
     considered construction of a building or other physical 
     facility.
       Sec. 305.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     grants awarded to States along the Southwest Border of the 
     United States under sections 2003 or 2004 of the Homeland 
     Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 604 and 605) using funds 
     provided under the heading ``Federal Emergency Management 
     Agency--Federal Assistance'' for grants under paragraph (1) 
     in this Act, or under the heading ``Federal Emergency 
     Management Agency--State and Local Programs'' in Public Law 
     114-4, division F of Public Law 113-76, or division D of 
     Public Law 113-6 may be used by recipients or sub-recipients 
     for costs, or reimbursement of costs, related to providing 
     humanitarian relief to unaccompanied alien children and alien 
     adults accompanied by an alien minor where they are 
     encountered after entering the United States, provided that 
     such costs were incurred between January 1, 2014, and 
     December 31, 2014, or during the award period of performance.
       Sec. 306.  The aggregate charges assessed during fiscal 
     year 2018, as authorized in title III of the Departments of 
     Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and 
     Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999 (42 U.S.C. 
     5196e), shall not be less than 100 percent of the amounts 
     anticipated by the Department of Homeland Security to be 
     necessary for its Radiological Emergency Preparedness Program 
     for the next fiscal year:  Provided, That the methodology for 
     assessment and collection of fees shall be fair and equitable 
     and shall reflect costs of providing such services, including 
     administrative costs of collecting such fees:  Provided 
     further, That such fees shall be deposited in a Radiological 
     Emergency Preparedness Program account as offsetting 
     collections and will become available for authorized purposes 
     on October 1, 2018, and remain available until expended.

                                TITLE IV

             RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TRAINING, AND SERVICES

               U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services

                         operations and support

       For necessary expenses of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
     Services for operations and support of the E-Verify Program, 
     $108,856,000.

              procurement, construction, and improvements

       For necessary expenses of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
     Services for procurement, construction, and improvements of 
     the E-Verify Program, $22,657,000, to remain available until 
     September 30, 2021.

                Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers

                         operations and support

       For necessary expenses of the Federal Law Enforcement 
     Training Centers for operations and support, including the 
     purchase of not to exceed 117 vehicles for police-type use 
     and hire of passenger motor vehicles, and services as 
     authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, 
     $260,099,000, of which $49,409,000 shall remain available 
     until September 30, 2019:  Provided, That not to exceed 
     $7,180 shall be for official reception and representation 
     expenses.

                   Science and Technology Directorate

                         operations and support

       For necessary expenses of the Science and Technology 
     Directorate for operations and support, including the 
     purchase or lease of not to exceed 5 vehicles, $254,618,000, 
     of which $134,795,000 shall remain available until September 
     30, 2019:  Provided, That not to exceed $7,650 shall be for 
     official reception and representation expenses.

                        research and development

       For necessary expenses of the Science and Technology 
     Directorate for research and development, $383,482,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2020.

                   Domestic Nuclear Detection Office

                         operations and support

       For necessary expenses of the Domestic Nuclear Detection 
     Office for operations and support, $54,664,000:  Provided, 
     That not to exceed $2,250 shall be for official reception and 
     representation expenses.

              procurement, construction, and improvements

       For necessary expenses of the Domestic Nuclear Detection 
     Office for procurement, construction, and improvements, 
     $87,096,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020.

                        research and development

       For necessary expenses of the Domestic Nuclear Detection 
     Office for research and development, $144,161,000, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2020.

                           federal assistance

       For necessary expenses of the Domestic Nuclear Detection 
     Office for Federal assistance through grants, contracts, 
     cooperative agreements, and other activities, $44,519,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2020.

                       Administrative Provisions

       Sec. 401.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     funds otherwise made available to U.S. Citizenship and 
     Immigration Services may be used to acquire, operate, equip, 
     and dispose of up to 5 vehicles, for replacement only, for 
     areas where the Administrator of General Services does not 
     provide vehicles for lease:  Provided, That the Director of 
     U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services may authorize 
     employees who are assigned to those areas to use such 
     vehicles to travel between the employees' residences and 
     places of employment.
       Sec. 402.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services to grant 
     an immigration benefit unless the results of background 
     checks required by law to be completed prior to the granting 
     of the benefit have been received by U.S. Citizenship and 
     Immigration Services, and the results do not preclude the 
     granting of the benefit.
       Sec. 403.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may 
     be used to process or approve a competition under Office of 
     Management and Budget Circular A-76 for services provided by 
     employees (including employees serving on a temporary or term 
     basis) of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services of the 
     Department of Homeland Security who are known as Immigration 
     Information Officers, Immigration Service Analysts, Contact 
     Representatives, Investigative Assistants, or Immigration 
     Services Officers.
       Sec. 404. (a) Notwithstanding section 1356(n) of title 8, 
     United States Code, of the

[[Page H6923]]

     funds deposited into the Immigration Examinations Fee 
     Account, up to $10,000,000 may be allocated by U.S. 
     Citizenship and Immigration Services in fiscal year 2018 for 
     the purpose of providing an immigrant integration grants 
     program.
       (b) None of the funds made available to U.S. Citizenship 
     and Immigration Services for grants for immigrant integration 
     under subsection (a) may be used to provide services to 
     aliens who have not been lawfully admitted for permanent 
     residence.
       Sec. 405.  The Director of the Federal Law Enforcement 
     Training Centers is authorized to distribute funds to Federal 
     law enforcement agencies for expenses incurred participating 
     in training accreditation.
       Sec. 406.  The Federal Law Enforcement Training 
     Accreditation Board, including representatives from the 
     Federal law enforcement community and non-Federal 
     accreditation experts involved in law enforcement training, 
     shall lead the Federal law enforcement training accreditation 
     process to continue the implementation of measuring and 
     assessing the quality and effectiveness of Federal law 
     enforcement training programs, facilities, and instructors.
       Sec. 407. (a) There is to be established a ``Federal Law 
     Enforcement Training Centers--Procurement, Construction, and 
     Improvements'' appropriations account for planning, 
     operational development, engineering, and purchases prior to 
     sustainment and for information technology-related 
     procurement, construction, and improvements, including non-
     tangible assets of the Federal Law Enforcement Training 
     Centers.
       (b) The Director of the Federal Law Enforcement Training 
     Centers may accept transfers to the account established by 
     subsection (a) from Government agencies requesting the 
     construction of special use facilities, as authorized by the 
     Economy Act (31 U.S.C. 1535(b)):  Provided, That the Federal 
     Law Enforcement Training Centers maintain administrative 
     control and ownership upon completion of such facilities.
       Sec. 408.  The functions of the Federal Law Enforcement 
     Training Centers instructor staff shall be classified as 
     inherently governmental for the purpose of the Federal 
     Activities Inventory Reform Act of 1998 (31 U.S.C. 501 note).

                                TITLE V

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

             (including transfers and rescissions of funds)

       Sec. 501.  No part of any appropriation contained in this 
     Act shall remain available for obligation beyond the current 
     fiscal year unless expressly so provided herein.
       Sec. 502.  Subject to the requirements of section 503 of 
     this Act, the unexpended balances of prior appropriations 
     provided for activities in this Act may be transferred to 
     appropriation accounts for such activities established 
     pursuant to this Act, may be merged with funds in the 
     applicable established accounts, and thereafter may be 
     accounted for as one fund for the same time period as 
     originally enacted.
       Sec. 503. (a) None of the funds provided by this Act, 
     provided by previous appropriations Acts to the components in 
     or transferred to the Department of Homeland Security that 
     remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 
     2018, or provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the 
     United States derived by the collection of fees available to 
     the components funded by this Act, shall be available for 
     obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming of funds 
     that--
       (1) creates or eliminates a program, project, or activity, 
     or increases funds for any program, project, or activity for 
     which funds have been denied or restricted by the Congress;
       (2) contracts out any function or activity presently 
     performed by Federal employees or any new function or 
     activity proposed to be performed by Federal employees in the 
     President's budget proposal for fiscal year 2018 for the 
     Department of Homeland Security;
       (3) augments funding for existing programs, projects, or 
     activities in excess of $5,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever 
     is less;
       (4) reduces funding for any program, project, or activity, 
     or numbers of personnel, by 10 percent or more;
       (5) reorganizes components; or
       (6) results from any general savings from a reduction in 
     personnel that would result in a change in funding levels for 
     programs, projects, or activities as approved by the 
     Congress.
       (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply if the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives 
     are notified at least 15 days in advance of such 
     reprogramming.
       (c) Up to 5 percent of any appropriation made available for 
     the current fiscal year for the Department of Homeland 
     Security by this Act or provided by previous appropriations 
     Acts may be transferred between such appropriations if the 
     Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
     Representatives are notified at least 30 days in advance of 
     such transfer, but no such appropriation, except as otherwise 
     specifically provided, shall be increased by more than 10 
     percent by such transfer.
       (d) Notwithstanding subsections (a), (b), and (c), no funds 
     shall be reprogrammed within or transferred between 
     appropriations based upon an initial notification provided 
     after June 30, except in extraordinary circumstances that 
     imminently threaten the safety of human life or the 
     protection of property.
       (e) The notification thresholds and procedures set forth in 
     subsections (a), (b), (c), and (d) shall apply to any use of 
     deobligated balances of funds provided in previous Department 
     of Homeland Security Appropriations Acts.
       (f) Notwithstanding subsection (c), the Secretary of 
     Homeland Security may transfer to the fund established by 8 
     U.S.C. 1101 note, up to $20,000,000 from appropriations 
     available to the Department of Homeland Security:  Provided, 
     That the Secretary shall notify the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives 
     5 days in advance of such transfer.
       Sec. 504.  Section 504 of the Department of Homeland 
     Security Appropriations Act, 2017 (division F of Public Law 
     115-31), related to the operations of a working capital fund, 
     shall apply with respect to funds made available in this Act 
     in the same manner as such section applied to funds made 
     available in that Act.
       Sec. 505.  Except as otherwise specifically provided by 
     law, not to exceed 50 percent of unobligated balances 
     remaining available at the end of fiscal year 2018, as 
     recorded in the financial records at the time of a 
     reprogramming notification, but not later than June 30, 2019, 
     from appropriations for ``Operations and Support'' and for 
     ``Coast Guard--Operating Expenses'', and salaries and 
     expenses for ``Coast Guard--Acquisition, Construction, and 
     Improvements'' and ``Coast Guard--Reserve Training'' for 
     fiscal year 2018 in this Act shall remain available through 
     September 30, 2019, in the account and for the purposes for 
     which the appropriations were provided:  Provided, That prior 
     to the obligation of such funds, a notification shall be 
     submitted to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate 
     and the House of Representatives in accordance with section 
     503.
       Sec. 506.  Funds made available by this Act for 
     intelligence activities are deemed to be specifically 
     authorized by the Congress for purposes of section 504 of the 
     National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 414) during fiscal 
     year 2018 until the enactment of an Act authorizing 
     intelligence activities for fiscal year 2018.
       Sec. 507. (a) The Secretary of Homeland Security, or the 
     designee of the Secretary, shall notify the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives 
     at least 3 full business days in advance of--
       (1) making or awarding a grant allocation, grant, contract, 
     other transaction agreement, or task or delivery order on a 
     Department of Homeland Security multiple award contract, or 
     to issue a letter of intent totaling in excess of $1,000,000;
       (2) awarding a task or delivery order requiring an 
     obligation of funds in an amount greater than $10,000,000 
     from multi-year Department of Homeland Security funds;
       (3) making a sole-source grant award; or
       (4) announcing publicly the intention to make or award 
     items under paragraph (1), (2), or (3), including a contract 
     covered by the Federal Acquisition Regulation.
       (b) If the Secretary of Homeland Security determines that 
     compliance with this section would pose a substantial risk to 
     human life, health, or safety, an award may be made without 
     notification, and the Secretary shall notify the Committees 
     on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
     Representatives not later than 5 full business days after 
     such an award is made or letter issued.
       (c) A notification under this section--
       (1) may not involve funds that are not available for 
     obligation; and
       (2) shall include the amount of the award; the fiscal year 
     for which the funds for the award were appropriated; the type 
     of contract; and the account from which the funds are being 
     drawn.
       Sec. 508.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no 
     agency shall purchase, construct, or lease any additional 
     facilities, except within or contiguous to existing 
     locations, to be used for the purpose of conducting Federal 
     law enforcement training without advance notification to the 
     Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
     Representatives, except that the Federal Law Enforcement 
     Training Centers is authorized to obtain the temporary use of 
     additional facilities by lease, contract, or other agreement 
     for training that cannot be accommodated in existing Center 
     facilities.
       Sec. 509.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available by this Act may be used for expenses for any 
     construction, repair, alteration, or acquisition project for 
     which a prospectus otherwise required under chapter 33 of 
     title 40, United States Code, has not been approved, except 
     that necessary funds may be expended for each project for 
     required expenses for the development of a proposed 
     prospectus.
       Sec. 510.  Sections 520, 522, and 530 of the Department of 
     Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2008 (division E of 
     Public Law 110-161; 121 Stat. 2073 and 2074) shall apply with 
     respect to funds made available in this Act in the same 
     manner as such sections applied to funds made available in 
     that Act.
       Sec. 511.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used in contravention of the applicable provisions of the 
     Buy American Act:  Provided, That for purposes of the 
     preceding sentence, the term ``Buy American Act'' means 
     chapter 83 of title 41, United States Code.
       Sec. 512.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used to amend the oath of

[[Page H6924]]

     allegiance required by section 337 of the Immigration and 
     Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1448).
       Sec. 513.  Section 519 of division F of Public Law 114-113, 
     regarding a prohibition on funding for any position 
     designated as a Principal Federal Official, shall apply with 
     respect to funds made available in this Act in the same 
     manner as such section applied to funds made available in 
     that Act.
       Sec. 514.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used for planning, testing, piloting, or developing a 
     national identification card.
       Sec. 515.  Any official that is required by this Act to 
     report or to certify to the Committees on Appropriations of 
     the Senate and the House of Representatives may not delegate 
     such authority to perform that act unless specifically 
     authorized herein.
       Sec. 516.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available in this or any other Act may be used to transfer, 
     release, or assist in the transfer or release to or within 
     the United States, its territories, or possessions Khalid 
     Sheikh Mohammed or any other detainee who--
       (1) is not a United States citizen or a member of the Armed 
     Forces of the United States; and
       (2) is or was held on or after June 24, 2009, at the United 
     States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, by the Department 
     of Defense.
       Sec. 517.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used for first-class travel by the employees of agencies 
     funded by this Act in contravention of sections 301-10.122 
     through 301-10.124 of title 41, Code of Federal Regulations.
       Sec. 518.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used to employ workers described in section 274A(h)(3) of 
     the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1324a(h)(3)).
       Sec. 519.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, 
     none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by 
     this Act may be used to pay award or incentive fees for 
     contractor performance that has been judged to be below 
     satisfactory performance or performance that does not meet 
     the basic requirements of a contract.
       Sec. 520.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available by this Act may be used by the Department of 
     Homeland Security to enter into any Federal contract unless 
     such contract is entered into in accordance with the 
     requirements of subtitle I of title 41, United States Code, 
     or chapter 137 of title 10, United States Code, and the 
     Federal Acquisition Regulation, unless such contract is 
     otherwise authorized by statute to be entered into without 
     regard to the above referenced statutes.
       Sec. 521. (a) For an additional amount for financial 
     systems modernization, $42,233,000, to remain available until 
     September 30, 2019.
       (b) Funds made available in subsection (a) for financial 
     systems modernization may be transferred by the Secretary of 
     Homeland Security between appropriations for the same 
     purpose, notwithstanding section 503 of this Act.
       (c) No transfer described in subsection (b) shall occur 
     until 15 days after the Committees on Appropriations of the 
     Senate and the House of Representatives are notified of such 
     transfer.
       Sec. 522. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act 
     may be used to maintain or establish a computer network 
     unless such network blocks the viewing, downloading, and 
     exchanging of pornography.
       (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
     necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law 
     enforcement agency or any other entity carrying out criminal 
     investigations, prosecution, or adjudication activities.
       Sec. 523.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used by a Federal law enforcement officer to facilitate 
     the transfer of an operable firearm to an individual if the 
     Federal law enforcement officer knows or suspects that the 
     individual is an agent of a drug cartel unless law 
     enforcement personnel of the United States continuously 
     monitor or control the firearm at all times.
       Sec. 524.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used to pay for the travel to or attendance of more than 
     50 employees of a single component of the Department of 
     Homeland Security, who are stationed in the United States, at 
     a single international conference unless the Secretary of 
     Homeland Security, or a designee, determines that such 
     attendance is in the national interest and notifies the 
     Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
     Representatives within at least 10 days of that determination 
     and the basis for that determination:  Provided, That for 
     purposes of this section the term ``international 
     conference'' shall mean a conference occurring outside of the 
     United States attended by representatives of the United 
     States Government and of foreign governments, international 
     organizations, or nongovernmental organizations:  Provided 
     further, That the total cost to the Department of Homeland 
     Security of any such conference shall not exceed $500,000.
       Sec. 525.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used to reimburse any Federal department or agency for its 
     participation in a National Special Security Event.
       Sec. 526.  None of the funds made available to the 
     Department of Homeland Security by this or any other Act may 
     be obligated for any structural pay reform that affects more 
     than 100 full-time positions or costs more than $5,000,000 in 
     a single year before the end of the 30-day period beginning 
     on the date on which the Secretary of Homeland Security 
     submits to Congress a notification that includes--
       (1) the number of full-time positions affected by such 
     change;
       (2) funding required for such change for the current year 
     and through the Future Years Homeland Security Program;
       (3) justification for such change; and
       (4) an analysis of compensation alternatives to such change 
     that were considered by the Department.
       Sec. 527. (a) Any agency receiving funds made available in 
     this Act shall, subject to subsections (b) and (c), post on 
     the public website of that agency any report required to be 
     submitted by the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate 
     and the House of Representatives in this Act, upon the 
     determination by the head of the agency that it shall serve 
     the national interest.
       (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to a report if--
       (1) the public posting of the report compromises homeland 
     or national security; or
       (2) the report contains proprietary information.
       (c) The head of the agency posting such report shall do so 
     only after such report has been made available to the 
     Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
     Representatives for not less than 45 days except as otherwise 
     specified in law.
       Sec. 528. (a) Funding provided in this Act for ``Operations 
     and Support'' may be used for minor procurement, 
     construction, and improvements.
       (b) For purposes of subsection (a), ``minor'' refers to end 
     items with a unit cost of $250,000 or less for personal 
     property, and $2,000,000 or less for real property.
       Sec. 529.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be obligated or expended to implement the Arms Trade Treaty 
     until the Senate approves a resolution of ratification for 
     the Treaty.
       Sec. 530.  For fiscal year 2018, the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security may provide, out of funds available to the 
     Department of Homeland Security, for the primary and 
     secondary schooling of dependents of Department of Homeland 
     Security personnel who are stationed outside the continental 
     United States and for the transportation of such dependents 
     in the same manner and to the same extent that, pursuant to 
     14 U.S.C. 544, the Secretary may provide, out of funds 
     appropriated to or for the use of the Coast Guard, for the 
     primary and secondary schooling of, and the transportation 
     of, dependents of Coast Guard personnel stationed outside the 
     continental United States.

                             (rescissions)

       Sec. 531.  Of the funds appropriated to the Department of 
     Homeland Security, the following funds are hereby rescinded 
     from the following accounts and programs in the specified 
     amounts:  Provided, That no amounts may be rescinded from 
     amounts that were designated by the Congress as an emergency 
     requirement pursuant to a concurrent resolution on the budget 
     or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
     1985 (Public Law 99-177):
       (1) $12,928,000 from Public Law 115-31 under the heading 
     ``Transportation Security Administration--Operations and 
     Support'';
       (2) $1,785,697 from Public Law 108-334 under the heading 
     ``Coast Guard--Alteration of Bridges'';
       (3) $1,920,100 from Public Law 109-90 under the heading 
     ``Coast Guard--Alteration of Bridges'';
       (4) $1,791,454 from Public Law 109-295 under the heading 
     ``Coast Guard--Alteration of Bridges'';
       (5) $3,221,594 from Public Law 110-161 under the heading 
     ``Coast Guard--Alteration of Bridges'';
       (6) $3,680,885 from Public Law 111-83 under the heading 
     ``Coast Guard--Alteration of Bridges'';
       (7) $25,000,000 from Public Law 114-113 under the heading 
     ``Coast Guard--Acquisition, Construction, and Improvements''; 
     and
       (8) $95,000,000 from Public Law 115-31 under the heading 
     ``Coast Guard--Acquisition, Construction, and Improvements''.

                             (rescissions)

       Sec. 532.  From the unobligated balances available in the 
     Department of the Treasury Forfeiture Fund established by 
     section 9703 of title 31, United States Code (added by 
     section 638 of Public Law 102-393), $187,000,000 shall be 
     rescinded.
       Sec. 534.  Not later than 90 days from the date of this 
     Act, the Commissioner of United States Customs and Border 
     Protection shall: (a) conduct a survey of international 
     passenger traffic at the airports listed in section 122.15(b) 
     of title 19, Code of Federal Regulations, and designate any 
     airport as a port of entry if that airport: (1) has scheduled 
     international service by one or more air carriers; and (2) 
     received over 75,000 international passenger arrivals during 
     the most recent calendar year in which federal passenger data 
     is available; (b) ensure a sufficient number of United States 
     Customs and Border Protection officers are available at any 
     airport designated as a port of entry under subsection (a) in 
     order for landing rights requests to be granted in accordance 
     with section 122.14 of title 19, Code of Federal Regulations.
       Sec. 535.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act for 
     U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement shall be available 
     to pay for an abortion, except where the life of the mother 
     would be endangered if the fetus were carried

[[Page H6925]]

     to term, or in the case of rape or incest: Provided, That 
     should this prohibition be declared unconstitutional by a 
     court of competent jurisdiction, this section shall be null 
     and void.
       Sec. 536.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act for 
     U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement shall be used to 
     require any person to perform, or facilitate in any way the 
     performance of, any abortion.
       Sec. 537.  Nothing in the preceding section shall remove 
     the obligation of the Assistant Secretary of Homeland 
     Security for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement to 
     provide escort services necessary for a female detainee to 
     receive such service outside the detention facility: 
     Provided, That nothing in this section in any way diminishes 
     the effect of section ____ [preceding section] intended to 
     address the philosophical beliefs of individual employees of 
     U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.
       Sec. 538.  In fiscal year 2018, nonimmigrants shall be 
     admitted to the United States under section 
     101(a)(15)(H)(ii)(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act 
     (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(H)(ii)(a)) to perform agricultural 
     labor or services, without regard to whether such labor is, 
     or services are, of a temporary or seasonal nature.
       Sec. 539. (a) Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) of 
     section 201 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, 
     Christopher William Gard, Constance Rhoda Keely Yates, and 
     Charles Matthew William Gard shall each be eligible for 
     issuance of an immigrant visa or for adjustment of status to 
     that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence 
     upon filing an application for issuance of an immigrant visa 
     under section 204 of such Act or for adjustment of status to 
     lawful permanent resident.
       (b) If Christopher William Gard, Constance Rhoda Keely 
     Yates, or Charles Matthew William Gard enters the United 
     States before the filing deadline specified in subsection 
     (c), he or she shall be considered to have entered and 
     remained lawfully and shall, if otherwise eligible, be 
     eligible for adjustment of status under section 245 of the 
     Immigration and Nationality Act as of the date of the 
     enactment of this Act.
       (c) Subsections (a) and (b) shall apply only if the 
     application for issuance of an immigrant visa or the 
     application for adjustment of status is filed with 
     appropriate fees within 2 years after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act.
       (d) Upon the granting of an immigrant visa or permanent 
     residence to Christopher William Gard, Constance Rhoda Keely 
     Yates, and Charles Matthew William Gard, the Secretary of 
     State shall instruct the proper officer to reduce by 3, 
     during the current or next following fiscal year, the total 
     number of immigrant visas that are made available to natives 
     of the country of the aliens' birth under section 203(a) of 
     the Immigration and Nationality Act or, if applicable, the 
     total number of immigrant visas that are made available to 
     natives of the country of the aliens' birth under section 
     202(e) of such Act.
       (e) The natural parents, brothers, and sisters of 
     Christopher William Gard, Constance Rhoda Keely Yates, and 
     Charles Matthew William Gard shall not, by virtue of such 
     relationship, be accorded any right, privilege, or status 
     under the Immigration and Nationality Act.


                         statue of limitations

       Sec. 540. 
       (a) In General.--Section 705 of the Robert T. Stafford 
     Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5205) 
     is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)(1)--
       (A) by striking ``Except'' and inserting ``Notwithstanding 
     section 3716(e) of title 31, United States Code, and 
     except''; and
       (B) by striking ``report for the disaster or emergency'' 
     and inserting ``report for project completion as certified by 
     the grantee''; and
       (2) in subsection (b)--
       (A) in paragraph (1) by striking ``report for the disaster 
     or emergency'' and inserting ``report for project completion 
     as certified by the grantee''; and
       (B) in paragraph (3) by inserting ``for project completion 
     as certified by the grantee'' after ``final expenditure 
     report''.
       (b) Applicability.--
       (1) In general.--With respect to disaster or emergency 
     assistance provided to a State or local government on or 
     after January 1, 2004--
       (A) no administrative action may be taken to recover a 
     payment of such assistance after the date of enactment of 
     this Act if the action is prohibited under section 705(a)(1) 
     of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
     Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5205(a)(1)); and
       (B) any administrative action to recover a payment of such 
     assistance that is pending on such date of enactment shall be 
     terminated if the action is prohibited under section 
     705(a)(1) of such Act.
       (2) Limitation.--This section and the amendments made by 
     this section, may not be construed to invalidate or otherwise 
     affect any administration action completed before the date of 
     enactment of this Act.

                           references to act

       Sec. 541.  Except as expressly provided otherwise, any 
     reference to ``this Act'' contained in this division shall be 
     treated as referring only to the provisions of this division.

                          reference to report

       Sec. 542.  Any reference to a ``report accompanying this 
     Act'' contained in this division or the Department of 
     Homeland Security Border Infrastructure Construction 
     Appropriations Act, 2018, shall be treated as a reference to 
     House Report 115-239. The effect of such Report shall be 
     limited to this division and such Act and shall apply for 
     purposes of determining the allocation of funds provided by, 
     and the implementation of, this division and such Act.

                       spending reduction account

       Sec. 543.  $0.
       This division may be cited as the ``Department of Homeland 
     Security Appropriations Act, 2018''.

   DIVISION F--DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND 
        EDUCATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2018

        The following sums are appropriated, out of any money in 
     the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the Departments 
     of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and 
     related agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
     2018, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                          DEPARTMENT OF LABOR

                 Employment and Training Administration

                    training and employment services

       For necessary expenses of the Workforce Innovation and 
     Opportunity Act (referred to in this Act as ``WIOA''), the 
     Second Chance Act of 2007, $3,042,720,000, plus 
     reimbursements, shall be available. Of the amounts provided:
       (1) for grants to States for adult employment and training 
     activities, youth activities, and dislocated worker 
     employment and training activities, $2,624,108,000 as 
     follows:
       (A) $776,736,000 for adult employment and training 
     activities, of which $64,736,000 shall be available for the 
     period July 1, 2018 through June 30, 2019, and of which 
     $712,000,000 shall be available for the period October 1, 
     2018 through June 30, 2019;
       (B) $831,842,000 for youth activities, which shall be 
     available for the period April 1, 2018 through June 30, 2019; 
     and
       (C) $1,015,530,000 for dislocated worker employment and 
     training activities, of which $155,530,000 shall be available 
     for the period July 1, 2018 through June 30, 2019, and of 
     which $860,000,000 shall be available for the period October 
     1, 2018 through June 30, 2019:
       Provided , That the funds available for allotment to 
     outlying areas to carry out subtitle B of title I of the WIOA 
     shall not be subject to the requirements of section 
     127(b)(1)(B)(ii) of such Act; and
       (2) for national programs, $418,612,000 as follows:
       (A) $130,000,000 for the dislocated workers assistance 
     national reserve, which shall be available for the period 
     October 1, 2017 through September 30, 2019:  Provided, That 
     funds provided to carry out section 132(a)(2)(A) of the WIOA 
     may be used to provide assistance to a State for statewide or 
     local use in order to address cases where there have been 
     worker dislocations across multiple sectors or across 
     multiple local areas and such workers remain dislocated; 
     coordinate the State workforce development plan with emerging 
     economic development needs; and train such eligible 
     dislocated workers:  Provided further, That funds provided to 
     carry out section 168(b) of the WIOA may be used for 
     technical assistance projects that provide assistance to new 
     entrants in the workforce and incumbent workers:  Provided 
     further, That notwithstanding section 168(b) of the WIOA, of 
     the funds provided under this subparagraph, the Secretary of 
     Labor (referred to in this title as ``Secretary'') may 
     reserve not more than 10 percent of such funds to provide 
     technical assistance and carry out additional activities 
     related to the transition to the WIOA:  Provided further, 
     That, of the funds provided under this subparagraph, up to 
     $66,000,000 may be made available for applications submitted 
     in accordance with section 170 of the WIOA for training and 
     employment assistance for workers in the Appalachian region, 
     as defined by 40 U.S.C. 14102 (a)(1);
       (B) $50,000,000 for Native American programs under section 
     166 of the WIOA, which shall be available for the period July 
     1, 2018 through June 30, 2019;
       (C) $72,000,000 for migrant and seasonal farmworker 
     programs under section 167 of the WIOA, including $66,716,000 
     for formula grants (of which not less than 70 percent shall 
     be for employment and training services), $4,850,000 for 
     migrant and seasonal housing (of which not less than 70 
     percent shall be for permanent housing), and $434,000 for 
     other discretionary purposes, which shall be available for 
     the period July 1, 2018 through June 30, 2019:  Provided, 
     That notwithstanding any other provision of law or related 
     regulation, the Department of Labor shall take no action 
     limiting the number or proportion of eligible participants 
     receiving related assistance services or discouraging 
     grantees from providing such services;
       (D) $84,534,000 for YouthBuild activities as described in 
     section 171 of the WIOA, which shall be available for the 
     period April 1, 2018 through June 30, 2019; and
       (E) $82,078,000 for ex-offender activities, under the 
     authority of section 169 of the WIOA and section 212 of the 
     Second Chance Act of 2007, which shall be available for the 
     period April 1, 2018 through June 30, 2019:  Provided, That 
     of this amount, $25,000,000 shall be for competitive grants 
     to national and regional intermediaries for activities that 
     prepare young ex-offenders and school dropouts for 
     employment, with a priority for

[[Page H6926]]

     projects serving high-crime, high-poverty areas.

                               job corps

                     (including transfer of funds)

       To carry out subtitle C of title I of the WIOA, including 
     Federal administrative expenses, the purchase and hire of 
     passenger motor vehicles, the construction, alteration, and 
     repairs of buildings and other facilities, and the purchase 
     of real property for training centers as authorized by the 
     WIOA, $1,688,155,000, plus reimbursements, as follows:
       (1) $1,572,886,000 for Job Corps Operations, which shall be 
     available for the period July 1, 2018 through June 30, 2019;
       (2) $83,000,000 for construction, rehabilitation and 
     acquisition of Job Corps Centers, which shall be available 
     for the period July 1, 2018 through June 30, 2021, and which 
     may include the acquisition, maintenance, and repair of major 
     items of equipment:  Provided, That the Secretary may 
     transfer up to 15 percent of such funds to meet the 
     operational needs of such centers or to achieve 
     administrative efficiencies:  Provided further, That any 
     funds transferred pursuant to the preceding proviso shall not 
     be available for obligation after June 30, 2019:  Provided 
     further, That the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
     of Representatives and the Senate are notified at least 15 
     days in advance of any transfer; and
       (3) $32,269,000 for necessary expenses of Job Corps, which 
     shall be available for obligation for the period October 1, 
     2017 through September 30, 2018:
       Provided, That no funds from any other appropriation shall 
     be used to provide meal services at or for Job Corps centers.

              federal unemployment benefits and allowances

       For payments during fiscal year 2018 of trade adjustment 
     benefit payments and allowances under part I of subchapter B 
     of chapter 2 of title II of the Trade Act of 1974, and 
     section 246 of that Act; and for training, employment and 
     case management services, allowances for job search and 
     relocation, and related State administrative expenses under 
     part II of subchapter B of chapter 2 of title II of the Trade 
     Act of 1974, and including benefit payments, allowances, 
     training, employment and case management services, and 
     related State administration provided pursuant to section 
     231(a) of the Trade Adjustment Assistance Extension Act of 
     2011 and section 405(a) of the Trade Preferences Extension 
     Act of 2015, $790,000,000 together with such amounts as may 
     be necessary to be charged to the subsequent appropriation 
     for payments for any period subsequent to September 15, 2018: 
      Provided, That notwithstanding section 502 of this Act, any 
     part of the appropriation provided under this heading may 
     remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal 
     year pursuant to the authorities of section 245(c) of the 
     Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2317(c)).

     state unemployment insurance and employment service operations

       For authorized administrative expenses, $70,000,000, 
     together with not to exceed $2,760,903,000 which may be 
     expended from the Employment Security Administration Account 
     in the Unemployment Trust Fund (``the Trust Fund''), of 
     which:
       (1) $2,665,775,000 from the Trust Fund is for grants to 
     States for the administration of State unemployment insurance 
     laws as authorized under title III of the Social Security Act 
     (including not less than $160,000,000 to conduct in-person 
     reemployment and eligibility assessments and unemployment 
     insurance improper payment reviews, and to provide 
     reemployment services and referrals to training as 
     appropriate, for claimants of unemployment insurance for ex-
     service members under 5 U.S.C. 8521 et. seq. and for 
     claimants of regular unemployment compensation, including 
     those who are profiled as most likely to exhaust their 
     benefits in each State, and $6,000,000 for continued support 
     of the Unemployment Insurance Integrity Center of 
     Excellence), the administration of unemployment insurance for 
     Federal employees and for ex-service members as authorized 
     under 5 U.S.C. 8501-8523, and the administration of trade 
     readjustment allowances, reemployment trade adjustment 
     assistance, and alternative trade adjustment assistance under 
     the Trade Act of 1974 and under section 231(a) of the Trade 
     Adjustment Assistance Extension Act of 2011 and section 
     405(a) of the Trade Preferences Extension Act of 2015, and 
     shall be available for obligation by the States through 
     December 31, 2018, except that funds used for automation 
     shall be available for Federal obligation through December 
     31, 2018, and for State obligation through September 30, 
     2020, or, if the automation is being carried out through 
     consortia of States, for State obligation through September 
     30, 2023, and for expenditure through September 30, 2024, and 
     funds for competitive grants awarded to States for improved 
     operations and to conduct in-person reemployment and 
     eligibility assessments and unemployment insurance improper 
     payment reviews and provide reemployment services and 
     referrals to training, as appropriate, shall be available for 
     Federal obligation through December 31, 2018, and for 
     obligation by the States through September 30, 2020, and 
     funds for the Unemployment Insurance Integrity Center of 
     Excellence shall be available for obligation by the State 
     through September 30, 2019, and funds used for unemployment 
     insurance workloads experienced through September 30, 2018 
     shall be available for Federal obligation through December 
     31, 2018;
       (2) $13,000,000 from the Trust Fund is for national 
     activities necessary to support the administration of the 
     Federal-State unemployment insurance system;
       (3) $19,818,000 from the Trust Fund is for national 
     activities of the Employment Service, including 
     administration of the work opportunity tax credit under 
     section 51 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and the 
     provision of technical assistance and staff training under 
     the Wagner-Peyser Act;
       (4) $62,310,000 from the Trust Fund is for the 
     administration of foreign labor certifications and related 
     activities under the Immigration and Nationality Act and 
     related laws, of which $48,028,000 shall be available for the 
     Federal administration of such activities, and $14,282,000 
     shall be available for grants to States for the 
     administration of such activities; and
       (5) $70,000,000 from the General Fund is to provide 
     workforce information, national electronic tools, and one-
     stop system building under the Wagner-Peyser Act and shall be 
     available for Federal obligation for the period July 1, 2018 
     through June 30, 2019:
       Provided, That to the extent that the Average Weekly 
     Insured Unemployment (``AWIU'') for fiscal year 2018 is 
     projected by the Department of Labor to exceed 2,246,000, an 
     additional $28,600,000 from the Trust Fund shall be available 
     for obligation for every 100,000 increase in the AWIU level 
     (including a pro rata amount for any increment less than 
     100,000) to carry out title III of the Social Security Act:  
     Provided further, That funds appropriated in this Act that 
     are allotted to a State to carry out activities under title 
     III of the Social Security Act may be used by such State to 
     assist other States in carrying out activities under such 
     title III if the other States include areas that have 
     suffered a major disaster declared by the President under the 
     Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance 
     Act:  Provided further, That the Secretary may use funds 
     appropriated for grants to States under title III of the 
     Social Security Act to make payments on behalf of States for 
     the use of the National Directory of New Hires under section 
     453(j)(8) of such Act:  Provided further, That the Secretary 
     may use funds appropriated for grants to States under title 
     III of the Social Security Act to make payments on behalf of 
     States to the entity operating the State Information Data 
     Exchange System: Provided further, That the Secretary may use 
     funds appropriated for grants to States under title III of 
     the Social Security Act to make payments on behalf of States 
     to the entity operating the Unemployment Insurance Integrity 
     Center of Excellence:  Provided further, That funds 
     appropriated in this Act which are used to establish a 
     national one-stop career center system, or which are used to 
     support the national activities of the Federal-State 
     unemployment insurance, employment service, or immigration 
     programs, may be obligated in contracts, grants, or 
     agreements with States and non-State entities:  Provided 
     further, That States awarded competitive grants for improved 
     operations under title III of the Social Security Act, or 
     awarded grants to support the national activities of the 
     Federal-State unemployment insurance system, may award 
     subgrants to other States and non-State entities under such 
     grants, subject to the conditions applicable to the grants:  
     Provided further, That funds appropriated under this Act for 
     activities authorized under title III of the Social Security 
     Act and the Wagner-Peyser Act may be used by States to fund 
     integrated Unemployment Insurance and Employment Service 
     automation efforts, notwithstanding cost allocation 
     principles prescribed under the final rule entitled ``Uniform 
     Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit 
     Requirements for Federal Awards'' at part 200 of title 2, 
     Code of Federal Regulations:  Provided further, That the 
     Secretary, at the request of a State participating in a 
     consortium with other States, may reallot funds allotted to 
     such State under title III of the Social Security Act to 
     other States participating in the consortium in order to 
     carry out activities that benefit the administration of the 
     unemployment compensation law of the State making the 
     request:  Provided further, That the Secretary may collect 
     fees for the costs associated with additional data 
     collection, analyses, and reporting services relating to the 
     National Agricultural Workers Survey requested by State and 
     local governments, public and private institutions of higher 
     education, and nonprofit organizations and may utilize such 
     sums, in accordance with the provisions of 29 U.S.C. 9a, for 
     the National Agricultural Workers Survey infrastructure, 
     methodology, and data to meet the information collection and 
     reporting needs of such entities, which shall be credited to 
     this appropriation and shall remain available until September 
     30, 2019, for such purposes.

        advances to the unemployment trust fund and other funds

       For repayable advances to the Unemployment Trust Fund as 
     authorized by sections 905(d) and 1203 of the Social Security 
     Act, and to the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund as 
     authorized by section 9501(c)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code 
     of 1986; and for nonrepayable advances to the revolving fund 
     established by section 901(e) of the Social Security Act, to 
     the Unemployment Trust Fund as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 8509, 
     and to the ``Federal Unemployment Benefits and Allowances'' 
     account, such sums as may be

[[Page H6927]]

     necessary, which shall be available for obligation through 
     September 30, 2019.

                         program administration

       For expenses of administering employment and training 
     programs, $106,461,000, together with not to exceed 
     $49,887,000 which may be expended from the Employment 
     Security Administration Account in the Unemployment Trust 
     Fund.

               Employee Benefits Security Administration

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses for the Employee Benefits Security 
     Administration, $175,600,000.

                  Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation

               pension benefit guaranty corporation fund

       The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (``Corporation'') 
     is authorized to make such expenditures, including financial 
     assistance authorized by subtitle E of title IV of the 
     Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, within 
     limits of funds and borrowing authority available to the 
     Corporation, and in accord with law, and to make such 
     contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year 
     limitations, as provided by 31 U.S.C. 9104, as may be 
     necessary in carrying out the program, including associated 
     administrative expenses, through September 30, 2018, for the 
     Corporation:  Provided, That none of the funds available to 
     the Corporation for fiscal year 2018 shall be available for 
     obligations for administrative expenses in excess of 
     $424,417,000:  Provided further, That to the extent that the 
     number of new plan participants in plans terminated by the 
     Corporation exceeds 100,000 in fiscal year 2018, an amount 
     not to exceed an additional $9,200,000 shall be available 
     through September 30, 2019, for obligation for administrative 
     expenses for every 20,000 additional terminated participants: 
      Provided further, That obligations in excess of the amounts 
     provided in this paragraph may be incurred for unforeseen and 
     extraordinary pretermination expenses or extraordinary 
     multiemployer program related expenses after approval by the 
     Office of Management and Budget and notification of the 
     Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
     and the Senate.

                         Wage and Hour Division

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses for the Wage and Hour Division, 
     including reimbursement to State, Federal, and local agencies 
     and their employees for inspection services rendered, 
     $217,500,000.

                  Office of Labor-management Standards

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses for the Office of Labor-Management 
     Standards, $41,129,000.

             Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses for the Office of Federal Contract 
     Compliance Programs, $94,500,000.

                Office of Workers' Compensation Programs

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses for the Office of Workers' 
     Compensation Programs, $114,377,000, together with $2,173,000 
     which may be expended from the Special Fund in accordance 
     with sections 39(c), 44(d), and 44(j) of the Longshore and 
     Harbor Workers' Compensation Act.

                            special benefits

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For the payment of compensation, benefits, and expenses 
     (except administrative expenses) accruing during the current 
     or any prior fiscal year authorized by 5 U.S.C. 81; 
     continuation of benefits as provided for under the heading 
     ``Civilian War Benefits'' in the Federal Security Agency 
     Appropriation Act, 1947; the Employees' Compensation 
     Commission Appropriation Act, 1944; section 5(f) of the War 
     Claims Act (50 U.S.C. App. 2004); obligations incurred under 
     the War Hazards Compensation Act (42 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); 
     and 50 percent of the additional compensation and benefits 
     required by section 10(h) of the Longshore and Harbor 
     Workers' Compensation Act, $220,000,000, together with such 
     amounts as may be necessary to be charged to the subsequent 
     year appropriation for the payment of compensation and other 
     benefits for any period subsequent to August 15 of the 
     current year, for deposit into and to assume the attributes 
     of the Employees' Compensation Fund established under 5 
     U.S.C. 8147(a):  Provided, That amounts appropriated may be 
     used under 5 U.S.C. 8104 by the Secretary to reimburse an 
     employer, who is not the employer at the time of injury, for 
     portions of the salary of a re-employed, disabled 
     beneficiary:  Provided further, That balances of 
     reimbursements unobligated on September 30, 2017, shall 
     remain available until expended for the payment of 
     compensation, benefits, and expenses:  Provided further, That 
     in addition there shall be transferred to this appropriation 
     from the Postal Service and from any other corporation or 
     instrumentality required under 5 U.S.C. 8147(c) to pay an 
     amount for its fair share of the cost of administration, such 
     sums as the Secretary determines to be the cost of 
     administration for employees of such fair share entities 
     through September 30, 2018:  Provided further, That of those 
     funds transferred to this account from the fair share 
     entities to pay the cost of administration of the Federal 
     Employees' Compensation Act, $71,188,000 shall be made 
     available to the Secretary as follows:
       (1) For enhancement and maintenance of automated data 
     processing systems operations and telecommunications systems, 
     $24,540,000;
       (2) For automated workload processing operations, including 
     document imaging, centralized mail intake, and medical bill 
     processing, $22,968,000;
       (3) For periodic roll disability management and medical 
     review, $21,946,000;
       (4) For program integrity, $1,734,000; and
       (5) The remaining funds shall be paid into the Treasury as 
     miscellaneous receipts:
       Provided further, That the Secretary may require that any 
     person filing a notice of injury or a claim for benefits 
     under 5 U.S.C. 81, or the Longshore and Harbor Workers' 
     Compensation Act, provide as part of such notice and claim, 
     such identifying information (including Social Security 
     account number) as such regulations may prescribe.

               special benefits for disabled coal miners

       For carrying out title IV of the Federal Mine Safety and 
     Health Act of 1977, as amended by Public Law 107-275, 
     $54,319,000, to remain available until expended.
       For making after July 31 of the current fiscal year, 
     benefit payments to individuals under title IV of such Act, 
     for costs incurred in the current fiscal year, such amounts 
     as may be necessary.
       For making benefit payments under title IV for the first 
     quarter of fiscal year 2019, $15,000,000, to remain available 
     until expended.

    administrative expenses, energy employees occupational illness 
                           compensation fund

       For necessary expenses to administer the Energy Employees 
     Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act, $59,846,000, 
     to remain available until expended:  Provided, That the 
     Secretary may require that any person filing a claim for 
     benefits under the Act provide as part of such claim such 
     identifying information (including Social Security account 
     number) as may be prescribed.

                    black lung disability trust fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Such sums as may be necessary from the Black Lung 
     Disability Trust Fund (the ``Fund''), to remain available 
     until expended, for payment of all benefits authorized by 
     section 9501(d)(1), (2), (6), and (7) of the Internal Revenue 
     Code of 1986; and repayment of, and payment of interest on 
     advances, as authorized by section 9501(d)(4) of that Act. In 
     addition, the following amounts may be expended from the Fund 
     for fiscal year 2018 for expenses of operation and 
     administration of the Black Lung Benefits program, as 
     authorized by section 9501(d)(5): not to exceed $38,246,000 
     for transfer to the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, 
     ``Salaries and Expenses''; not to exceed $30,595,000 for 
     transfer to Departmental Management, ``Salaries and 
     Expenses''; not to exceed $330,000 for transfer to 
     Departmental Management, ``Office of Inspector General''; and 
     not to exceed $356,000 for payments into miscellaneous 
     receipts for the expenses of the Department of the Treasury.

             Occupational Safety and Health Administration

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses for the Occupational Safety and 
     Health Administration, $531,470,000, including not to exceed 
     $100,850,000 which shall be the maximum amount available for 
     grants to States under section 23(g) of the Occupational 
     Safety and Health Act (the ``Act''), which grants shall be no 
     less than 50 percent of the costs of State occupational 
     safety and health programs required to be incurred under 
     plans approved by the Secretary under section 18 of the Act; 
     and, in addition, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, the 
     Occupational Safety and Health Administration may retain up 
     to $499,000 per fiscal year of training institute course 
     tuition and fees, otherwise authorized by law to be 
     collected, and may utilize such sums for occupational safety 
     and health training and education:  Provided, That 
     notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, the Secretary is authorized, 
     during the fiscal year ending September 30, 2018, to collect 
     and retain fees for services provided to Nationally 
     Recognized Testing Laboratories, and may utilize such sums, 
     in accordance with the provisions of 29 U.S.C. 9a, to 
     administer national and international laboratory recognition 
     programs that ensure the safety of equipment and products 
     used by workers in the workplace:  Provided further, That 
     none of the funds appropriated under this paragraph shall be 
     obligated or expended to prescribe, issue, administer, or 
     enforce any standard, rule, regulation, or order under the 
     Act which is applicable to any person who is engaged in a 
     farming operation which does not maintain a temporary labor 
     camp and employs 10 or fewer employees:  Provided further, 
     That no funds appropriated under this paragraph shall be 
     obligated or expended to administer or enforce any standard, 
     rule, regulation, or order under the Act with respect to any 
     employer of 10 or fewer employees who is included within a 
     category having a Days Away, Restricted, or Transferred 
     (``DART'') occupational injury and illness rate, at the most 
     precise industrial classification code for which such data 
     are published, less than the national average rate as such 
     rates are most recently published by the Secretary, acting 
     through the Bureau of Labor Statistics, in accordance with 
     section 24 of the Act, except--

[[Page H6928]]

       (1) to provide, as authorized by the Act, consultation, 
     technical assistance, educational and training services, and 
     to conduct surveys and studies;
       (2) to conduct an inspection or investigation in response 
     to an employee complaint, to issue a citation for violations 
     found during such inspection, and to assess a penalty for 
     violations which are not corrected within a reasonable 
     abatement period and for any willful violations found;
       (3) to take any action authorized by the Act with respect 
     to imminent dangers;
       (4) to take any action authorized by the Act with respect 
     to health hazards;
       (5) to take any action authorized by the Act with respect 
     to a report of an employment accident which is fatal to one 
     or more employees or which results in hospitalization of two 
     or more employees, and to take any action pursuant to such 
     investigation authorized by the Act; and
       (6) to take any action authorized by the Act with respect 
     to complaints of discrimination against employees for 
     exercising rights under the Act:
       Provided further, That the foregoing proviso shall not 
     apply to any person who is engaged in a farming operation 
     which does not maintain a temporary labor camp and employs 10 
     or fewer employees:  Provided further, That not less than 
     $3,500,000 shall be for Voluntary Protection Programs.

                 Mine Safety and Health Administration

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses for the Mine Safety and Health 
     Administration, $359,975,000, including purchase and bestowal 
     of certificates and trophies in connection with mine rescue 
     and first-aid work, and the hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
     including up to $2,000,000 for mine rescue and recovery 
     activities and not less than $10,537,000 for State assistance 
     grants:  Provided, That amounts available for State 
     assistance grants may be used for the purchase and 
     maintenance of new equipment required by the final rule 
     entitled ``Lowering Miners' Exposure to Respirable Coal Mine 
     Dust, Including Continuous Personal Dust Monitors'' published 
     by the Department of Labor in the Federal Register on May 1, 
     2014 (79 Fed. Reg. 24813 et seq.), for operators that 
     demonstrate financial need as determined by the Secretary:  
     Provided further, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, not to 
     exceed $750,000 may be collected by the National Mine Health 
     and Safety Academy for room, board, tuition, and the sale of 
     training materials, otherwise authorized by law to be 
     collected, to be available for mine safety and health 
     education and training activities:  Provided further, That 
     notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, the Mine Safety and Health 
     Administration is authorized to collect and retain up to 
     $2,499,000 from fees collected for the approval and 
     certification of equipment, materials, and explosives for use 
     in mines, and may utilize such sums for such activities:  
     Provided further, That the Secretary is authorized to accept 
     lands, buildings, equipment, and other contributions from 
     public and private sources and to prosecute projects in 
     cooperation with other agencies, Federal, State, or private:  
     Provided further, That the Mine Safety and Health 
     Administration is authorized to promote health and safety 
     education and training in the mining community through 
     cooperative programs with States, industry, and safety 
     associations:  Provided further, That the Secretary is 
     authorized to recognize the Joseph A. Holmes Safety 
     Association as a principal safety association and, 
     notwithstanding any other provision of law, may provide funds 
     and, with or without reimbursement, personnel, including 
     service of Mine Safety and Health Administration officials as 
     officers in local chapters or in the national organization:  
     Provided further, That any funds available to the Department 
     of Labor may be used, with the approval of the Secretary, to 
     provide for the costs of mine rescue and survival operations 
     in the event of a major disaster.

                       Bureau of Labor Statistics

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses for the Bureau of Labor Statistics, 
     including advances or reimbursements to State, Federal, and 
     local agencies and their employees for services rendered, 
     $544,000,000, together with not to exceed $65,000,000 which 
     may be expended from the Employment Security Administration 
     account in the Unemployment Trust Fund.

                 Office of Disability Employment Policy

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses for the Office of Disability 
     Employment Policy to provide leadership, develop policy and 
     initiatives, and award grants furthering the objective of 
     eliminating barriers to the training and employment of people 
     with disabilities, $36,800,000.

                        Departmental Management

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For necessary expenses for Departmental Management, 
     including the hire of three passenger motor vehicles, 
     $272,539,000, together with not to exceed $308,000, which may 
     be expended from the Employment Security Administration 
     account in the Unemployment Trust Fund:  Provided , That 
     funds available to the Bureau of International Labor Affairs 
     may be used to administer or operate international labor 
     activities, bilateral and multilateral technical assistance, 
     and microfinance programs, by or through contracts, grants, 
     subgrants and other arrangements:  Provided further, That 
     $8,040,000 shall be used for program evaluation and shall be 
     available for obligation through September 30, 2019:  
     Provided further, That funds available for program evaluation 
     may be used to administer grants for the purpose of 
     evaluation:  Provided further, That grants made for the 
     purpose of evaluation shall be awarded through fair and open 
     competition:  Provided further, That funds available for 
     program evaluation may be transferred to any other 
     appropriate account in the Department for such purpose:  
     Provided further, That the Committees on Appropriations of 
     the House of Representatives and the Senate are notified at 
     least 15 days in advance of any transfer:  Provided further, 
     That the funds available to the Women's Bureau may be used 
     for grants to serve and promote the interests of women in the 
     workforce:  Provided further, That of the amounts made 
     available to the Women's Bureau, $994,000 shall be used for 
     grants authorized by the Women in Apprenticeship and 
     Nontraditional Occupations Act.

                    veterans employment and training

       Not to exceed $236,514,000 may be derived from the 
     Employment Security Administration account in the 
     Unemployment Trust Fund to carry out the provisions of 
     chapters 41, 42, and 43 of title 38, United States Code, of 
     which:
       (1) $175,000,000 is for Jobs for Veterans State grants 
     under 38 U.S.C. 4102A(b)(5) to support disabled veterans' 
     outreach program specialists under section 4103A of such 
     title and local veterans' employment representatives under 
     section 4104(b) of such title, and for the expenses described 
     in section 4102A(b)(5)(C), which shall be available for 
     obligation by the States through December 31, 2018, and not 
     to exceed 3 percent for the necessary Federal expenditures 
     for data systems and contract support to allow for the 
     tracking of participant and performance information:  
     Provided, That, in addition, such funds may be used to 
     support such specialists and representatives in the provision 
     of services to transitioning members of the Armed Forces who 
     have participated in the Transition Assistance Program and 
     have been identified as in need of intensive services, to 
     members of the Armed Forces who are wounded, ill, or injured 
     and receiving treatment in military treatment facilities or 
     warrior transition units, and to the spouses or other family 
     caregivers of such wounded, ill, or injured members;
       (2) $16,073,000 is for carrying out the Transition 
     Assistance Program under 38 U.S.C. 4113 and 10 U.S.C. 1144;
       (3) $42,027,000 is for Federal administration of chapters 
     41, 42, and 43 of title 38, United States Code: Provided, 
     That of such amounts, not more than $1,000,000 shall be 
     available for necessary expenses of the HIRE Vets Medallion 
     Award Program authorized by the HIRE Vets Act (Division O of 
     the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2017 (Public Law 115-31; 
     38 U.S.C. 4100 note)), which shall be in addition to amounts 
     available in the HIRE Vets Medallion Award Fund established 
     by section 5 of such Act; and
       (4) $3,414,000 is for the National Veterans' Employment and 
     Training Services Institute under 38 U.S.C. 4109:
       Provided, That the Secretary may reallocate among the 
     appropriations provided under paragraphs (1) through (4) 
     above an amount not to exceed 3 percent of the appropriation 
     from which such reallocation is made: Provided further, That 
     the HIRE Vets Medallion Award Fund shall be available to the 
     Secretary for necessary expenses of the HIRE Vets Medallion 
     Award Program authorized by the Hire Vets Act (Division O of 
     the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2017 (Public Law 115-31; 
     38 U.S.C. 4100 note)).
       In addition, from the General Fund of the Treasury, 
     $47,537,000 is for carrying out programs to assist homeless 
     veterans and veterans at risk of homelessness who are 
     transitioning from certain institutions under sections 2021, 
     2021A, and 2023 of title 38, United States Code:  Provided, 
     That notwithstanding subsections (c)(3) and (d) of section 
     2023, the Secretary may award grants through September 30, 
     2018, to provide services under such section:  Provided 
     further, That services provided under section 2023 may 
     include, in addition to services to the individuals described 
     in subsection (e) of such section, services to veterans 
     recently released from incarceration who are at risk of 
     homelessness.

                            it modernization

       For necessary expenses for Department of Labor centralized 
     infrastructure technology investment activities related to 
     support systems and modernization, $20,769,000, which shall 
     be available through September 30, 2019.

                      office of inspector general

       For salaries and expenses of the Office of Inspector 
     General in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector 
     General Act of 1978, $83,487,000, together with not to exceed 
     $5,660,000 which may be expended from the Employment Security 
     Administration account in the Unemployment Trust Fund.

                           General Provisions

       Sec. 101.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act for 
     the Job Corps shall be used to pay the salary and bonuses of 
     an individual, either as direct costs or any proration as an 
     indirect cost, at a rate in excess of Executive Level II.

                          (transfer of funds)

       Sec. 102.  Not to exceed 1 percent of any discretionary 
     funds (pursuant to the Balanced

[[Page H6929]]

     Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985) which are 
     appropriated for the current fiscal year for the Department 
     of Labor in this Act may be transferred between a program, 
     project, or activity, but no such program, project, or 
     activity shall be increased by more than 3 percent by any 
     such transfer:  Provided, That the transfer authority granted 
     by this section shall not be used to create any new program 
     or to fund any project or activity for which no funds are 
     provided in this Act:  Provided further, That the Committees 
     on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
     Senate are notified at least 15 days in advance of any 
     transfer.
       Sec. 103.  In accordance with Executive Order 13126, none 
     of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
     pursuant to this Act shall be obligated or expended for the 
     procurement of goods mined, produced, manufactured, or 
     harvested or services rendered, in whole or in part, by 
     forced or indentured child labor in industries and host 
     countries already identified by the United States Department 
     of Labor prior to enactment of this Act.
       Sec. 104.  Except as otherwise provided in this section, 
     none of the funds made available to the Department of Labor 
     for grants under section 414(c) of the American 
     Competitiveness and Workforce Improvement Act of 1998 (29 
     U.S.C. 2916a) may be used for any purpose other than 
     competitive grants for training individuals who are older 
     than 16 years of age and are not currently enrolled in school 
     within a local educational agency in the occupations and 
     industries for which employers are using H-1B visas to hire 
     foreign workers, and the related activities necessary to 
     support such training.
       Sec. 105.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     under the heading ``Employment and Training Administration'' 
     shall be used by a recipient or subrecipient of such funds to 
     pay the salary and bonuses of an individual, either as direct 
     costs or indirect costs, at a rate in excess of Executive 
     Level II. This limitation shall not apply to vendors 
     providing goods and services as defined in Office of 
     Management and Budget Circular A-133. Where States are 
     recipients of such funds, States may establish a lower limit 
     for salaries and bonuses of those receiving salaries and 
     bonuses from subrecipients of such funds, taking into account 
     factors including the relative cost-of-living in the State, 
     the compensation levels for comparable State or local 
     government employees, and the size of the organizations that 
     administer Federal programs involved including Employment and 
     Training Administration programs.

                          (transfer of funds)

       Sec. 106. (a) Notwithstanding section 102, the Secretary 
     may transfer funds made available to the Employment and 
     Training Administration by this Act, either directly or 
     through a set-aside, for technical assistance services to 
     grantees to ``Program Administration'' when it is determined 
     that those services will be more efficiently performed by 
     Federal employees:  Provided, That this section shall not 
     apply to section 171 of the WIOA.
       (b) Notwithstanding section 102, the Secretary may transfer 
     not more than 0.5 percent of each discretionary appropriation 
     made available to the Employment and Training Administration 
     by this Act to ``Program Administration'' in order to carry 
     out program integrity activities relating to any of the 
     programs or activities that are funded under any such 
     discretionary appropriations:  Provided, That funds 
     transferred from under paragraphs (1) and (2) of the ``Office 
     of Job Corps'' account shall be available under paragraph (3) 
     of such account in order to carry out program integrity 
     activities relating to the Job Corps program:  Provided 
     further, That funds transferred under this subsection shall 
     be available for obligation through September 30, 2019.

                          (transfer of funds)

       Sec. 107. (a) The Secretary may reserve not more than 0.75 
     percent from each appropriation made available in this Act 
     identified in subsection (b) in order to carry out 
     evaluations of any of the programs or activities that are 
     funded under such accounts. Any funds reserved under this 
     section shall be transferred to ``Departmental Management'' 
     for use by the Office of the Chief Evaluation Officer within 
     the Department of Labor, and shall be available for 
     obligation through September 30, 2019:  Provided, That such 
     funds shall only be available if the Chief Evaluation Officer 
     of the Department of Labor submits a plan to the Committees 
     on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
     Senate describing the evaluations to be carried out 15 days 
     in advance of any transfer.
       (b) The accounts referred to in subsection (a) are: 
     ``Training and Employment Services'', ``Job Corps'', 
     ``Community Service Employment for Older Americans'', ``State 
     Unemployment Insurance and Employment Service Operations'', 
     ``Employee Benefits Security Administration'', ``Office of 
     Workers' Compensation Programs'', ``Wage and Hour Division'', 
     ``Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs'', ``Office 
     of Labor Management Standards'', ``Occupational Safety and 
     Health Administration'', ``Mine Safety and Health 
     Administration'', ``Office of Disability Employment Policy'', 
     funding made available to the ``Bureau of International Labor 
     Affairs'' and ``Women's Bureau'' within the ``Departmental 
     Management, Salaries and Expenses'' account, and ``Veterans 
     Employment and Training''.
       Sec. 108.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     beginning October 1, 2017, the Secretary of Labor, in 
     consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture may select an 
     entity to operate a Civilian Conservation Center on a 
     competitive basis in accordance with section 147 of the WIOA, 
     if the Secretary of Labor determines such Center has had 
     consistently low performance under the performance 
     accountability system in effect for the Job Corps program 
     prior to July 1, 2016, or with respect to expected levels of 
     performance established under section 159(c) of such Act 
     beginning July 1, 2016.
       Sec. 109. (a) Section 7 of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 
     1938 (29 U.S.C. 207) shall be applied as if the following 
     text is part of such section:
       ``(s)(1) The provisions of this section shall not apply for 
     a period of 2 years after the occurrence of a major disaster 
     to any employee--
       ``(A) employed to adjust or evaluate claims resulting from 
     or relating to such major disaster, by an employer not 
     engaged, directly or through an affiliate, in underwriting, 
     selling, or marketing property, casualty, or liability 
     insurance policies or contracts;
       ``(B) who receives from such employer on average weekly 
     compensation of not less than $591.00 per week or any minimum 
     weekly amount established by the Secretary, whichever is 
     greater, for the number of weeks such employee is engaged in 
     any of the activities described in subparagraph (C); and
       ``(C) whose duties include any of the following:
       ``(i) interviewing insured individuals, individuals who 
     suffered injuries or other damages or losses arising from or 
     relating to a disaster, witnesses, or physicians;
       ``(ii) inspecting property damage or reviewing factual 
     information to prepare damage estimates;
       ``(iii) evaluating and making recommendations regarding 
     coverage or compensability of claims or determining liability 
     or value aspects of claims;
       ``(iv) negotiating settlements; or
       ``(v) making recommendations regarding litigation.
       ``(2) The exemption in this subsection shall not affect the 
     exemption provided by section 13(a)(1).
       ``(3) For purposes of this subsection--
       ``(A) the term `major disaster' means any disaster or 
     catastrophe declared or designated by any State or Federal 
     agency or department;
       ``(B) the term `employee employed to adjust or evaluate 
     claims resulting from or relating to such major disaster' 
     means an individual who timely secured or secures a license 
     required by applicable law to engage in and perform the 
     activities described in clauses (i) through (v) of paragraph 
     (1)(C) relating to a major disaster, and is employed by an 
     employer that maintains worker compensation insurance 
     coverage or protection for its employees, if required by 
     applicable law, and withholds applicable Federal, State, and 
     local income and payroll taxes from the wages, salaries and 
     any benefits of such employees; and
       ``(C) the term `affiliate' means a company that, by reason 
     of ownership or control of 25 percent or more of the 
     outstanding shares of any class of voting securities of one 
     or more companies, directly or indirectly, controls, is 
     controlled by, or is under common control with, another 
     company.''.
       (b) This section shall be effective on the date of 
     enactment of this Act.

                              (rescission)

       Sec. 110.  Of the funds made available under the heading 
     ``Employment and Training Administration-Training and 
     Employment Services'' in division H of Public Law 115-31, 
     $200,000,000 is rescinded, to be derived from the amount made 
     available in paragraph (2)(A) under such heading for the 
     period October 1, 2017, through September 30, 2018.
       Sec. 111. (a) Flexibility With Respect to the Crossing of 
     H-2B Nonimmigrants Working in the Seafood Industry.--
       (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), if a petition 
     for H-2B nonimmigrants filed by an employer in the seafood 
     industry is granted, the employer may bring the nonimmigrants 
     described in the petition into the United States at any time 
     during the 120-day period beginning on the start date for 
     which the employer is seeking the services of the 
     nonimmigrants without filing another petition.
       (2) Requirements for crossings after 90th day.--An employer 
     in the seafood industry may not bring H-2B nonimmigrants into 
     the United States after the date that is 90 days after the 
     start date for which the employer is seeking the services of 
     the nonimmigrants unless the employer--
       (A) completes a new assessment of the local labor market 
     by--
       (i) listing job orders in local newspapers on 2 separate 
     Sundays; and
       (ii) posting the job opportunity on the appropriate 
     Department of Labor Electronic Job Registry and at the 
     employer's place of employment; and
       (B) offers the job to an equally or better qualified United 
     States worker who--
       (i) applies for the job; and
       (ii) will be available at the time and place of need.
       (3) Exemption from rules with respect to staggering.--The 
     Secretary of Labor shall not consider an employer in the 
     seafood industry who brings H-2B nonimmigrants into the 
     United States during the 120-day period specified in 
     paragraph (1) to be staggering

[[Page H6930]]

     the date of need in violation of section 655.20(d) of title 
     20, Code of Federal Regulations, or any other applicable 
     provision of law.
       (b) H-2B Nonimmigrants Defined.--In this section, the term 
     ``H-2B nonimmigrants'' means aliens admitted to the United 
     States pursuant to section 101(a)(15)(H)(ii)(B) of the 
     Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
     1101(a)(15)(H)(ii)(B)).
       Sec. 112.  The determination of prevailing wage for the 
     purposes of the H-2B program shall be the greater of--(1) the 
     actual wage level paid by the employer to other employees 
     with similar experience and qualifications for such position 
     in the same location; or (2) the prevailing wage level for 
     the occupational classification of the position in the 
     geographic area in which the H-2B nonimmigrant will be 
     employed, based on the best information available at the time 
     of filing the petition. In the determination of prevailing 
     wage for the purposes of the H-2B program, the Secretary 
     shall accept private wage surveys even in instances where 
     Occupational Employment Statistics survey data are available 
     unless the Secretary determines that the methodology and data 
     in the provided survey are not statistically supported.
       Sec. 113.  None of the funds in this Act shall be used to 
     enforce the definition of corresponding employment found in 
     20 CFR 655.5 or the three-fourths guarantee rule definition 
     found in 20 CFR 655.20, or any references thereto. Further, 
     for the purpose of regulating admission of temporary workers 
     under the H-2B program, the definition of temporary need 
     shall be that provided in 8 CFR 214.2(h)(6)(ii)(B).
       Sec. 114.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
     final rule issued by the Department of Labor entitled 
     ``Definition of the Term ``Fiduciary''; Conflict of Interest 
     Rule-Retirement Investment Advice'' and published by the 
     Department of Labor in the Federal Register on April 8, 2016 
     (81 Fed. Reg. 20946 et seq.), shall have no force or effect.
       This title may be cited as the ``Department of Labor 
     Appropriations Act, 2018''.

                                TITLE II

                DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

              Health Resources and Services Administration

                          primary health care

       For carrying out titles II and III of the Public Health 
     Service Act (referred to in this Act as the ``PHS Act'') with 
     respect to primary health care and the Native Hawaiian Health 
     Care Act of 1988, $1,491,522,000:  Provided, That no more 
     than $100,000 shall be available until expended for carrying 
     out the provisions of section 224(o) of the PHS Act:  
     Provided further, That no more than $99,893,000 shall be 
     available until expended for carrying out the provisions of 
     sections 224(g)-(n) and (q) of the PHS Act, and for expenses 
     incurred by the Department of Health and Human Services 
     (referred to in this Act as ``HHS'') pertaining to 
     administrative claims made under such law.

                            health workforce

       For carrying out titles III, VII, and VIII of the PHS Act 
     with respect to the health workforce, sections 1128E and 1921 
     of the Social Security Act, and the Health Care Quality 
     Improvement Act of 1986, $748,236,000:  Provided, That 
     sections 736(h)(1), 747(c)(2), 751(j)(2), 762(k), and the 
     proportional funding amounts in paragraphs (1) through (4) of 
     section 756(f) of the PHS Act shall not apply to funds made 
     available under this heading:  Provided further, That for any 
     program operating under section 751 of the PHS Act on or 
     before January 1, 2009, the Secretary of Health and Human 
     Services (referred to in this title as the ``Secretary'') may 
     hereafter waive any of the requirements contained in sections 
     751(d)(2)(A) and 751(d)(2)(B) of such Act for the full 
     project period of a grant under such section:  Provided 
     further, That no funds shall be available for section 340G-1 
     of the PHS Act:  Provided further, That fees collected for 
     the disclosure of information under section 427(b) of the 
     Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986 and sections 
     1128E(d)(2) and 1921 of the Social Security Act shall be 
     sufficient to recover the full costs of operating the 
     programs authorized by such sections and shall remain 
     available until expended for the National Practitioner Data 
     Bank:  Provided further, That funds transferred to this 
     account to carry out section 846 and subpart 3 of part D of 
     title III of the PHS Act may be used to make prior year 
     adjustments to awards made under such sections.

                       maternal and child health

       For carrying out titles III, XI, XII, and XIX of the PHS 
     Act with respect to maternal and child health, title V of the 
     Social Security Act, and section 712 of the American Jobs 
     Creation Act of 2004, $848,617,000:  Provided, That 
     notwithstanding sections 502(a)(1) and 502(b)(1) of the 
     Social Security Act, not more than $80,593,000 shall be 
     available for carrying out special projects of regional and 
     national significance pursuant to section 501(a)(2) of such 
     Act and $10,276,000 shall be available for projects described 
     in subparagraphs (A) through (F) of section 501(a)(3) of such 
     Act.

                      ryan white hiv/aids program

       For carrying out title XXVI of the PHS Act with respect to 
     the Ryan White HIV/AIDS program, $2,318,781,000, of which 
     $1,970,881,000 shall remain available to the Secretary 
     through September 30, 2020, for parts A and B of title XXVI 
     of the PHS Act, and of which not less than $900,313,000 shall 
     be for State AIDS Drug Assistance Programs under the 
     authority of section 2616 or 311(c) of such Act.

                          health care systems

       For carrying out titles III and XII of the PHS Act with 
     respect to health care systems, and the Stem Cell Therapeutic 
     and Research Act of 2005, $100,518,000.

                              rural health

       For carrying out titles III and IV of the PHS Act with 
     respect to rural health, section 427(a) of the Federal Coal 
     Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969, and sections 711 and 1820 
     of the Social Security Act, $156,060,000, of which 
     $43,609,000 from general revenues, notwithstanding section 
     1820(j) of the Social Security Act, shall be available for 
     carrying out the Medicare rural hospital flexibility grants 
     program:  Provided, That of the funds made available under 
     this heading for Medicare rural hospital flexibility grants, 
     $14,942,000 shall be available for the Small Rural Hospital 
     Improvement Grant Program for quality improvement and 
     adoption of health information technology and up to 
     $1,000,000 shall be to carry out section 1820(g)(6) of the 
     Social Security Act, with funds provided for grants under 
     section 1820(g)(6) available for the purchase and 
     implementation of telehealth services, including pilots and 
     demonstrations on the use of electronic health records to 
     coordinate rural veterans care between rural providers and 
     the Department of Veterans Affairs electronic health record 
     system:  Provided further, That notwithstanding section 
     338J(k) of the PHS Act, $10,000,000 shall be available for 
     State Offices of Rural Health.

                           program management

       For program support in the Health Resources and Services 
     Administration, $151,993,000:  Provided, That funds made 
     available under this heading may be used to supplement 
     program support funding provided under the headings ``Primary 
     Health Care'', ``Health Workforce'', ``Maternal and Child 
     Health'', ``Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program'', ``Health Care 
     Systems'', and ``Rural Health''.

             vaccine injury compensation program trust fund

       For payments from the Vaccine Injury Compensation Program 
     Trust Fund (the ``Trust Fund''), such sums as may be 
     necessary for claims associated with vaccine-related injury 
     or death with respect to vaccines administered after 
     September 30, 1988, pursuant to subtitle 2 of title XXI of 
     the PHS Act, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
     That for necessary administrative expenses, not to exceed 
     $8,250,000 shall be available from the Trust Fund to the 
     Secretary.

               Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

                 immunization and respiratory diseases

       For carrying out titles II, III, XVII, and XXI, and section 
     2821 of the PHS Act, titles II and IV of the Immigration and 
     Nationality Act, and section 501 of the Refugee Education 
     Assistance Act, with respect to immunization and respiratory 
     diseases, $470,700,000.

     hiv/aids, viral hepatitis, sexually transmitted diseases, and 
                        tuberculosis prevention

       For carrying out titles II, III, XVII, and XXIII of the PHS 
     Act with respect to HIV/AIDS, viral hepatitis, sexually 
     transmitted diseases, and tuberculosis prevention, 
     $1,117,278,000.

               emerging and zoonotic infectious diseases

       For carrying out titles II, III, and XVII, and section 2821 
     of the PHS Act, titles II and IV of the Immigration and 
     Nationality Act, and section 501 of the Refugee Education 
     Assistance Act, with respect to emerging and zoonotic 
     infectious diseases, $499,522,000.

            chronic disease prevention and health promotion

       For carrying out titles II, III, XI, XV, XVII, and XIX of 
     the PHS Act with respect to chronic disease prevention and 
     health promotion, $703,696,000:  Provided, That funds 
     appropriated under this account may be available for making 
     grants under section 1509 of the PHS Act for not less than 21 
     States, tribes, or tribal organizations:  Provided further, 
     That of the funds available under this heading, $10,000,000 
     shall be available to continue and expand community specific 
     extension and outreach programs to combat obesity in counties 
     with the highest levels of obesity:  Provided further, That 
     the proportional funding requirements under section 1503(a) 
     of the PHS Act shall not apply to funds made available under 
     this heading.

   birth defects, developmental disabilities, disabilities and health

       For carrying out titles II, III, XI, and XVII of the PHS 
     Act with respect to birth defects, developmental 
     disabilities, disabilities and health, $137,560,000.

                   public health scientific services

       For carrying out titles II, III, and XVII of the PHS Act 
     with respect to health statistics, surveillance, health 
     informatics, and workforce development, $328,697,000: 
     Provided, That in addition to amounts provided herein, 
     $150,700,000 shall be available from amounts available under 
     section 241 of the PHS Act to carry out Public Health 
     Scientific Services.

                          environmental health

       For carrying out titles II, III, and XVII of the PHS Act 
     with respect to environmental health, $142,750,000.

[[Page H6931]]

  


                     injury prevention and control

       For carrying out titles II, III, and XVII of the PHS Act 
     with respect to injury prevention and control, $286,059,000:  
     Provided, That of the funds provided under this heading, 
     $112,000,000 shall be available for an evidence-based opioid 
     drug overdose prevention program.

         national institute for occupational safety and health

       For carrying out titles II, III, and XVII of the PHS Act, 
     sections 101, 102, 103, 201, 202, 203, 301, and 501 of the 
     Federal Mine Safety and Health Act, section 13 of the Mine 
     Improvement and New Emergency Response Act, and sections 20, 
     21, and 22 of the Occupational Safety and Health Act, with 
     respect to occupational safety and health, $325,200,000.

       energy employees occupational illness compensation program

       For necessary expenses to administer the Energy Employees 
     Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act, $55,358,000, 
     to remain available until expended:  Provided, That this 
     amount shall be available consistent with the provision 
     regarding administrative expenses in section 151(b) of 
     division B, title I of Public Law 106-554.

                             global health

       For carrying out titles II, III, and XVII of the PHS Act 
     with respect to global health, $435,121,000, of which 
     $128,421,000 for international HIV/AIDS shall remain 
     available through September 30, 2019:  Provided, That funds 
     may be used for purchase and insurance of official motor 
     vehicles in foreign countries.

                public health preparedness and response

       For carrying out titles II, III, and XVII of the PHS Act 
     with respect to public health preparedness and response, and 
     for expenses necessary to support activities related to 
     countering potential biological, nuclear, radiological, and 
     chemical threats to civilian populations, $1,450,000,000, of 
     which $600,000,000 shall remain available until expended for 
     the Strategic National Stockpile:  Provided, That in the 
     event the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and 
     Prevention (referred to in this title as ``CDC'') activates 
     the Emergency Operations Center, the Director of the CDC may 
     detail CDC staff without reimbursement for up to 90 days to 
     support the work of the CDC Emergency Operations Center, so 
     long as the Director provides a notice to the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
     within 15 days of the use of this authority and a full report 
     within 30 days after use of this authority which includes the 
     number of staff and funding level broken down by the 
     originating center and number of days detailed:  Provided 
     further, That funds appropriated under this heading may be 
     used to support a contract for the operation and maintenance 
     of an aircraft in direct support of activities throughout CDC 
     to ensure the agency is prepared to address public health 
     preparedness emergencies.

                        buildings and facilities

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For acquisition of real property, equipment, construction, 
     demolition, and renovation of facilities, $10,000,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2022:  Provided, That 
     funds previously set-aside by CDC for repair and upgrade of 
     the Lake Lynn Experimental Mine and Laboratory shall be used 
     to acquire a replacement mine safety research facility:  
     Provided further, That in addition, the prior year 
     unobligated balance of any amounts assigned to former 
     employees in accounts of CDC made available for Individual 
     Learning Accounts shall be credited to and merged with the 
     amounts made available under this heading to support the 
     replacement of the mine safety research facility.

                cdc-wide activities and program support

       For carrying out titles II, III, XVII and XIX, and section 
     2821 of the PHS Act and for cross-cutting activities and 
     program support for activities funded in other appropriations 
     included in this Act for the Centers for Disease Control and 
     Prevention, $103,570,000:  Provided, That paragraphs (1) 
     through (3) of subsection (b) of section 2821 of the PHS Act 
     shall not apply to funds appropriated under this heading and 
     in all other accounts of the CDC:  Provided further, That 
     employees of CDC or the Public Health Service, both civilian 
     and commissioned officers, detailed to States, 
     municipalities, or other organizations under authority of 
     section 214 of the PHS Act, or in overseas assignments, shall 
     be treated as non-Federal employees for reporting purposes 
     only and shall not be included within any personnel ceiling 
     applicable to the Agency, Service, or HHS during the period 
     of detail or assignment:  Provided further, That CDC may use 
     up to $10,000 from amounts appropriated to CDC in this Act 
     for official reception and representation expenses when 
     specifically approved by the Director of CDC:  Provided 
     further, That in addition, such sums as may be derived from 
     authorized user fees, which shall be credited to the 
     appropriation charged with the cost thereof:  Provided 
     further, That with respect to the previous proviso, 
     authorized user fees from the Vessel Sanitation Program and 
     the Respirator Certification Program shall be available 
     through September 30, 2019.

                     National Institutes of Health

                       national cancer institute

       For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act 
     with respect to cancer, $5,471,181,000, of which up to 
     $10,000,000 may be used for facilities repairs and 
     improvements at the National Cancer Institute--Frederick 
     Federally Funded Research and Development Center in 
     Frederick, Maryland.

               national heart, lung, and blood institute

       For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act 
     with respect to cardiovascular, lung, and blood diseases, and 
     blood and blood products, $3,256,521,000.

         national institute of dental and craniofacial research

       For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act 
     with respect to dental and craniofacial diseases, 
     $432,363,000.

    national institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases

       For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act 
     with respect to diabetes and digestive and kidney disease, 
     $1,899,733,000.

        national institute of neurological disorders and stroke

       For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act 
     with respect to neurological disorders and stroke, 
     $1,810,011,000.

         national institute of allergy and infectious diseases

       For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act 
     with respect to allergy and infectious diseases, 
     $5,005,813,000.

             national institute of general medical sciences

       For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act 
     with respect to general medical sciences, $2,713,775,000, of 
     which $824,443,000 shall be from funds available under 
     section 241 of the PHS Act:  Provided, That not less than 
     $373,361,000 is provided for the Institutional Development 
     Awards program.

  eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human 
                              development

       For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act 
     with respect to child health and human development, 
     $1,401,727,000.

                         national eye institute

       For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act 
     with respect to eye diseases and visual disorders, 
     $743,881,000.

          national institute of environmental health sciences

       For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act 
     with respect to environmental health sciences, $725,387,000.

                      national institute on aging

       For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act 
     with respect to aging, $2,458,733,000.

 national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases

       For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act 
     with respect to arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin 
     diseases, $566,515,000.

    national institute on deafness and other communication disorders

       For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act 
     with respect to deafness and other communication disorders, 
     $443,624,000.

                 national institute of nursing research

       For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act 
     with respect to nursing research, $152,599,000.

           national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism

       For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act 
     with respect to alcohol abuse and alcoholism, $490,796,000.

                    national institute on drug abuse

       For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act 
     with respect to drug abuse, $1,107,497,000.

                  national institute of mental health

       For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act 
     with respect to mental health, $1,625,461,000.

                national human genome research institute

       For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act 
     with respect to human genome research, $536,774,000.

      national institute of biomedical imaging and bioengineering

       For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act 
     with respect to biomedical imaging and bioengineering 
     research, $362,506,000.

        national center for complementary and integrative health

       For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act 
     with respect to complementary and integrative health, 
     $136,741,000.

      national institute on minority health and health disparities

       For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act 
     with respect to minority health and health disparities 
     research, $293,583,000.

                  john e. fogarty international center

       For carrying out the activities of the John E. Fogarty 
     International Center (described in subpart 2 of part E of 
     title IV of the PHS Act), $73,353,000.

                      national library of medicine

       For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act 
     with respect to health information communications, 
     $413,848,000:  Provided, That of the amounts available for 
     improvement of information systems, $4,000,000 shall be 
     available until September 30, 2019:  Provided further, That 
     in fiscal year 2018, the National Library of Medicine may 
     enter into personal services contracts for the provision of 
     services in facilities owned, operated, or constructed under 
     the jurisdiction of the National Institutes of Health 
     (referred to in this title as ``NIH'').

[[Page H6932]]

  


          national center for advancing translational sciences

       For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act 
     with respect to translational sciences, $718,867,000:  
     Provided, That up to $25,835,000 shall be available to 
     implement section 480 of the PHS Act, relating to the Cures 
     Acceleration Network:  Provided further, That at least 
     $526,120,000 is provided to the Clinical and Translational 
     Sciences Awards program.

                         office of the director

       For carrying out the responsibilities of the Office of the 
     Director, NIH, $1,705,248,000:  Provided, That funding shall 
     be available for the purchase of not to exceed 29 passenger 
     motor vehicles for replacement only:  Provided further, That 
     all funds credited to the NIH Management Fund shall remain 
     available for one fiscal year after the fiscal year in which 
     they are deposited:  Provided further, That $165,000,000 
     shall be for the National Children's Study Follow-on:  
     Provided further, That $682,980,000 shall be available for 
     the Common Fund established under section 402A(c)(1) of the 
     PHS Act:  Provided further, That of the funds provided, 
     $10,000 shall be for official reception and representation 
     expenses when specifically approved by the Director of the 
     NIH:  Provided further, That the Office of AIDS Research 
     within the Office of the Director of the NIH may spend up to 
     $8,000,000 to make grants for construction or renovation of 
     facilities as provided for in section 2354(a)(5)(B) of the 
     PHS Act.
       In addition to other funds appropriated for the Common Fund 
     established under section 402A(c) of the PHS Act, $12,600,000 
     is appropriated to the Common Fund from the 10-year Pediatric 
     Research Initiative Fund described in section 9008 of title 
     26, United States Code, for the purpose of carrying out 
     section 402(b)(7)(B)(ii) of the PHS Act (relating to 
     pediatric research), as authorized in the Gabriella Miller 
     Kids First Research Act.

                        buildings and facilities

       For the study of, construction or demolition of, renovation 
     of, and acquisition of equipment for, facilities of or used 
     by NIH, including the acquisition of real property, 
     $128,863,000, to remain available through September 30, 2022.

                         nih innovation account

        For necessary expenses to carry out the purposes described 
     in section 1001(b)(4) of the 21st Century Cures Act, in 
     addition to amounts available for such purposes in the 
     appropriations provided to the NIH in this Act, $496,000,000, 
     to remain available until expended: Provided, That such 
     amounts are appropriated pursuant to section 1001(b)(3) of 
     such Act and are to be derived from amounts transferred under 
     section 1001(b)(2)(A) of such Act: Provided further, That of 
     the amount appropriated under this heading, $300,000,000 
     shall be transferred to the ``National Cancer Institute'' 
     account for the purposes described in section 1001(b)(4)(C) 
     of such Act, $43,000,000 shall be transferred to the 
     ``National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke'' 
     account for the purposes described in section 1001(b)(4)(B) 
     of such Act, and $43,000,000 shall be transferred to the 
     ``National Institute of Mental Health'' account for the 
     purposes described in section 1001(b)(4)(B) of such Act: 
     Provided further, That remaining amounts may be transferred 
     by the Director of the NIH to any accounts of the NIH: 
     Provided further, That upon a determination by the Director 
     that funds transferred pursuant to any of the previous 
     provisos are not necessary for the purposes provided, such 
     amounts may be transferred back to this account: Provided 
     further, That the transfer authority provided under this 
     heading is in addition to any other transfer authority 
     provided by law.

       Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration

                             mental health

       For carrying out titles III, V, and XIX of the PHS Act with 
     respect to mental health, and the Protection and Advocacy for 
     Individuals with Mental Illness Act, $928,668,000:  Provided, 
     That notwithstanding section 520A(f)(2) of the PHS Act, no 
     funds appropriated for carrying out section 520A shall be 
     available for carrying out section 1971 of the PHS Act:  
     Provided further, That in addition to amounts provided 
     herein, $21,039,000 shall be available under section 241 of 
     the PHS Act to carry out subpart I of part B of title XIX of 
     the PHS Act to fund section 1920(b) technical assistance, 
     national data, data collection and evaluation activities, and 
     further that the total available under this Act for section 
     1920(b) activities shall not exceed 5 percent of the amounts 
     appropriated for subpart I of part B of title XIX:  Provided 
     further, That States shall expend at least 10 percent of the 
     amount each receives for carrying out section 1911 of the PHS 
     Act to support evidence-based programs that address the needs 
     of individuals with early serious mental illness, including 
     psychotic disorders, regardless of the age of the individual 
     at onset:  Provided further, That none of the funds provided 
     for section 1911 of the PHS Act shall be subject to section 
     241 of such Act:  Provided further, That of the funds made 
     available under this heading, $15,000,000 shall be to carry 
     out section 224 of the Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 
     2014 (Public Law 113-93; 42 U.S.C. 290aa 22 note).

                       substance abuse treatment

       For carrying out titles III and V of the PHS Act with 
     respect to substance abuse treatment and title XIX of such 
     Act with respect to substance abuse treatment and prevention, 
     $2,130,306,000:  Provided, That in addition to amounts 
     provided herein, $81,200,000 shall be available under section 
     241 of the PHS Act to supplement funds otherwise available 
     for substance abuse treatment activities and to carry out 
     subpart II of part B of title XIX of the PHS Act to fund 
     section 1935(b) technical assistance, national data, data 
     collection and evaluation activities, and further that the 
     total available under this Act for section 1935(b) activities 
     shall not exceed 5 percent of the amounts appropriated for 
     subpart II of part B of title XIX:  Provided further, That 
     none of the funds provided for section 1921 of the PHS Act 
     shall be subject to section 241 of such Act.

                       substance abuse prevention

       For carrying out titles III and V of the PHS Act with 
     respect to substance abuse prevention, $165,373,000.

                health surveillance and program support

       For program support and cross-cutting activities that 
     supplement activities funded under the headings ``Mental 
     Health'', ``Substance Abuse Treatment'', and ``Substance 
     Abuse Prevention'' in carrying out titles III, V, and XIX of 
     the PHS Act and the Protection and Advocacy for Individuals 
     with Mental Illness Act in the Substance Abuse and Mental 
     Health Services Administration, $108,922,000:  Provided, That 
     in addition to amounts provided herein, $23,426,000 shall be 
     available under section 241 of the PHS Act to supplement 
     funds available to carry out national surveys on drug abuse 
     and mental health, to collect and analyze program data, and 
     to conduct public awareness and technical assistance 
     activities:  Provided further, That, in addition, fees may be 
     collected for the costs of publications, data, data 
     tabulations, and data analysis completed under title V of the 
     PHS Act and provided to a public or private entity upon 
     request, which shall be credited to this appropriation and 
     shall remain available until expended for such purposes:  
     Provided further, That amounts made available in this Act for 
     carrying out section 501(o) of the PHS Act shall remain 
     available through September 30, 2019:  Provided further, That 
     funds made available under this heading may be used to 
     supplement program support funding provided under the 
     headings ``Mental Health'', ``Substance Abuse Treatment'', 
     and ``Substance Abuse Prevention''.

               Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality

                    healthcare research and quality

       For carrying out titles III and IX of the PHS Act, part A 
     of title XI of the Social Security Act, and section 1013 of 
     the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and 
     Modernization Act of 2003, $300,000,000:  Provided, That 
     section 947(c) of the PHS Act shall not apply in fiscal year 
     2018:  Provided further, That in addition, amounts received 
     from Freedom of Information Act fees, reimbursable and 
     interagency agreements, and the sale of data shall be 
     credited to this appropriation and shall remain available 
     until September 30, 2019.

               Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services

                     grants to states for medicaid

       For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, titles XI 
     and XIX of the Social Security Act, $284,798,384,000, to 
     remain available until expended.
       For making, after May 31, 2018, payments to States under 
     title XIX or in the case of section 1928 on behalf of States 
     under title XIX of the Social Security Act for the last 
     quarter of fiscal year 2018 for unanticipated costs incurred 
     for the current fiscal year, such sums as may be necessary.
       For making payments to States or in the case of section 
     1928 on behalf of States under title XIX of the Social 
     Security Act for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, 
     $134,847,759,000, to remain available until expended.
       Payment under such title XIX may be made for any quarter 
     with respect to a State plan or plan amendment in effect 
     during such quarter, if submitted in or prior to such quarter 
     and approved in that or any subsequent quarter.

                  payments to health care trust funds

       For payment to the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund 
     and the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund, 
     as provided under sections 217(g), 1844, and 1860D-16 of the 
     Social Security Act, sections 103(c) and 111(d) of the Social 
     Security Amendments of 1965, section 278(d)(3) of Public Law 
     97-248, and for administrative expenses incurred pursuant to 
     section 201(g) of the Social Security Act, $323,497,300,000.
       In addition, for making matching payments under section 
     1844 and benefit payments under section 1860D-16 of the 
     Social Security Act that were not anticipated in budget 
     estimates, such sums as may be necessary.

                           program management

       For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, titles XI, 
     XVIII, XIX, and XXI of the Social Security Act, titles XIII 
     and XXVII of the PHS Act, and the Clinical Laboratory 
     Improvement Amendments of 1988, not to exceed $3,451,141,000, 
     to be transferred from the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust 
     Fund and the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust 
     Fund, as authorized by section 201(g) of the Social Security 
     Act; together with all funds collected in accordance with 
     section 353 of the PHS Act and section 1857(e)(2) of the 
     Social Security Act, funds retained by the Secretary pursuant 
     to section 1893(h) of the Social Security Act; and

[[Page H6933]]

     such sums as may be collected from authorized user fees and 
     the sale of data, which shall be credited to this account and 
     remain available until expended: Provided, That no funds 
     shall be derived from offsetting collections through fees 
     collected from qualified health plans offered through an 
     Exchange established under Public Law 111-148 to operate such 
     an Exchange:  Provided further, That all funds derived in 
     accordance with 31 U.S.C. 9701 from organizations established 
     under title XIII of the PHS Act shall be credited to and 
     available for carrying out the purposes of this 
     appropriation:  Provided further, That the Secretary is 
     directed to collect fees in fiscal year 2018 from Medicare 
     Advantage organizations pursuant to section 1857(e)(2) of the 
     Social Security Act and from eligible organizations with 
     risk-sharing contracts under section 1876 of that Act 
     pursuant to section 1876(k)(4)(D) of that Act.

              health care fraud and abuse control account

       In addition to amounts otherwise available for program 
     integrity and program management, $745,000,000, to remain 
     available through September 30, 2019, to be transferred from 
     the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal 
     Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund, as authorized by 
     section 201(g) of the Social Security Act, of which 
     $486,936,000 shall be for the Medicare Integrity Program at 
     the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, including 
     administrative costs, to conduct oversight activities for 
     Medicare Advantage under Part C and the Medicare Prescription 
     Drug Program under Part D of the Social Security Act and for 
     activities described in section 1893(b) of such Act, of which 
     $82,132,000 shall be for the Department of Health and Human 
     Services Office of Inspector General to carry out fraud and 
     abuse activities authorized by section 1817(k)(3) of such 
     Act, of which $82,132,000 shall be for the Medicaid and 
     Children's Health Insurance Program (``CHIP'') program 
     integrity activities, and of which $93,800,000 shall be for 
     the Department of Justice to carry out fraud and abuse 
     activities authorized by section 1817(k)(3) of such Act:  
     Provided, That the report required by section 1817(k)(5) of 
     the Social Security Act for fiscal year 2018 shall include 
     measures of the operational efficiency and impact on fraud, 
     waste, and abuse in the Medicare, Medicaid, and CHIP programs 
     for the funds provided by this appropriation:  Provided 
     further, That of the amount provided under this heading, 
     $311,000,000 is provided to meet the terms of section 
     251(b)(2)(C)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985, as amended, and $434,000,000 is 
     additional new budget authority specified for purposes of 
     section 251(b)(2)(C) of such Act:  Provided further, That the 
     Secretary shall support the Senior Medicare Patrol program to 
     combat health care fraud and abuse from the funds provided to 
     this account.

                Administration for Children and Families

  payments to states for child support enforcement and family support 
                                programs

       For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, titles I, 
     IV-D, X, XI, XIV, and XVI of the Social Security Act and the 
     Act of July 5, 1960, $2,995,400,000, to remain available 
     until expended; and for such purposes for the first quarter 
     of fiscal year 2019, $1,400,000,000, to remain available 
     until expended.
       For carrying out, after May 31 of the current fiscal year, 
     except as otherwise provided, titles I, IV-D, X, XI, XIV, and 
     XVI of the Social Security Act and the Act of July 5, 1960, 
     for the last 3 months of the current fiscal year for 
     unanticipated costs, incurred for the current fiscal year, 
     such sums as may be necessary.

                   low income home energy assistance

       For making payments under subsections (b) and (d) of 
     section 2602 of the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Act of 
     1981, $3,390,304,000:  Provided, That all but $491,000,000 of 
     this amount shall be allocated as though the total 
     appropriation for such payments for fiscal year 2018 was less 
     than $1,975,000,000:  Provided further, That notwithstanding 
     section 2609A(a), of the amounts appropriated under section 
     2602(b), not more than $2,988,000 of such amounts may be 
     reserved by the Secretary for technical assistance, training, 
     and monitoring of program activities for compliance with 
     internal controls, policies and procedures and may, in 
     addition to the authorities provided in section 2609A(a)(1), 
     use such funds through contracts with private entities that 
     do not qualify as nonprofit organizations.

                     refugee and entrant assistance

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For necessary expenses for refugee and entrant assistance 
     activities authorized by section 414 of the Immigration and 
     Nationality Act and section 501 of the Refugee Education 
     Assistance Act of 1980, and for carrying out section 462 of 
     the Homeland Security Act of 2002, section 235 of the William 
     Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization 
     Act of 2008, the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 
     (``TVPA''), and the Torture Victims Relief Act of 1998, 
     $1,022,811,000, of which $993,321,000 shall remain available 
     through September 30, 2020 for carrying out such sections 
     414, 501, 462, and 235:  Provided, That amounts available 
     under this heading to carry out the TVPA shall also be 
     available for research and evaluation with respect to 
     activities under such Act:  Provided further, That the 
     limitation in section 205 of this Act regarding transfers 
     increasing any appropriation shall apply to transfers to 
     appropriations under this heading by substituting ``10 
     percent'' for ``3 percent''.

   payments to states for the child care and development block grant

       For carrying out the Child Care and Development Block Grant 
     Act of 2014 (``CCDBG Act''), $2,860,000,000 shall be used to 
     supplement, not supplant State general revenue funds for 
     child care assistance for low-income families:  Provided, 
     That technical assistance under section 658I(a)(3) of such 
     Act may be provided directly, or through the use of 
     contracts, grants, cooperative agreements, or interagency 
     agreements:  Provided further, That all funds made available 
     to carry out section 418 of the Social Security Act (42 
     U.S.C. 618), including funds appropriated for that purpose in 
     such section 418 or any other provision of law, shall be 
     subject to the reservation of funds authority in paragraphs 
     (4) and (5) of section 658O(a) of the CCDBG Act.

                      social services block grant

       For making grants to States pursuant to section 2002 of the 
     Social Security Act, $1,700,000,000:  Provided, That 
     notwithstanding subparagraph (B) of section 404(d)(2) of such 
     Act, the applicable percent specified under such subparagraph 
     for a State to carry out State programs pursuant to title XX-
     A of such Act shall be 10 percent.

                children and families services programs

       For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, the Runaway 
     and Homeless Youth Act, the Head Start Act, the Every Student 
     Succeeds Act, the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act, 
     sections 303 and 313 of the Family Violence Prevention and 
     Services Act, the Native American Programs Act of 1974, title 
     II of the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment and Adoption 
     Reform Act of 1978 (adoption opportunities), part B-1 of 
     title IV and sections 429, 473A, 477(i), 1110, 1114A, and 
     1115 of the Social Security Act, and the Community Services 
     Block Grant Act (``CSBG Act''); for necessary administrative 
     expenses to carry out titles I, IV, V, X, XI, XIV, XVI, and 
     XX-A of the Social Security Act, the Act of July 5, 1960, the 
     Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Act of 1981, the Child Care 
     and Development Block Grant Act of 2014, the Assets for 
     Independence Act, title IV of the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act, and section 501 of the Refugee Education Assistance Act 
     of 1980, $11,181,500,000, of which $37,943,000, to remain 
     available through September 30, 2019, shall be for grants to 
     States for adoption and legal guardianship incentive 
     payments, as defined by section 473A of the Social Security 
     Act and may be made for adoptions and legal guardianships 
     completed before September 30, 2018:  Provided, That 
     $9,275,000,000 shall be for making payments under the Head 
     Start Act:  Provided further, That of the amount in the 
     previous proviso, $8,610,000,000 shall be available for 
     payments under section 640 of the Head Start Act, of which 
     $21,905,000 shall be available for a cost of living 
     adjustment notwithstanding section 640(a)(3)(A) of such Act:  
     Provided further, That of the amount provided for making 
     payments under the Head Start Act, $25,000,000 shall be 
     available for allocation by the Secretary to supplement 
     activities described in paragraphs (7)(B) and (9) of section 
     641(c) of such Act under the Designation Renewal System, 
     established under the authority of sections 641(c)(7), 
     645A(b)(12) and 645A(d) of such Act:  Provided further, That 
     notwithstanding such section 640, of the amount provided for 
     making payments under the Head Start Act, and in addition to 
     funds otherwise available under such section 640 for such 
     purposes, $640,000,000 shall be available through March 31, 
     2019 for Early Head Start programs as described in section 
     645A of such Act, for conversion of Head Start services to 
     Early Head Start services as described in section 
     645(a)(5)(A) of such Act, for discretionary grants for high 
     quality infant and toddler care through Early Head Start-
     Child Care Partnerships, to entities defined as eligible 
     under section 645A(d) of such Act, for training and technical 
     assistance for such activities, and for up to $14,000,000 in 
     Federal costs of administration and evaluation, and, 
     notwithstanding section 645A(c)(2) of such Act, these funds 
     are available to serve children under age 4:  Provided 
     further, That funds described in the preceding two provisos 
     shall not be included in the calculation of ``base grant'' in 
     subsequent fiscal years, as such term is used in section 
     640(a)(7)(A) of such Act:  Provided further, That 
     $250,000,000 shall be available until December 31, 2018 for 
     carrying out sections 9212 and 9213 of the Every Student 
     Succeeds Act:  Provided further, That up to 3 percent of the 
     funds in the preceding proviso shall be available for 
     technical assistance and evaluation related to grants awarded 
     under such section 9212: Provided further, That $617,500,000 
     shall be for making payments under the CSBG Act: Provided 
     further, That $17,850,000 shall be for sections 680 and 
     678E(b)(2) of the CSBG Act, of which not less than 
     $10,000,000 shall be for section 680(a)(2) and not less than 
     $7,500,000 shall be for section 680(a)(3)(B) of such Act: 
     Provided further, That, notwithstanding section 675C(a)(3) of 
     such Act, to the extent Community Services Block Grant funds 
     are distributed as grant funds by a State to an eligible 
     entity as provided under such Act, and have not been expended 
     by such entity, they shall remain with such entity for 
     carryover into the next fiscal year for expenditure by such 
     entity consistent with program purposes: Provided further, 
     That the Secretary shall establish procedures regarding the 
     disposition of intangible assets and program income

[[Page H6934]]

     that permit such assets acquired with, and program income 
     derived from, grant funds authorized under section 680 of the 
     CSBG Act to become the sole property of such grantees after a 
     period of not more than 12 years after the end of the grant 
     period for any activity consistent with section 680(a)(2)(A) 
     of the CSBG Act: Provided further, That intangible assets in 
     the form of loans, equity investments and other debt 
     instruments, and program income may be used by grantees for 
     any eligible purpose consistent with section 680(a)(2)(A) of 
     the CSBG Act: Provided further, That these procedures shall 
     apply to such grant funds made available after November 29, 
     1999: Provided further, That funds appropriated for section 
     680(a)(2) of the CSBG Act shall be available for financing 
     construction and rehabilitation and loans or investments in 
     private business enterprises owned by community development 
     corporations:  Provided further, That $1,864,000 shall be for 
     a human services case management system for federally 
     declared disasters, to include a comprehensive national case 
     management contract and Federal costs of administering the 
     system:  Provided further, That up to $2,000,000 shall be for 
     improving the Public Assistance Reporting Information System, 
     including grants to States to support data collection for a 
     study of the system's effectiveness.

                   promoting safe and stable families

       For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, section 436 
     of the Social Security Act, $325,000,000 and, for carrying 
     out, except as otherwise provided, section 437 of such Act, 
     $59,765,000:  Provided, That notwithstanding sections 
     438(c)(3)(A) and 436(b)(2) of such Act, $10,000,000 shall be 
     available for such section 436(b)(2), of which no funds shall 
     be available for carrying out sections 438(c)(3)(A)(ii) and 
     (iii) of such Act.

                payments for foster care and permanency

       For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, title IV-E 
     of the Social Security Act, $6,225,000,000.
       For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, title IV-E 
     of the Social Security Act, for the first quarter of fiscal 
     year 2019, $2,700,000,000.
       For carrying out, after May 31 of the current fiscal year, 
     except as otherwise provided, section 474 of title IV-E of 
     the Social Security Act, for the last 3 months of the current 
     fiscal year for unanticipated costs, incurred for the current 
     fiscal year, such sums as may be necessary.

                  Administration for Community Living

                 aging and disability services programs

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, the 
     Older Americans Act of 1965 (``OAA''), titles III and XXIX of 
     the PHS Act, sections 1252 and 1253 of the PHS Act, section 
     119 of the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers 
     Act of 2008, title XX-B of the Social Security Act, the 
     Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act, 
     parts 2 and 5 of subtitle D of title II of the Help America 
     Vote Act of 2002, the Assistive Technology Act of 1998, 
     titles II and VII (and section 14 with respect to such 
     titles) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and for 
     Department-wide coordination of policy and program activities 
     that assist individuals with disabilities, $2,237,224,000:  
     Provided, That amounts appropriated under this heading may be 
     used for grants to States under section 361 of the OAA only 
     for disease prevention and health promotion programs and 
     activities which have been demonstrated through rigorous 
     evaluation to be evidence-based and effective: Provided 
     further, That of the amounts provided under this heading, 
     $300,000,000 shall be available for carrying out title V of 
     the OAA: Provided further, That with respect to the previous 
     proviso, such funds shall be available through June 30, 2019, 
     and may be recaptured and reobligated in accordance with 
     section 517(c) of the OAA:  Provided further, That of amounts 
     made available under this heading to carry out sections 311, 
     331, and 336 of the OAA, up to one percent of such amounts 
     shall be available for developing and implementing evidence-
     based practices for enhancing senior nutrition:  Provided 
     further, That notwithstanding any other provision of this 
     Act, funds made available under this heading to carry out 
     section 311 of the OAA may be transferred to the Secretary of 
     Agriculture in accordance with such section:  Provided 
     further, That $2,000,000 shall be for competitive grants to 
     support alternative financing programs that provide for the 
     purchase of assistive technology devices, such as a low-
     interest loan fund; an interest buy-down program; a revolving 
     loan fund; a loan guarantee; or an insurance program:  
     Provided further, That applicants shall provide an assurance 
     that, and information describing the manner in which, the 
     alternative financing program will expand and emphasize 
     consumer choice and control:  Provided further, That State 
     agencies and community-based disability organizations that 
     are directed by and operated for individuals with 
     disabilities shall be eligible to compete:  Provided further, 
     That none of the funds made available under this heading may 
     be used by an eligible system (as defined in section 102 of 
     the Protection and Advocacy for Individuals with Mental 
     Illness Act (42 U.S.C. 10802)) to continue to pursue any 
     legal action in a Federal or State court on behalf of an 
     individual or group of individuals with a developmental 
     disability (as defined in section 102(8)(A) of the 
     Developmental Disabilities and Assistance and Bill of Rights 
     Act of 2000 (20 U.S.C. 15002(8)(A)) that is attributable to a 
     mental impairment (or a combination of mental and physical 
     impairments), that has as the requested remedy the closure of 
     State operated intermediate care facilities for people with 
     intellectual or developmental disabilities, unless reasonable 
     public notice of the action has been provided to such 
     individuals (or, in the case of mental incapacitation, the 
     legal guardians who have been specifically awarded authority 
     by the courts to make healthcare and residential decisions on 
     behalf of such individuals) who are affected by such action, 
     within 90 days of instituting such legal action, which 
     informs such individuals (or such legal guardians) of their 
     legal rights and how to exercise such rights consistent with 
     current Federal Rules of Civil Procedure:  Provided further, 
     That the limitations in the immediately preceding proviso 
     shall not apply in the case of an individual who is neither 
     competent to consent nor has a legal guardian, nor shall the 
     proviso apply in the case of individuals who are a ward of 
     the State or subject to public guardianship.

                        Office of the Secretary

                    general departmental management

       For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided, for general 
     departmental management, including hire of six passenger 
     motor vehicles, and for carrying out titles III, XVII, XXI, 
     and section 229 of the PHS Act, the United States-Mexico 
     Border Health Commission Act, and research studies under 
     section 1110 of the Social Security Act, $292,881,000, 
     together with $57,465,000 from the amounts available under 
     section 241 of the PHS Act to carry out national health or 
     human services research and evaluation activities:  Provided, 
     That of the funds made available under this heading, 
     $20,000,000 shall be for making competitive grants which 
     exclusively implement education in sexual risk avoidance 
     (defined as voluntarily refraining from non-marital sexual 
     activity):  Provided further, That funding for such 
     competitive grants for sexual risk avoidance shall use 
     medically accurate information referenced to peer-reviewed 
     publications by educational, scientific, governmental, or 
     health organizations; implement an evidence-based approach 
     integrating research findings with practical implementation 
     that aligns with the needs and desired outcomes for the 
     intended audience; and teach the benefits associated with 
     self-regulation, success sequencing for poverty prevention, 
     healthy relationships, goal setting, and resisting sexual 
     coercion, dating violence, and other youth risk behaviors 
     such as underage drinking or illicit drug use without 
     normalizing teen sexual activity:  Provided further, That no 
     more than 10 percent of the funding for such competitive 
     grants for sexual risk avoidance shall be available for 
     technical assistance and administrative costs of such 
     programs:  Provided further, That funds provided in this Act 
     for embryo adoption activities may be used to provide to 
     individuals adopting embryos, through grants and other 
     mechanisms, medical and administrative services deemed 
     necessary for such adoptions:  Provided further, That such 
     services shall be provided consistent with 42 CFR 59.5(a)(4).

      state response to the opioid abuse crisis account, cures act

        For necessary expenses to carry out the purposes described 
     under section 1003(c) of the 21st Century Cures Act, 
     $500,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
     That such amounts are appropriated pursuant to section 
     1003(b)(3) of the 21st Century Cures Act, are to be derived 
     from amounts transferred under section 1003(b)(2)(A) of such 
     Act, and may be transferred by the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services to other accounts of the Department solely for 
     the purposes provided in such Act: Provided further, That 
     such transfer authority is in addition to any other transfer 
     authority provided by law.

                office of medicare hearings and appeals

       For expenses necessary for the Office of Medicare Hearings 
     and Appeals, $112,381,000, to be transferred in appropriate 
     part from the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund and the 
     Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund: Provided, 
     That of amounts the Secretary retains for adjudications 
     related to Recovery Audit Contractor (RAC) appeals under 
     section 1893(h)(1)(c) of the Social Security Act, $5,000,000 
     shall be used as additional funds for the necessary expenses 
     of the Office of Medicare Hearings and Appeals and the 
     Departmental Appeals Board to process RAC-related appeals, 
     and to establish a process to provide educational feedback 
     from such Office and Board to the Centers for Medicare and 
     Medicaid Services to reduce the claims overturn rate from the 
     claims that are reviewed by such Office or Board.

  office of the national coordinator for health information technology

       For expenses necessary for the Office of the National 
     Coordinator for Health Information Technology, including 
     grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements for the 
     development and advancement of interoperable health 
     information technology, $38,381,000.

                      office of inspector general

       For expenses necessary for the Office of Inspector General, 
     including the hire of passenger motor vehicles for 
     investigations, in carrying out the provisions of the 
     Inspector General Act of 1978, $80,000,000:  Provided, That 
     of such amount, necessary sums shall be available for 
     providing protective services

[[Page H6935]]

     to the Secretary and investigating non-payment of child 
     support cases for which non-payment is a Federal offense 
     under 18 U.S.C. 228.

                        office for civil rights

       For expenses necessary for the Office for Civil Rights, 
     $38,798,000.

     retirement pay and medical benefits for commissioned officers

       For retirement pay and medical benefits of Public Health 
     Service Commissioned Officers as authorized by law, for 
     payments under the Retired Serviceman's Family Protection 
     Plan and Survivor Benefit Plan, and for medical care of 
     dependents and retired personnel under the Dependents' 
     Medical Care Act, such amounts as may be required during the 
     current fiscal year.

            public health and social services emergency fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For expenses necessary to support activities related to 
     countering potential biological, nuclear, radiological, 
     chemical, and cybersecurity threats to civilian populations, 
     and for other public health emergencies, $959,258,000, of 
     which $520,000,000 shall remain available through September 
     30, 2019, for expenses necessary to support advanced research 
     and development pursuant to section 319L of the PHS Act and 
     other administrative expenses of the Biomedical Advanced 
     Research and Development Authority:  Provided, That funds 
     provided under this heading for the purpose of acquisition of 
     security countermeasures shall be in addition to any other 
     funds available for such purpose:  Provided further, That 
     products purchased with funds provided under this heading 
     may, at the discretion of the Secretary, be deposited in the 
     Strategic National Stockpile pursuant to section 319F-2 of 
     the PHS Act:  Provided further, That $5,000,000 of the 
     amounts made available to support emergency operations shall 
     remain available through September 30, 2020.
       For expenses necessary for procuring security 
     countermeasures (as defined in section 319F-2(c)(1)(B) of the 
     PHS Act), $530,000,000, to remain available until expended.
       For an additional amount for expenses necessary to prepare 
     for or respond to an influenza pandemic, $250,000,000, of 
     which $210,000,000 shall be available until expended, for 
     activities including the development and purchase of vaccine, 
     antivirals, necessary medical supplies, diagnostics, and 
     other surveillance tools:  Provided, That notwithstanding 
     section 496(b) of the PHS Act, funds may be used for the 
     construction or renovation of privately owned facilities for 
     the production of pandemic influenza vaccines and other 
     biologics, if the Secretary finds such construction or 
     renovation necessary to secure sufficient supplies of such 
     vaccines or biologics: Provided further, That the limitation 
     in section 205 of this Act regarding transfers increasing any 
     appropriation shall apply to transfers to appropriations 
     under this heading by substituting ``10 percent'' for ``3 
     percent''.

                           General Provisions

       Sec. 201.  Funds appropriated in this title shall be 
     available for not to exceed $50,000 for official reception 
     and representation expenses when specifically approved by the 
     Secretary.
       Sec. 202.  None of the funds appropriated in this title 
     shall be used to pay the salary of an individual, through a 
     grant or other extramural mechanism, at a rate in excess of 
     Executive Level II.
       Sec. 203.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act may 
     be expended pursuant to section 241 of the PHS Act, except 
     for funds specifically provided for in this Act, or for other 
     taps and assessments made by any office located in HHS, prior 
     to the preparation and submission of a report by the 
     Secretary to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate detailing the planned uses of 
     such funds.
       Sec. 204.  Notwithstanding section 241(a) of the PHS Act, 
     such portion as the Secretary shall determine, but not more 
     than 2.4 percent, of any amounts appropriated for programs 
     authorized under such Act shall be made available for the 
     evaluation (directly, or by grants or contracts) and the 
     implementation and effectiveness of programs funded in this 
     title.

                          (transfer of funds)

       Sec. 205.  Not to exceed 1 percent of any discretionary 
     funds (pursuant to the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985) which are appropriated for the current 
     fiscal year for HHS in this Act may be transferred between 
     appropriations, but no such appropriation shall be increased 
     by more than 3 percent by any such transfer:  Provided, That 
     the transfer authority granted by this section shall not be 
     used to create any new program or to fund any project or 
     activity for which no funds are provided in this Act:  
     Provided further, That the Committees on Appropriations of 
     the House of Representatives and the Senate are notified at 
     least 15 days in advance of any transfer.
       Sec. 206.  In lieu of the timeframe specified in section 
     338E(c)(2) of the PHS Act, terminations described in such 
     section may occur up to 60 days after the execution of a 
     contract awarded in fiscal year 2018 under section 338B of 
     such Act.
       Sec. 207.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act may 
     be made available to any entity under title X of the PHS Act 
     unless the applicant for the award certifies to the Secretary 
     that it encourages family participation in the decision of 
     minors to seek family planning services and that it provides 
     counseling to minors on how to resist attempts to coerce 
     minors into engaging in sexual activities.
       Sec. 208.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no 
     provider of services under title X of the PHS Act shall be 
     exempt from any State law requiring notification or the 
     reporting of child abuse, child molestation, sexual abuse, 
     rape, or incest.
       Sec. 209.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
     (including funds appropriated to any trust fund) may be used 
     to carry out the Medicare Advantage program if the Secretary 
     denies participation in such program to an otherwise eligible 
     entity (including a Provider Sponsored Organization) because 
     the entity informs the Secretary that it will not provide, 
     pay for, provide coverage of, or provide referrals for 
     abortions:  Provided, That the Secretary shall make 
     appropriate prospective adjustments to the capitation payment 
     to such an entity (based on an actuarially sound estimate of 
     the expected costs of providing the service to such entity's 
     enrollees):  Provided further, That nothing in this section 
     shall be construed to change the Medicare program's coverage 
     for such services and a Medicare Advantage organization 
     described in this section shall be responsible for informing 
     enrollees where to obtain information about all Medicare 
     covered services.
       Sec. 210.  None of the funds made available in this title 
     may be used, in whole or in part, to advocate or promote gun 
     control.
       Sec. 211.  The Secretary shall make available through 
     assignment not more than 60 employees of the Public Health 
     Service to assist in child survival activities and to work in 
     AIDS programs through and with funds provided by the Agency 
     for International Development, the United Nations 
     International Children's Emergency Fund or the World Health 
     Organization.
       Sec. 212.  In order for HHS to carry out international 
     health activities, including HIV/AIDS and other infectious 
     disease, chronic and environmental disease, and other health 
     activities abroad during fiscal year 2018:
       (1) The Secretary may exercise authority equivalent to that 
     available to the Secretary of State in section 2(c) of the 
     State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956. The Secretary 
     shall consult with the Secretary of State and relevant Chief 
     of Mission to ensure that the authority provided in this 
     section is exercised in a manner consistent with section 207 
     of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 and other applicable 
     statutes administered by the Department of State.
       (2) The Secretary is authorized to provide such funds by 
     advance or reimbursement to the Secretary of State as may be 
     necessary to pay the costs of acquisition, lease, alteration, 
     renovation, and management of facilities outside of the 
     United States for the use of HHS. The Department of State 
     shall cooperate fully with the Secretary to ensure that HHS 
     has secure, safe, functional facilities that comply with 
     applicable regulation governing location, setback, and other 
     facilities requirements and serve the purposes established by 
     this Act. The Secretary is authorized, in consultation with 
     the Secretary of State, through grant or cooperative 
     agreement, to make available to public or nonprofit private 
     institutions or agencies in participating foreign countries, 
     funds to acquire, lease, alter, or renovate facilities in 
     those countries as necessary to conduct programs of 
     assistance for international health activities, including 
     activities relating to HIV/AIDS and other infectious 
     diseases, chronic and environmental diseases, and other 
     health activities abroad.
       (3) The Secretary is authorized to provide to personnel 
     appointed or assigned by the Secretary to serve abroad, 
     allowances and benefits similar to those provided under 
     chapter 9 of title I of the Foreign Service Act of 1980, and 
     22 U.S.C. 4081 through 4086 and subject to such regulations 
     prescribed by the Secretary. The Secretary is further 
     authorized to provide locality-based comparability payments 
     (stated as a percentage) up to the amount of the locality-
     based comparability payment (stated as a percentage) that 
     would be payable to such personnel under section 5304 of 
     title 5, United States Code if such personnel's official duty 
     station were in the District of Columbia. Leaves of absence 
     for personnel under this subsection shall be on the same 
     basis as that provided under subchapter I of chapter 63 of 
     title 5, United States Code, or section 903 of the Foreign 
     Service Act of 1980, to individuals serving in the Foreign 
     Service.

                          (transfer of funds)

       Sec. 213.  The Director of the NIH, jointly with the 
     Director of the Office of AIDS Research, may transfer up to 3 
     percent among institutes and centers from the total amounts 
     identified by these two Directors as funding for research 
     pertaining to the human immunodeficiency virus:  Provided, 
     That the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate are notified at least 15 days 
     in advance of any transfer.

                          (transfer of funds)

       Sec. 214.  Of the amounts made available in this Act for 
     NIH, the amount for research related to the human 
     immunodeficiency virus, as jointly determined by the Director 
     of NIH and the Director of the Office of AIDS Research, shall 
     be made available to the ``Office of AIDS Research'' account. 
     The Director of the Office of AIDS Research shall

[[Page H6936]]

     transfer from such account amounts necessary to carry out 
     section 2353(d)(3) of the PHS Act.
       Sec. 215. (a) Authority.--Notwithstanding any other 
     provision of law, the Director of NIH (``Director'') may use 
     funds authorized under section 402(b)(12) of the PHS Act to 
     enter into transactions (other than contracts, cooperative 
     agreements, or grants) to carry out research identified 
     pursuant to or research and activities described in such 
     section 402(b)(12).
       (b) Peer Review.--In entering into transactions under 
     subsection (a), the Director may utilize such peer review 
     procedures (including consultation with appropriate 
     scientific experts) as the Director determines to be 
     appropriate to obtain assessments of scientific and technical 
     merit. Such procedures shall apply to such transactions in 
     lieu of the peer review and advisory council review 
     procedures that would otherwise be required under sections 
     301(a)(3), 405(b)(1)(B), 405(b)(2), 406(a)(3)(A), 492, and 
     494 of the PHS Act.
       Sec. 216.  Not to exceed $45,000,000 of funds appropriated 
     by this Act to the institutes and centers of the National 
     Institutes of Health may be used for alteration, repair, or 
     improvement of facilities, as necessary for the proper and 
     efficient conduct of the activities authorized herein, at not 
     to exceed $3,500,000 per project.

                          (transfer of funds)

       Sec. 217.  Of the amounts made available for NIH, 1 percent 
     of the amount made available for National Research Service 
     Awards (``NRSA'') shall be made available to the 
     Administrator of the Health Resources and Services 
     Administration to make NRSA awards for research in primary 
     medical care to individuals affiliated with entities who have 
     received grants or contracts under sections 736, 739, or 747 
     of the PHS Act, and 1 percent of the amount made available 
     for NRSA shall be made available to the Director of the 
     Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality to make NRSA 
     awards for health service research.
       Sec. 218. (a) The Biomedical Advanced Research and 
     Development Authority (``BARDA'') may enter into a contract, 
     for more than one but no more than 10 program years, for 
     purchase of research services or of security countermeasures, 
     as that term is defined in section 319F-2(c)(1)(B) of the PHS 
     Act (42 U.S.C. 247d-6b(c)(1)(B)), if--
       (1) funds are available and obligated--
       (A) for the full period of the contract or for the first 
     fiscal year in which the contract is in effect; and
       (B) for the estimated costs associated with a necessary 
     termination of the contract; and
       (2) the Secretary determines that a multi-year contract 
     will serve the best interests of the Federal Government by 
     encouraging full and open competition or promoting economy in 
     administration, performance, and operation of BARDA's 
     programs.
       (b) A contract entered into under this section--
       (1) shall include a termination clause as described by 
     subsection (c) of section 3903 of title 41, United States 
     Code; and
       (2) shall be subject to the congressional notice 
     requirement stated in subsection (d) of such section.
       Sec. 219. (a) The Secretary shall establish a publicly 
     accessible Web site to provide information regarding the uses 
     of funds made available under section 4002 of the Patient 
     Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (``ACA'').
       (b) With respect to funds provided under section 4002 of 
     the ACA, the Secretary shall include on the Web site 
     established under subsection (a) at a minimum the following 
     information:
       (1) In the case of each transfer of funds under section 
     4002(c), a statement indicating the program or activity 
     receiving funds, the operating division or office that will 
     administer the funds, and the planned uses of the funds, to 
     be posted not later than the day after the transfer is made.
       (2) Identification (along with a link to the full text) of 
     each funding opportunity announcement, request for proposals, 
     or other announcement or solicitation of proposals for 
     grants, cooperative agreements, or contracts intended to be 
     awarded using such funds, to be posted not later than the day 
     after the announcement or solicitation is issued.
       (3) Identification of each grant, cooperative agreement, or 
     contract with a value of $25,000 or more awarded using such 
     funds, including the purpose of the award and the identity of 
     the recipient, to be posted not later than 5 days after the 
     award is made.
       (4) A report detailing the uses of all funds transferred 
     under section 4002(c) during the fiscal year, to be posted 
     not later than 90 days after the end of the fiscal year.
       (c) With respect to awards made in fiscal years 2013 
     through 2018, the Secretary shall also include on the Web 
     site established under subsection (a), semi-annual reports 
     from each entity awarded a grant, cooperative agreement, or 
     contract from such funds with a value of $25,000 or more, 
     summarizing the activities undertaken and identifying any 
     sub-grants or sub-contracts awarded (including the purpose of 
     the award and the identity of the recipient), to be posted 
     not later than 30 days after the end of each 6-month period.
       (d) In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall--
       (1) present the information required in subsection (b)(1) 
     on a single webpage or on a single database;
       (2) ensure that all information required in this section is 
     directly accessible from the single webpage or database; and
       (3) ensure that all information required in this section is 
     able to be organized by program or State.
       Sec. 220. (a) The Secretary shall publish in the fiscal 
     year 2019 budget justification and on Departmental Web sites 
     information concerning the employment of full-time equivalent 
     Federal employees or contractors for the purposes of 
     implementing, administering, enforcing, or otherwise carrying 
     out the provisions of the ACA, and the amendments made by 
     that Act, in the proposed fiscal year and each fiscal year 
     since the enactment of the ACA.
       (b) With respect to employees or contractors supported by 
     all funds appropriated for purposes of carrying out the ACA 
     (and the amendments made by that Act), the Secretary shall 
     include, at a minimum, the following information:
       (1) For each such fiscal year, the section of such Act 
     under which such funds were appropriated, a statement 
     indicating the program, project, or activity receiving such 
     funds, the Federal operating division or office that 
     administers such program, and the amount of funding received 
     in discretionary or mandatory appropriations.
       (2) For each such fiscal year, the number of full-time 
     equivalent employees or contracted employees assigned to each 
     authorized and funded provision detailed in accordance with 
     paragraph (1).
       (c) In carrying out this section, the Secretary may exclude 
     from the report employees or contractors who--
       (1) are supported through appropriations enacted in laws 
     other than the ACA and work on programs that existed prior to 
     the passage of the ACA;
       (2) spend less than 50 percent of their time on activities 
     funded by or newly authorized in the ACA; or
       (3) work on contracts for which FTE reporting is not a 
     requirement of their contract, such as fixed-price contracts.
       Sec. 221.  The Secretary shall publish, as part of the 
     fiscal year 2019 budget of the President submitted under 
     section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, information 
     that details the uses of all funds used by the Centers for 
     Medicare and Medicaid Services specifically for Health 
     Insurance Exchanges for each fiscal year since the enactment 
     of the ACA and the proposed uses for such funds for fiscal 
     year 2019. Such information shall include, for each such 
     fiscal year, the amount of funds used for each activity 
     specified under the heading ``Health Insurance Exchange 
     Transparency'' in the committee report accompanying this Act.
       Sec. 222. (a) The Secretary shall provide to the Committees 
     on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
     Senate:
       (1) Detailed monthly enrollment figures from the Exchanges 
     established under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care 
     Act of 2010 pertaining to enrollments during the open 
     enrollment period; and
       (2) Notification of any new or competitive grant awards, 
     including supplements, authorized under section 330 of the 
     Public Health Service Act.
       (b) The Committees on Appropriations of the House and 
     Senate must be notified at least 2 business days in advance 
     of any public release of enrollment information or the award 
     of such grants.
       Sec. 223.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     from the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund or the Federal 
     Supplemental Medical Insurance Trust Fund, or transferred 
     from other accounts funded by this Act to the ``Centers for 
     Medicare and Medicaid Services--Program Management'' account, 
     may be used for payments under section 1342(b)(1) of Public 
     Law 111-148 (relating to risk corridors).
       Sec. 224.  The Secretary shall include in the fiscal year 
     2019 budget justification an analysis of how section 2713 of 
     the PHS Act will impact eligibility for discretionary HHS 
     programs.

                          (transfer of funds)

       Sec. 225. (a) Within 45 days of enactment of this Act, the 
     Secretary shall transfer funds appropriated under section 
     4002 of the ACA to the accounts specified, in the amounts 
     specified, and for the activities specified under the heading 
     "Prevention and Public Health Fund" in the committee report 
     accompanying this Act.
       (b) Notwithstanding section 4002(c) of the ACA, the 
     Secretary may not further transfer these amounts.
       (c) Funds transferred for activities authorized under 
     section 2821 of the PHS Act shall be made available without 
     reference to section 2821(b) of such Act.
       Sec. 226.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act may 
     be used to carry out title X of the PHS Act.
       Sec. 227.  Effective during the period beginning on 
     November 1, 2015 and ending January 1, 2020, any provision of 
     law that refers (including through cross-reference to another 
     provision of law) to the current recommendations of the 
     United States Preventive Services Task Force with respect to 
     breast cancer screening, mammography, and prevention shall be 
     administered by the Secretary involved as if--
       (1) such reference to such current recommendations were a 
     reference to the recommendations of such Task Force with 
     respect to breast cancer screening, mammography, and 
     prevention last issued before 2009; and

[[Page H6937]]

       (2) such recommendations last issued before 2009 applied to 
     any screening mammography modality under section 1861(jj) of 
     the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x(jj)).
       Sec. 228.  In making Federal financial assistance, the NIH 
     shall continue to apply the provisions relating to indirect 
     costs in part 75 of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations, 
     including with respect to the approval of deviations from 
     negotiated rates, to the same extent and in the same manner 
     as the NIH applied such provisions in the third quarter of 
     fiscal year 2017. None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
     may be used by the NIH to develop or implement a modified 
     approach to such provisions, or to intentionally or 
     substantially expand the fiscal effect of the approval of 
     such deviations from negotiated rates beyond the proportional 
     effect of such approvals in such quarter.
       Sec. 229.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act may 
     be used to implement, further, enforce, or advance the 
     Navigators program as provided under section 1311(i) of 
     Public Law 111-148 and title I and subtitle B of title II of 
     Public Law 111-152.
       This title may be cited as the ``Department of Health and 
     Human Services Appropriations Act, 2018''.

                               TITLE III

                        DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION

                    Education for the Disadvantaged

       For carrying out title I and subpart 2 of part B of title 
     II of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 
     (referred to in this Act as ``ESEA'') and section 418A of the 
     Higher Education Act of 1965 (referred to in this Act as 
     ``HEA''), $15,953,790,000, of which $5,035,990,000 shall 
     become available on July 1, 2018, and shall remain available 
     through September 30, 2019, and of which $10,841,177,000 
     shall become available on October 1, 2018, and shall remain 
     available through September 30, 2019, for academic year 2018-
     2019:  Provided, That $6,459,401,000 shall be for basic 
     grants under section 1124 of the ESEA:  Provided further, 
     That up to $5,000,000 of these funds shall be available to 
     the Secretary of Education (referred to in this title as 
     ``Secretary'') on October 1, 2017, to obtain annually updated 
     local educational agency-level census poverty data from the 
     Bureau of the Census:  Provided further, That $1,362,301,000 
     shall be for concentration grants under section 1124A of the 
     ESEA:  Provided further, That $3,819,050,000 shall be for 
     targeted grants under section 1125 of the ESEA:  Provided 
     further, That $3,819,050,000 shall be for education finance 
     incentive grants under section 1125A of the ESEA:  Provided 
     further, That $27,000,000 shall be for carrying out subpart 2 
     of part B of title II:  Provided further, That $44,623,000 
     shall be for carrying out section 418A of the HEA.

                               Impact Aid

       For carrying out programs of financial assistance to 
     federally affected schools authorized by title VII of the 
     ESEA, $1,333,603,000, of which $1,194,233,000 shall be for 
     basic support payments under section 7003(b), $48,316,000 
     shall be for payments for children with disabilities under 
     section 7003(d), $17,406,000, to remain available for 
     obligation through September 30, 2019, shall be for 
     construction under section 7007(b), $68,813,000 shall be for 
     Federal property payments under section 7002, and $4,835,000, 
     to remain available until expended, shall be for facilities 
     maintenance under section 7008:  Provided, That for purposes 
     of computing the amount of a payment for an eligible local 
     educational agency under section 7003(a) for school year 
     2017-2018, children enrolled in a school of such agency that 
     would otherwise be eligible for payment under section 
     7003(a)(1)(B) of such Act, but due to the deployment of both 
     parents or legal guardians, or a parent or legal guardian 
     having sole custody of such children, or due to the death of 
     a military parent or legal guardian while on active duty (so 
     long as such children reside on Federal property as described 
     in section 7003(a)(1)(B)), are no longer eligible under such 
     section, shall be considered as eligible students under such 
     section, provided such students remain in average daily 
     attendance at a school in the same local educational agency 
     they attended prior to their change in eligibility status.

                      School Improvement Programs

       For carrying out school improvement activities authorized 
     by part B of title I, subpart 1 of part A of title IV, part B 
     of title IV, part B of title V, and parts B and C of title VI 
     of the ESEA; the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act; 
     section 203 of the Educational Technical Assistance Act of 
     2002; the Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003; 
     and the Civil Rights Act of 1964, $2,261,072,000, of which 
     $2,121,940,000 shall become available on July 1, 2018, and 
     remain available through September 30, 2019, for academic 
     year 2018-2019:  Provided, That $369,100,000 shall be for 
     part B of title I:  Provided further, That $1,000,000,000 
     shall be for part B of title IV:  Provided further, That 
     $33,397,000 shall be for part B of title VI and may be used 
     for construction, renovation, and modernization of any 
     elementary school, secondary school, or structure related to 
     an elementary school or secondary school, run by the 
     Department of Education of the State of Hawaii, that serves a 
     predominantly Native Hawaiian student body:  Provided 
     further, That $32,453,000 shall be for part C of title VI and 
     shall be awarded on a competitive basis, and also may be used 
     for construction:  Provided further, That $50,000,000 shall 
     be available to carry out section 203 of the Educational 
     Technical Assistance Act of 2002 and the Secretary shall make 
     such arrangements as determined to be necessary to ensure 
     that the Bureau of Indian Education has access to services 
     provided under this section:  Provided further, That 
     $16,699,000 shall be available to carry out the Supplemental 
     Education Grants program for the Federated States of 
     Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall Islands:  
     Provided further, That the Secretary may reserve up to 5 
     percent of the amount referred to in the previous proviso to 
     provide technical assistance in the implementation of these 
     grants:  Provided further, That $175,840,000 shall be for 
     part B of title V:  Provided further, That $500,000,000 shall 
     be available for grants under subpart 1 of part A of title 
     IV.

                            Indian Education

       For expenses necessary to carry out, to the extent not 
     otherwise provided, title VI, part A of the ESEA, 
     $164,939,000, of which $57,993,000 shall be for subpart 2 of 
     part A of title VI and $6,565,000 shall be for subpart 3 of 
     part A of title VI.

                       Innovation and Improvement

       For carrying out activities authorized by subparts 1, 3 and 
     4 of part B of title II, and parts C and D and subpart 4 of 
     part F of title IV of the ESEA, $747,904,000.

                 Safe Schools and Citizenship Education

       For carrying out activities authorized by subparts 2 and 3 
     of part F of title IV of the ESEA, $138,000,000:  Provided, 
     That $68,000,000 shall be available for section 4631, of 
     which up to $5,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
     shall be for the Project School Emergency Response to 
     Violence (``Project SERV'') program:  Provided further, That 
     $10,000,000 shall be available for section 4625:  Provided 
     further, That $60,000,000 shall be available through December 
     31, 2018, for section 4624:  Provided further, That section 
     4623(b) of the ESEA shall apply to funds appropriated for 
     Promise Neighborhoods under this heading in prior 
     appropriations acts.

                      English Language Acquisition

       For carrying out part A of title III of the ESEA, 
     $737,400,000, which shall become available on July 1, 2018, 
     and shall remain available through September 30, 2019, except 
     that 6.5 percent of such amount shall be available on October 
     1, 2017, and shall remain available through September 30, 
     2019, to carry out activities under section 3111(c)(1)(C).

                           Special Education

       For carrying out the Individuals with Disabilities 
     Education Act (IDEA) $13,251,691,000, of which $1,864,818,000 
     shall become available on July 1, 2018, and shall remain 
     available through September 30, 2019, and of which 
     $11,164,824,000 shall become available on October 1, 2018, 
     and shall remain available through September 30, 2019, for 
     academic year 2018-2019:  Provided, That the amount for 
     section 611(b)(2) of the IDEA shall be equal to the lesser of 
     the amount available for that activity during fiscal year 
     2016, increased by the amount of inflation as specified in 
     section 619(d)(2)(B) of the IDEA, or the percent change in 
     the funds appropriated under section 611(i) of the IDEA, but 
     not less than the amount for that activity during fiscal year 
     2016:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall, without 
     regard to section 611(d) of the IDEA, distribute to all other 
     States (as that term is defined in section 611(g)(2)), 
     subject to the third proviso, any amount by which a State's 
     allocation under section 611, from funds appropriated under 
     this heading, is reduced under section 612(a)(18)(B), 
     according to the following: 85 percent on the basis of the 
     States' relative populations of children aged 3 through 21 
     who are of the same age as children with disabilities for 
     whom the State ensures the availability of a free appropriate 
     public education under this part, and 15 percent to States on 
     the basis of the States' relative populations of those 
     children who are living in poverty:  Provided further, That 
     the Secretary may not distribute any funds under the previous 
     proviso to any State whose reduction in allocation from funds 
     appropriated under this heading made funds available for such 
     a distribution:  Provided further, That the States shall 
     allocate such funds distributed under the second proviso to 
     local educational agencies in accordance with section 611(f): 
      Provided further, That the amount by which a State's 
     allocation under section 611(d) of the IDEA is reduced under 
     section 612(a)(18)(B) and the amounts distributed to States 
     under the previous provisos in fiscal year 2012 or any 
     subsequent year shall not be considered in calculating the 
     awards under section 611(d) for fiscal year 2013 or for any 
     subsequent fiscal years:  Provided further, That, 
     notwithstanding the provision in section 612(a)(18)(B) 
     regarding the fiscal year in which a State's allocation under 
     section 611(d) is reduced for failure to comply with the 
     requirement of section 612(a)(18)(A), the Secretary may apply 
     the reduction specified in section 612(a)(18)(B) over a 
     period of consecutive fiscal years, not to exceed five, until 
     the entire reduction is applied:  Provided further, That the 
     Secretary may, in any fiscal year in which a State's 
     allocation under section 611 is reduced in accordance with 
     section 612(a)(18)(B), reduce the amount a State may reserve 
     under section 611(e)(1) by an amount that bears the same 
     relation to the maximum amount described in that paragraph as 
     the reduction under section 612(a)(18)(B) bears to the total 
     allocation the State would have received in that fiscal year 
     under section 611(d) in the absence of the reduction:  
     Provided further, That the Secretary shall either reduce the 
     allocation of funds

[[Page H6938]]

     under section 611 for any fiscal year following the fiscal 
     year for which the State fails to comply with the requirement 
     of section 612(a)(18)(A) as authorized by section 
     612(a)(18)(B), or seek to recover funds under section 452 of 
     the General Education Provisions Act (20 U.S.C. 1234a):  
     Provided further, That the funds reserved under 611(c) of the 
     IDEA may be used to provide technical assistance to States to 
     improve the capacity of the States to meet the data 
     collection requirements of sections 616 and 618 and to 
     administer and carry out other services and activities to 
     improve data collection, coordination, quality, and use under 
     parts B and C of the IDEA:  Provided further, That the 
     Secretary may use funds made available for the State 
     Personnel Development Grants program under part D, subpart 1 
     of IDEA to evaluate program performance under such subpart.

                        Rehabilitation Services

       For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, the 
     Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and the Helen Keller National 
     Center Act, $3,562,582,000, of which $3,452,931,000 shall be 
     for grants for vocational rehabilitation services under title 
     I of the Rehabilitation Act:  Provided, That the Secretary 
     may use amounts provided in this Act that remain available 
     subsequent to the reallotment of funds to States pursuant to 
     section 110(b) of the Rehabilitation Act for innovative 
     activities aimed at improving the outcomes of individuals 
     with disabilities as defined in section 7(20)(B) of the 
     Rehabilitation Act, including activities aimed at improving 
     the education and post-school outcomes of children receiving 
     Supplemental Security Income (``SSI'') and their families 
     that may result in long-term improvement in the SSI child 
     recipient's economic status and self-sufficiency:  Provided 
     further, That States may award subgrants for a portion of the 
     funds to other public and private, nonprofit entities:  
     Provided further, That any funds made available subsequent to 
     reallotment for innovative activities aimed at improving the 
     outcomes of individuals with disabilities shall remain 
     available until September 30, 2019.

           Special Institutions for Persons With Disabilities

                 american printing house for the blind

       For carrying out the Act to promote the Education of the 
     Blind of March 3, 1879, $26,431,000.

               national technical institute for the deaf

       For the National Technical Institute for the Deaf under 
     titles I and II of the Education of the Deaf Act of 1986, 
     $70,016,000:  Provided, That from the total amount available, 
     the Institute may at its discretion use funds for the 
     endowment program as authorized under section 207 of such 
     Act.

                          gallaudet university

       For the Kendall Demonstration Elementary School, the Model 
     Secondary School for the Deaf, and the partial support of 
     Gallaudet University under titles I and II of the Education 
     of the Deaf Act of 1986, $128,000,000:  Provided, That from 
     the total amount available, the University may at its 
     discretion use funds for the endowment program as authorized 
     under section 207 of such Act.

                 Career, Technical, and Adult Education

       For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, the 
     Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 
     and the Adult Education and Family Literacy Act (``AEFLA''), 
     $1,720,686,000, of which $929,686,000 shall become available 
     on July 1, 2018, and shall remain available through September 
     30, 2019, and of which $791,000,000 shall become available on 
     October 1, 2018, and shall remain available through September 
     30, 2019:  Provided, That of the amounts made available for 
     AEFLA, $13,712,000 shall be for national leadership 
     activities under section 242.

                      Student Financial Assistance

       For carrying out subparts 1, 3, and 10 of part A, and part 
     C of title IV of the HEA, $24,198,210,000, which shall remain 
     available through September 30, 2019.
       The maximum Pell Grant for which a student shall be 
     eligible during award year 2018-2019 shall be $4,860.

                       Student Aid Administration

       For Federal administrative expenses to carry out part D of 
     title I, and subparts 1, 3, 9, and 10 of part A, and parts B, 
     C, D, and E of title IV of the HEA, and subpart 1 of part A 
     of title VII of the Public Health Service Act, 
     $1,697,711,000, to remain available through September 30, 
     2019.

                            Higher Education

       For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, 
     titles III, IV, V, VI, and VII of the HEA, and section 117 of 
     the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 
     2006, $2,038,126,000:  Provided, That notwithstanding any 
     other provision of law, funds made available in this Act to 
     carry out title VI of the HEA may be used to support visits 
     and study in foreign countries by individuals who are 
     participating in advanced foreign language training and 
     international studies in areas that are vital to United 
     States national security and who plan to apply their language 
     skills and knowledge of these countries in the fields of 
     government, the professions, or international development:  
     Provided further, That of the funds referred to in the 
     preceding proviso up to 1 percent may be used for program 
     evaluation, national outreach, and information dissemination 
     activities:  Provided further, That up to 1.5 percent of the 
     funds made available under chapter 2 of subpart 2 of part A 
     of title IV of the HEA may be used for evaluation.

                           Howard University

       For partial support of Howard University, $221,821,000, of 
     which not less than $3,405,000 shall be for a matching 
     endowment grant pursuant to the Howard University Endowment 
     Act and shall remain available until expended.

         College Housing and Academic Facilities Loans Program

       For Federal administrative expenses to carry out activities 
     related to existing facility loans pursuant to section 121 of 
     the HEA, $434,000.

  Historically Black College and University Capital Financing Program 
                                Account

       For the cost of guaranteed loans, $20,112,000, as 
     authorized pursuant to part D of title III of the HEA, which 
     shall remain available through September 30, 2019:  Provided, 
     That such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, 
     shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
     Budget Act of 1974:  Provided further, That these funds are 
     available to subsidize total loan principal, any part of 
     which is to be guaranteed, not to exceed $313,513,000:  
     Provided further, That these funds may be used to support 
     loans to public and private Historically Black Colleges and 
     Universities without regard to the limitations within section 
     344(a) of the HEA.
       In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the 
     Historically Black College and University Capital Financing 
     Program entered into pursuant to part D of title III of the 
     HEA, $333,000.

                    Institute of Education Sciences

       For carrying out activities authorized by the Education 
     Sciences Reform Act of 2002, the National Assessment of 
     Educational Progress Authorization Act, section 208 of the 
     Educational Technical Assistance Act of 2002, and section 664 
     of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, 
     $605,267,000, which shall remain available through September 
     30, 2019:  Provided, That funds available to carry out 
     section 208 of the Educational Technical Assistance Act may 
     be used to link Statewide elementary and secondary data 
     systems with early childhood, postsecondary, and workforce 
     data systems, or to further develop such systems:  Provided 
     further, That up to $6,000,000 of the funds available to 
     carry out section 208 of the Educational Technical Assistance 
     Act may be used for awards to public or private organizations 
     or agencies to support activities to improve data 
     coordination, quality, and use at the local, State, and 
     national levels.

                        Departmental Management

                         program administration

       For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, the 
     Department of Education Organization Act, including rental of 
     conference rooms in the District of Columbia and hire of 
     three passenger motor vehicles, $431,000,000.

                        office for civil rights

       For expenses necessary for the Office for Civil Rights, as 
     authorized by section 203 of the Department of Education 
     Organization Act, $108,500,000.

                      office of inspector general

       For expenses necessary for the Office of Inspector General, 
     as authorized by section 212 of the Department of Education 
     Organization Act, $59,256,000.

                           General Provisions

       Sec. 301.  No funds appropriated in this Act may be used 
     for the transportation of students or teachers (or for the 
     purchase of equipment for such transportation) in order to 
     overcome racial imbalance in any school or school system, or 
     for the transportation of students or teachers (or for the 
     purchase of equipment for such transportation) in order to 
     carry out a plan of racial desegregation of any school or 
     school system.
       Sec. 302.  None of the funds contained in this Act shall be 
     used to require, directly or indirectly, the transportation 
     of any student to a school other than the school which is 
     nearest the student's home, except for a student requiring 
     special education, to the school offering such special 
     education, in order to comply with title VI of the Civil 
     Rights Act of 1964. For the purpose of this section an 
     indirect requirement of transportation of students includes 
     the transportation of students to carry out a plan involving 
     the reorganization of the grade structure of schools, the 
     pairing of schools, or the clustering of schools, or any 
     combination of grade restructuring, pairing, or clustering. 
     The prohibition described in this section does not include 
     the establishment of magnet schools.
       Sec. 303.  No funds appropriated in this Act may be used to 
     prevent the implementation of programs of voluntary prayer 
     and meditation in the public schools.

                          (transfer of funds)

       Sec. 304.  Not to exceed 1 percent of any discretionary 
     funds (pursuant to the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985) which are appropriated for the 
     Department of Education in this Act may be transferred 
     between appropriations, but no such appropriation shall be 
     increased by more than 3 percent by any such transfer:  
     Provided, That the transfer authority granted by this section 
     shall not be used to create any new program or to fund any 
     project or activity for which no funds are provided in

[[Page H6939]]

     this Act:  Provided further, That the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
     are notified at least 15 days in advance of any transfer.
       Sec. 305.  Section 105(f)(1)(B)(ix) of the Compact of Free 
     Association Amendments Act of 2003 (48 U.S.C. 
     1921d(f)(1)(B)(ix)) shall be applied by substituting ``2018'' 
     for ``2017''.
       Sec. 306.  Funds appropriated in this Act and consolidated 
     for evaluation purposes under section 8601(c) of the ESEA 
     shall be available from July 1, 2018, through September 30, 
     2019.
       Sec. 307. (a) An institution of higher education that 
     maintains an endowment fund supported with funds appropriated 
     for title III or V of the HEA for fiscal year 2018 may use 
     the income from that fund to award scholarships to students, 
     subject to the limitation in section 331(c)(3)(B)(i) of the 
     HEA. The use of such income for such purposes, prior to the 
     enactment of this Act, shall be considered to have been an 
     allowable use of that income, subject to that limitation.
       (b) Subsection (a) shall be in effect until titles III and 
     V of the HEA are reauthorized.
       Sec. 308.  Section 114(f) of the HEA (20 U.S.C. 1011c(f)) 
     is amended by striking ``2017'' and inserting ``2018''.
       Sec. 309.  Section 458(a) of the HEA (20 U.S.C. 1087h(a)) 
     is amended in paragraph (4) by striking ``2017'' and 
     inserting ``2018''.

                              (rescission)

       Sec. 310.  Of the unobligated balances available from 
     Public Law 114-113 under the heading ``Student Financial 
     Assistance'' for carrying out subpart 1 of part A of title IV 
     of the HEA, $3,270,844,000 are hereby rescinded.
       This title may be cited as the ``Department of Education 
     Appropriations Act, 2018''.

                                TITLE IV

                            RELATED AGENCIES

 Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled

                         salaries and expenses

       For expenses necessary for the Committee for Purchase From 
     People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled established under 
     section 8502 of title 41, United States Code, $8,000,000:  
     Provided, That in order to authorize any central nonprofit 
     agency designated pursuant to section 8503(c) of title 41, 
     United States Code, to perform contract requirements of the 
     Committee as prescribed under section 51-3.2 of title 41, 
     Code of Federal Regulations, the Committee shall enter into a 
     written agreement with any such central nonprofit agency:  
     Provided further, That such agreement shall contain such 
     auditing, oversight, and reporting provisions as necessary to 
     implement chapter 85 of title 41, United States Code:  
     Provided further, That such agreement shall include the 
     elements listed under this heading in the explanatory 
     statement accompanying Public Law 114-113:  Provided further, 
     That any such central nonprofit agency may not charge a fee 
     under section 51-3.5 of title 41, Code of Federal 
     Regulations, unless such fee is under the terms of the 
     written agreement between the Committee and any such central 
     nonprofit agency:  Provided further, That no less than 
     $1,250,000 shall be available for the Office of Inspector 
     General to remain available through September 30, 2019.

             Corporation for National and Community Service

                           operating expenses

       For necessary expenses for the Corporation for National and 
     Community Service (referred to in this title as ``CNCS'') to 
     carry out the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 
     (referred to in this title as ``1973 Act'') and the National 
     and Community Service Act of 1990 (referred to in this title 
     as ``1990 Act''), $736,029,000, notwithstanding sections 
     198B(b)(3), 198S(g), 501(a)(4)(C), and 501(a)(4)(F) of the 
     1990 Act:  Provided, That of the amounts provided under this 
     heading: (1) up to 1 percent of program grant funds may be 
     used to defray the costs of conducting grant application 
     reviews, including the use of outside peer reviewers and 
     electronic management of the grants cycle; (2) $16,538,000 
     shall be available to provide assistance to State commissions 
     on national and community service, under section 126(a) of 
     the 1990 Act and notwithstanding section 501(a)(5)(B) of the 
     1990 Act; (3) $30,000,000 shall be available to carry out 
     subtitle E of the 1990 Act; and (4) $3,800,000 shall be 
     available for expenses authorized under section 501(a)(4)(F) 
     of the 1990 Act, which, notwithstanding the provisions of 
     section 198P shall be awarded by CNCS on a competitive basis: 
      Provided further, That for the purposes of carrying out the 
     1990 Act, satisfying the requirements in section 122(c)(1)(D) 
     may include a determination of need by the local community.

                 payment to the national service trust

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For payment to the National Service Trust established under 
     subtitle D of title I of the 1990 Act, $206,842,000, to 
     remain available until expended:  Provided, That CNCS may 
     transfer additional funds from the amount provided within 
     ``Operating Expenses'' allocated to grants under subtitle C 
     of title I of the 1990 Act to the National Service Trust upon 
     determination that such transfer is necessary to support the 
     activities of national service participants and after notice 
     is transmitted to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
     House of Representatives and the Senate:  Provided further, 
     That amounts appropriated for or transferred to the National 
     Service Trust may be invested under section 145(b) of the 
     1990 Act without regard to the requirement to apportion funds 
     under 31 U.S.C. 1513(b).

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of administration as provided under 
     section 501(a)(5) of the 1990 Act and under section 504(a) of 
     the 1973 Act, including payment of salaries, authorized 
     travel, hire of passenger motor vehicles, the rental of 
     conference rooms in the District of Columbia, the employment 
     of experts and consultants authorized under 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
     and not to exceed $2,500 for official reception and 
     representation expenses, $81,737,000.

                      office of inspector general

       For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
     in carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
     $5,750,000.

                       administrative provisions

       Sec. 401.  CNCS shall make any significant changes to 
     program requirements, service delivery or policy only through 
     public notice and comment rulemaking. For fiscal year 2018, 
     during any grant selection process, an officer or employee of 
     CNCS shall not knowingly disclose any covered grant selection 
     information regarding such selection, directly or indirectly, 
     to any person other than an officer or employee of CNCS that 
     is authorized by CNCS to receive such information.
       Sec. 402.  AmeriCorps programs receiving grants under the 
     National Service Trust program shall meet an overall minimum 
     share requirement of 24 percent for the first 3 years that 
     they receive AmeriCorps funding, and thereafter shall meet 
     the overall minimum share requirement as provided in section 
     2521.60 of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations, without 
     regard to the operating costs match requirement in section 
     121(e) or the member support Federal share limitations in 
     section 140 of the 1990 Act, and subject to partial waiver 
     consistent with section 2521.70 of title 45, Code of Federal 
     Regulations.
       Sec. 403.  Donations made to CNCS under section 196 of the 
     1990 Act for the purposes of financing programs and 
     operations under titles I and II of the 1973 Act or subtitle 
     B, C, D, or E of title I of the 1990 Act shall be used to 
     supplement and not supplant current programs and operations.
       Sec. 404.  In addition to the requirements in section 
     146(a) of the 1990 Act, use of an educational award for the 
     purpose described in section 148(a)(4) shall be limited to 
     individuals who are veterans as defined under section 101 of 
     the Act.
       Sec. 405.  For the purpose of carrying out section 189D of 
     the 1990 Act--
       (1) entities described in paragraph (a) of such section 
     shall be considered ``qualified entities'' under section 3 of 
     the National Child Protection Act of 1993 (``NCPA'');
       (2) individuals described in such section shall be 
     considered ``volunteers'' under section 3 of NCPA; and
       (3) State Commissions on National and Community Service 
     established pursuant to section 178 of the 1990 Act, are 
     authorized to receive criminal history record information, 
     consistent with Public Law 92-544.

                  Corporation for Public Broadcasting

       For payment to the Corporation for Public Broadcasting 
     (``CPB''), as authorized by the Communications Act of 1934, 
     an amount which shall be available within limitations 
     specified by that Act, for the fiscal year 2020, 
     $445,000,000:  Provided, That none of the funds made 
     available to CPB by this Act shall be used to pay for 
     receptions, parties, or similar forms of entertainment for 
     Government officials or employees:  Provided further, That 
     none of the funds made available to CPB by this Act shall be 
     available or used to aid or support any program or activity 
     from which any person is excluded, or is denied benefits, or 
     is discriminated against, on the basis of race, color, 
     national origin, religion, or sex:  Provided further, That 
     none of the funds made available to CPB by this Act shall be 
     used to apply any political test or qualification in 
     selecting, appointing, promoting, or taking any other 
     personnel action with respect to officers, agents, and 
     employees of CPB:  Provided further, That none of the funds 
     made available to CPB by this Act shall be used to support 
     the Television Future Fund or any similar purpose.

               Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service

                         salaries and expenses

       For expenses necessary for the Federal Mediation and 
     Conciliation Service (``Service'') to carry out the functions 
     vested in it by the Labor-Management Relations Act, 1947, 
     including hire of passenger motor vehicles; for expenses 
     necessary for the Labor-Management Cooperation Act of 1978; 
     and for expenses necessary for the Service to carry out the 
     functions vested in it by the Civil Service Reform Act, 
     $46,650,000, including up to $900,000 to remain available 
     through September 30, 2019, for activities authorized by the 
     Labor-Management Cooperation Act of 1978:  Provided, That 
     notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, fees charged, up to full-cost 
     recovery, for special training activities and other conflict 
     resolution services and technical assistance, including those 
     provided to foreign governments and international 
     organizations, and for arbitration services shall be credited 
     to and merged with this account, and shall remain available 
     until expended:  Provided further, That fees for arbitration 
     services shall be available only for education, training, and 
     professional development of the agency workforce:  Provided 
     further, That the Director of the Service is authorized to 
     accept and use on behalf of the

[[Page H6940]]

     United States gifts of services and real, personal, or other 
     property in the aid of any projects or functions within the 
     Director's jurisdiction.

            Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission

                         salaries and expenses

       For expenses necessary for the Federal Mine Safety and 
     Health Review Commission, $17,134,000.

                Institute of Museum and Library Services

    office of museum and library services: grants and administration

       For carrying out the Museum and Library Services Act of 
     1996 and the National Museum of African American History and 
     Culture Act, $231,000,000.

            Medicaid and Chip Payment and Access Commission

                         salaries and expenses

       For expenses necessary to carry out section 1900 of the 
     Social Security Act, $7,500,000.

                  Medicare Payment Advisory Commission

                         salaries and expenses

       For expenses necessary to carry out section 1805 of the 
     Social Security Act, $12,175,000, to be transferred to this 
     appropriation from the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund 
     and the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund.

                     National Council on Disability

                         salaries and expenses

       For expenses necessary for the National Council on 
     Disability as authorized by title IV of the Rehabilitation 
     Act of 1973, $3,200,000.

                     National Labor Relations Board

                         salaries and expenses

       For expenses necessary for the National Labor Relations 
     Board to carry out the functions vested in it by the Labor-
     Management Relations Act, 1947, and other laws, $249,000,000: 
      Provided, That no part of this appropriation shall be 
     available to organize or assist in organizing agricultural 
     laborers or used in connection with investigations, hearings, 
     directives, or orders concerning bargaining units composed of 
     agricultural laborers as referred to in section 2(3) of the 
     Act of July 5, 1935, and as amended by the Labor-Management 
     Relations Act, 1947, and as defined in section 3(f) of the 
     Act of June 25, 1938, and including in said definition 
     employees engaged in the maintenance and operation of 
     ditches, canals, reservoirs, and waterways when maintained or 
     operated on a mutual, nonprofit basis and at least 95 percent 
     of the water stored or supplied thereby is used for farming 
     purposes.

                       administrative provisions

       Sec. 406.  None of the funds provided by this Act or 
     previous Acts making appropriations for the National Labor 
     Relations Board may be used to issue any new administrative 
     directive or regulation that would provide employees any 
     means of voting through any electronic means in an election 
     to determine a representative for the purposes of collective 
     bargaining.
       Sec. 407.  (a) None of the funds made available by this Act 
     may be used to enforce the National Labor Relations Act (29 
     U.S.C. 152) against any Indian Tribe, including any 
     enterprise or institution owned and operated by an Indian 
     Tribe and located on its Indian lands.
       (b) For purposes of this section--
       (1) the term ``Indian Tribe'' means any Indian Tribe, band, 
     nation, pueblo, Native Alaskan group, or other organized 
     group or community which is recognized as eligible for the 
     special programs and services provided by the United States 
     to Indians because of their status as Indians;
       (2) the term ``Indian'' means any individual who is a 
     member of an Indian Tribe; and
       (3) the term ``Indian lands' '' means--
       (A) all lands within the limits of any Indian reservation;
       (B) any lands title to which is either held in trust by the 
     United States for the benefit of any Indian Tribe or 
     individual or held by any Indian Tribe or individual subject 
     to restriction by the United States against alienation; and
       (C) any lands in the State of Oklahoma that are within the 
     boundaries of a former reservation (as defined by the 
     Secretary of the Interior) of a federally recognized Indian 
     Tribe.
       Sec. 408.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to issue, enforce, or litigate any administrative 
     directive, regulation, representation issue, or unfair labor 
     practice proceeding, or any other administrative complaint, 
     charge, claim, or proceeding based on the standard for 
     determining whether entities are ``joint employers'' set 
     forth by the National Labor Relations Board in Browning-
     Ferris Industries of California, Inc., 362 NLRB No. 186 
     (August 27, 2015).
       Sec. 409.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to--
       (1) implement, create, apply, or enforce through 
     prosecution, adjudication, rulemaking, or the issuing of any 
     interpretation, opinion, certification, decision, or policy, 
     any standard for initial bargaining unit determinations that 
     conflicts with the standard articulated in the majority 
     opinion in Wheeling Island Gaming Inc. and United Food and 
     Commercial Workers International Union, Local 23, 355 NLRB 
     127 (August 27, 2010) (including the majority opinion in 
     footnote 2), except for unit determinations governed by 
     section 103.30 of title 34, Code of Federal Regulations, for 
     employers covered by such section; or
       (2) implement, create, apply, or enforce through 
     prosecution, adjudication, rulemaking, or the issuing of any 
     interpretation, opinion, certification, decision, or policy, 
     any standard for initial bargaining unit determinations that 
     utilize the overwhelming community of interest test except in 
     accretion cases.

                        National Mediation Board

                         salaries and expenses

       For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the 
     Railway Labor Act, including emergency boards appointed by 
     the President, $13,500,000.

            Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission

                         salaries and expenses

       For expenses necessary for the Occupational Safety and 
     Health Review Commission, $12,875,000.

                       Railroad Retirement Board

                     dual benefits payments account

       For payment to the Dual Benefits Payments Account, 
     authorized under section 15(d) of the Railroad Retirement Act 
     of 1974, $22,000,000, which shall include amounts becoming 
     available in fiscal year 2018 pursuant to section 
     224(c)(1)(B) of Public Law 98-76; and in addition, an amount, 
     not to exceed 2 percent of the amount provided herein, shall 
     be available proportional to the amount by which the product 
     of recipients and the average benefit received exceeds the 
     amount available for payment of vested dual benefits:  
     Provided, That the total amount provided herein shall be 
     credited in 12 approximately equal amounts on the first day 
     of each month in the fiscal year.

          federal payments to the railroad retirement accounts

       For payment to the accounts established in the Treasury for 
     the payment of benefits under the Railroad Retirement Act for 
     interest earned on unnegotiated checks, $150,000, to remain 
     available through September 30, 2019, which shall be the 
     maximum amount available for payment pursuant to section 417 
     of Public Law 98-76.

                      limitation on administration

       For necessary expenses for the Railroad Retirement Board 
     (``Board'') for administration of the Railroad Retirement Act 
     and the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act, $113,500,000, to 
     be derived in such amounts as determined by the Board from 
     the railroad retirement accounts and from moneys credited to 
     the railroad unemployment insurance administration fund:  
     Provided, That notwithstanding section 7(b)(9) of the 
     Railroad Retirement Act this limitation may be used to hire 
     attorneys only through the excepted service:  Provided 
     further, That the previous proviso shall not change the 
     status under Federal employment laws of any attorney hired by 
     the Railroad Retirement Board prior to January 1, 2013.

             limitation on the office of inspector general

       For expenses necessary for the Office of Inspector General 
     for audit, investigatory and review activities, as authorized 
     by the Inspector General Act of 1978, not more than 
     $10,000,000, to be derived from the railroad retirement 
     accounts and railroad unemployment insurance account.

                     Social Security Administration

                payments to social security trust funds

       For payment to the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance 
     Trust Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund, 
     as provided under sections 201(m) and 1131(b)(2) of the 
     Social Security Act, $11,400,000.

                  supplemental security income program

       For carrying out titles XI and XVI of the Social Security 
     Act, section 401 of Public Law 92-603, section 212 of Public 
     Law 93-66, as amended, and section 405 of Public Law 95-216, 
     including payment to the Social Security trust funds for 
     administrative expenses incurred pursuant to section 
     201(g)(1) of the Social Security Act, $38,591,635,000, to 
     remain available until expended:  Provided, That any portion 
     of the funds provided to a State in the current fiscal year 
     and not obligated by the State during that year shall be 
     returned to the Treasury:  Provided further, That not more 
     than $101,000,000 shall be available for research and 
     demonstrations under sections 1110, 1115, and 1144 of the 
     Social Security Act, and remain available through September 
     30, 2020.
       For making, after June 15 of the current fiscal year, 
     benefit payments to individuals under title XVI of the Social 
     Security Act, for unanticipated costs incurred for the 
     current fiscal year, such sums as may be necessary.
       For making benefit payments under title XVI of the Social 
     Security Act for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, 
     $19,500,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                 limitation on administrative expenses

       For necessary expenses, including the hire of two passenger 
     motor vehicles, and not to exceed $20,000 for official 
     reception and representation expenses, not more than 
     $12,273,945,000 may be expended, as authorized by section 
     201(g)(1) of the Social Security Act, from any one or all of 
     the trust funds referred to in such section:  Provided, That 
     not less than $2,300,000 shall be for the Social Security 
     Advisory Board:  Provided further, That unobligated balances 
     of funds

[[Page H6941]]

     provided under this paragraph at the end of fiscal year 2018 
     not needed for fiscal year 2018 shall remain available until 
     expended to invest in the Social Security Administration 
     information technology and telecommunications hardware and 
     software infrastructure, including related equipment and non-
     payroll administrative expenses associated solely with this 
     information technology and telecommunications infrastructure: 
      Provided further, That the Commissioner of Social Security 
     shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate prior to making unobligated 
     balances available under the authority in the previous 
     proviso:  Provided further, That reimbursement to the trust 
     funds under this heading for expenditures for official time 
     for employees of the Social Security Administration pursuant 
     to 5 U.S.C. 7131, and for facilities or support services for 
     labor organizations pursuant to policies, regulations, or 
     procedures referred to in section 7135(b) of such title shall 
     be made by the Secretary of the Treasury, with interest, from 
     amounts in the general fund not otherwise appropriated, as 
     soon as possible after such expenditures are made.
       Of the total amount made available under this heading, not 
     more than $1,735,000,000, to remain available through March 
     31, 2019, is for the costs associated with continuing 
     disability reviews under titles II and XVI of the Social 
     Security Act, including work-related continuing disability 
     reviews to determine whether earnings derived from services 
     demonstrate an individual's ability to engage in substantial 
     gainful activity, for the cost associated with conducting 
     redeterminations of eligibility under title XVI of the Social 
     Security Act, for the cost of co-operative disability 
     investigation units, and for the cost associated with the 
     prosecution of fraud in the programs and operations of the 
     Social Security Administration by Special Assistant United 
     States Attorneys:  Provided, That, of such amount, 
     $273,000,000 is provided to meet the terms of section 
     251(b)(2)(B)(ii)(III) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, and $1,462,000,000 
     is additional new budget authority specified for purposes of 
     section 251(b)(2)(B) of such Act:  Provided further, That the 
     Commissioner shall provide to the Congress (at the conclusion 
     of the fiscal year) a report on the obligation and 
     expenditure of these funds, similar to the reports that were 
     required by section 103(d)(2) of Public Law 104-121 for 
     fiscal years 1996 through 2002.
       In addition, $118,000,000 to be derived from administration 
     fees in excess of $5.00 per supplementary payment collected 
     pursuant to section 1616(d) of the Social Security Act or 
     section 212(b)(3) of Public Law 93-66, which shall remain 
     available until expended. To the extent that the amounts 
     collected pursuant to such sections in fiscal year 2018 
     exceed $118,000,000, the amounts shall be available in fiscal 
     year 2019 only to the extent provided in advance in 
     appropriations Acts.
       In addition, up to $1,000,000 to be derived from fees 
     collected pursuant to section 303(c) of the Social Security 
     Protection Act, which shall remain available until expended.

                      office of inspector general

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For expenses necessary for the Office of Inspector General 
     in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act 
     of 1978, $30,000,000, together with not to exceed 
     $75,500,000, to be transferred and expended as authorized by 
     section 201(g)(1) of the Social Security Act from the Federal 
     Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal 
     Disability Insurance Trust Fund.
       In addition, an amount not to exceed 3 percent of the total 
     provided in this appropriation may be transferred from the 
     ``Limitation on Administrative Expenses'', Social Security 
     Administration, to be merged with this account, to be 
     available for the time and purposes for which this account is 
     available:  Provided, That notice of such transfers shall be 
     transmitted promptly to the Committees on Appropriations of 
     the House of Representatives and the Senate at least 15 days 
     in advance of any transfer.

                                TITLE V

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                          (transfer of funds)

       Sec. 501.  The Secretaries of Labor, Health and Human 
     Services, and Education are authorized to transfer unexpended 
     balances of prior appropriations to accounts corresponding to 
     current appropriations provided in this Act. Such transferred 
     balances shall be used for the same purpose, and for the same 
     periods of time, for which they were originally appropriated.
       Sec. 502.  No part of any appropriation contained in this 
     Act shall remain available for obligation beyond the current 
     fiscal year unless expressly so provided herein.
       Sec. 503. (a) No part of any appropriation contained in 
     this Act or transferred pursuant to section 4002 of Public 
     Law 111-148 shall be used, other than for normal and 
     recognized executive-legislative relationships, for publicity 
     or propaganda purposes, for the preparation, distribution, or 
     use of any kit, pamphlet, booklet, publication, electronic 
     communication, radio, television, or video presentation 
     designed to support or defeat the enactment of legislation 
     before the Congress or any State or local legislature or 
     legislative body, except in presentation to the Congress or 
     any State or local legislature itself, or designed to support 
     or defeat any proposed or pending regulation, administrative 
     action, or order issued by the executive branch of any State 
     or local government, except in presentation to the executive 
     branch of any State or local government itself.
       (b) No part of any appropriation contained in this Act or 
     transferred pursuant to section 4002 of Public Law 111-148 
     shall be used to pay the salary or expenses of any grant or 
     contract recipient, or agent acting for such recipient, 
     related to any activity designed to influence the enactment 
     of legislation, appropriations, regulation, administrative 
     action, or Executive order proposed or pending before the 
     Congress or any State government, State legislature or local 
     legislature or legislative body, other than for normal and 
     recognized executive-legislative relationships or 
     participation by an agency or officer of a State, local or 
     tribal government in policymaking and administrative 
     processes within the executive branch of that government.
       (c) The prohibitions in subsections (a) and (b) shall 
     include any activity to advocate or promote any proposed, 
     pending or future Federal, State or local tax increase, or 
     any proposed, pending, or future requirement or restriction 
     on any legal consumer product, including its sale or 
     marketing, including but not limited to the advocacy or 
     promotion of gun control.
       Sec. 504.  The Secretaries of Labor and Education are 
     authorized to make available not to exceed $28,000 and 
     $20,000, respectively, from funds available for salaries and 
     expenses under titles I and III, respectively, for official 
     reception and representation expenses; the Director of the 
     Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service is authorized to 
     make available for official reception and representation 
     expenses not to exceed $5,000 from the funds available for 
     ``Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, Salaries and 
     Expenses''; and the Chairman of the National Mediation Board 
     is authorized to make available for official reception and 
     representation expenses not to exceed $5,000 from funds 
     available for ``National Mediation Board, Salaries and 
     Expenses''.
       Sec. 505.  When issuing statements, press releases, 
     requests for proposals, bid solicitations and other documents 
     describing projects or programs funded in whole or in part 
     with Federal money, all grantees receiving Federal funds 
     included in this Act, including but not limited to State and 
     local governments and recipients of Federal research grants, 
     shall clearly state--
       (1) the percentage of the total costs of the program or 
     project which will be financed with Federal money;
       (2) the dollar amount of Federal funds for the project or 
     program; and
       (3) percentage and dollar amount of the total costs of the 
     project or program that will be financed by non-governmental 
     sources.
       Sec. 506. (a) None of the funds appropriated in this Act, 
     and none of the funds in any trust fund to which funds are 
     appropriated in this Act, shall be expended for any abortion.
       (b) None of the funds appropriated in this Act, and none of 
     the funds in any trust fund to which funds are appropriated 
     in this Act, shall be expended for health benefits coverage 
     that includes coverage of abortion.
       (c) The term ``health benefits coverage'' means the package 
     of services covered by a managed care provider or 
     organization pursuant to a contract or other arrangement.
       Sec. 507. (a) The limitations established in the preceding 
     section shall not apply to an abortion--
       (1) if the pregnancy is the result of an act of rape or 
     incest; or
       (2) in the case where a woman suffers from a physical 
     disorder, physical injury, or physical illness, including a 
     life-endangering physical condition caused by or arising from 
     the pregnancy itself, that would, as certified by a 
     physician, place the woman in danger of death unless an 
     abortion is performed.
       (b) Nothing in the preceding section shall be construed as 
     prohibiting the expenditure by a State, locality, entity, or 
     private person of State, local, or private funds (other than 
     a State's or locality's contribution of Medicaid matching 
     funds).
       (c) Nothing in the preceding section shall be construed as 
     restricting the ability of any managed care provider from 
     offering abortion coverage or the ability of a State or 
     locality to contract separately with such a provider for such 
     coverage with State funds (other than a State's or locality's 
     contribution of Medicaid matching funds).
       (d)(1) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
     made available to a Federal agency or program, or to a State 
     or local government, if such agency, program, or government 
     subjects any institutional or individual health care entity 
     to discrimination on the basis that the health care entity 
     does not provide, pay for, provide coverage of, or refer for 
     abortions.
       (2) In this subsection, the term ``health care entity'' 
     includes an individual physician or other health care 
     professional, a hospital, a provider-sponsored organization, 
     a health maintenance organization, a health insurance plan, 
     or any other kind of health care facility, organization, or 
     plan.
       Sec. 508. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act 
     may be used for--
       (1) the creation of a human embryo or embryos for research 
     purposes; or
       (2) research in which a human embryo or embryos are 
     destroyed, discarded, or knowingly subjected to risk of 
     injury or death greater than that allowed for research on 
     fetuses in utero under 45 CFR 46.204(b) and section 498(b) of 
     the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 289g(b)).

[[Page H6942]]

       (b) For purposes of this section, the term ``human embryo 
     or embryos'' includes any organism, not protected as a human 
     subject under 45 CFR 46 as of the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, that is derived by fertilization, parthenogenesis, 
     cloning, or any other means from one or more human gametes or 
     human diploid cells.
       Sec. 509. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act 
     may be used for any activity that promotes the legalization 
     of any drug or other substance included in schedule I of the 
     schedules of controlled substances established under section 
     202 of the Controlled Substances Act except for normal and 
     recognized executive-congressional communications.
       (b) The limitation in subsection (a) shall not apply when 
     there is significant medical evidence of a therapeutic 
     advantage to the use of such drug or other substance or that 
     federally sponsored clinical trials are being conducted to 
     determine therapeutic advantage.
       Sec. 510.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used to promulgate or adopt any final standard under 
     section 1173(b) of the Social Security Act providing for, or 
     providing for the assignment of, a unique health identifier 
     for an individual (except in an individual's capacity as an 
     employer or a health care provider), until legislation is 
     enacted specifically approving the standard.
       Sec. 511.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be obligated or expended to enter into or renew a contract 
     with an entity if--
       (1) such entity is otherwise a contractor with the United 
     States and is subject to the requirement in 38 U.S.C. 4212(d) 
     regarding submission of an annual report to the Secretary of 
     Labor concerning employment of certain veterans; and
       (2) such entity has not submitted a report as required by 
     that section for the most recent year for which such 
     requirement was applicable to such entity.
       Sec. 512.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality 
     of the United States Government, except pursuant to a 
     transfer made by, or transfer authority provided in, this Act 
     or any other appropriation Act.
       Sec. 513.  None of the funds made available by this Act to 
     carry out the Library Services and Technology Act may be made 
     available to any library covered by paragraph (1) of section 
     224(f) of such Act, as amended by the Children's Internet 
     Protection Act, unless such library has made the 
     certifications required by paragraph (4) of such section.
       Sec. 514. (a) None of the funds provided under this Act, or 
     provided under previous appropriations Acts to the agencies 
     funded by this Act that remain available for obligation or 
     expenditure in fiscal year 2018, or provided from any 
     accounts in the Treasury of the United States derived by the 
     collection of fees available to the agencies funded by this 
     Act, shall be available for obligation or expenditure through 
     a reprogramming of funds that--
       (1) creates new programs;
       (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity;
       (3) increases funds or personnel by any means for any 
     project or activity for which funds have been denied or 
     restricted;
       (4) relocates an office or employees;
       (5) reorganizes or renames offices;
       (6) reorganizes programs or activities; or
       (7) contracts out or privatizes any functions or activities 
     presently performed by Federal employees;
     unless the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate are consulted 15 days in 
     advance of such reprogramming or of an announcement of intent 
     relating to such reprogramming, whichever occurs earlier, and 
     are notified in writing 10 days in advance of such 
     reprogramming.
       (b) None of the funds provided under this Act, or provided 
     under previous appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by 
     this Act that remain available for obligation or expenditure 
     in fiscal year 2018, or provided from any accounts in the 
     Treasury of the United States derived by the collection of 
     fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall be 
     available for obligation or expenditure through a 
     reprogramming of funds in excess of $500,000 or 10 percent, 
     whichever is less, that--
       (1) augments existing programs, projects (including 
     construction projects), or activities;
       (2) reduces by 10 percent funding for any existing program, 
     project, or activity, or numbers of personnel by 10 percent 
     as approved by Congress; or
       (3) results from any general savings from a reduction in 
     personnel which would result in a change in existing 
     programs, activities, or projects as approved by Congress;
     unless the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate are consulted 15 days in 
     advance of such reprogramming or of an announcement of intent 
     relating to such reprogramming, whichever occurs earlier, and 
     are notified in writing 10 days in advance of such 
     reprogramming.
       Sec. 515. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act 
     may be used to request that a candidate for appointment to a 
     Federal scientific advisory committee disclose the political 
     affiliation or voting history of the candidate or the 
     position that the candidate holds with respect to political 
     issues not directly related to and necessary for the work of 
     the committee involved.
       (b) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
     used to disseminate information that is deliberately false or 
     misleading.
       Sec. 516.  Within 45 days of enactment of this Act, each 
     department and related agency funded through this Act shall 
     submit an operating plan that details at the program, 
     project, and activity level any funding allocations for 
     fiscal year 2018 that are different than those specified in 
     this Act, the accompanying detailed table in the committee 
     report accompanying this Act, or the fiscal year 2018 budget 
     request.
       Sec. 517.  The Secretaries of Labor, Health and Human 
     Services, and Education shall each prepare and submit to the 
     Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
     and the Senate a report on the number and amount of 
     contracts, grants, and cooperative agreements exceeding 
     $500,000 in value and awarded by the Department on a non-
     competitive basis during each quarter of fiscal year 2018, 
     but not to include grants awarded on a formula basis or 
     directed by law. Such report shall include the name of the 
     contractor or grantee, the amount of funding, the 
     governmental purpose, including a justification for issuing 
     the award on a non-competitive basis. Such report shall be 
     transmitted to the Committees within 30 days after the end of 
     the quarter for which the report is submitted.
       Sec. 518.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall 
     be expended or obligated by the Commissioner of Social 
     Security, for purposes of administering Social Security 
     benefit payments under title II of the Social Security Act, 
     to process any claim for credit for a quarter of coverage 
     based on work performed under a social security account 
     number that is not the claimant's number and the performance 
     of such work under such number has formed the basis for a 
     conviction of the claimant of a violation of section 
     208(a)(6) or (7) of the Social Security Act.
       Sec. 519.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may 
     be used by the Commissioner of Social Security or the Social 
     Security Administration to pay the compensation of employees 
     of the Social Security Administration to administer Social 
     Security benefit payments, under any agreement between the 
     United States and Mexico establishing totalization 
     arrangements between the social security system established 
     by title II of the Social Security Act and the social 
     security system of Mexico, which would not otherwise be 
     payable but for such agreement.
       Sec. 520.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, 
     no funds appropriated in this Act shall be used to purchase 
     sterile needles or syringes for the hypodermic injection of 
     any illegal drug:  Provided, That such limitation does not 
     apply to the use of funds for elements of a program other 
     than making such purchases if the relevant State or local 
     health department, in consultation with the Centers for 
     Disease Control and Prevention, determines that the State or 
     local jurisdiction, as applicable, is experiencing, or is at 
     risk for, a significant increase in hepatitis infections or 
     an HIV outbreak due to injection drug use, and such program 
     is operating in accordance with State and local law.
       Sec. 521. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act 
     may be used to maintain or establish a computer network 
     unless such network blocks the viewing, downloading, and 
     exchanging of pornography.
       (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
     necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law 
     enforcement agency or any other entity carrying out criminal 
     investigations, prosecution, or adjudication activities.
       Sec. 522.  None of the funds made available under this or 
     any other Act, or any prior Appropriations Act, may be 
     provided to the Association of Community Organizations for 
     Reform Now (ACORN), or any of its affiliates, subsidiaries, 
     allied organizations, or successors.
       Sec. 523.  For purposes of carrying out Executive Order 
     13589, Office of Management and Budget Memorandum M-12-12 
     dated May 11, 2012, and requirements contained in the annual 
     appropriations bills relating to conference attendance and 
     expenditures:
       (1) the operating divisions of HHS shall be considered 
     independent agencies; and
       (2) attendance at and support for scientific conferences 
     shall be tabulated separately from and not included in agency 
     totals.
       Sec. 524.  Federal agencies funded under this Act shall 
     clearly state within the text, audio, or video used for 
     advertising or educational purposes, including emails or 
     Internet postings, that the communication is printed, 
     published, or produced and disseminated at U.S. taxpayer 
     expense. The funds used by a Federal agency to carry out this 
     requirement shall be derived from amounts made available to 
     the agency for advertising or other communications regarding 
     the programs and activities of the agency.
       Sec. 525. (a) Federal agencies may use Federal 
     discretionary funds that are made available in this Act to 
     carry out up to 10 Performance Partnership Pilots. Such 
     Pilots shall be governed by the provisions of section 526 of 
     division H of Public Law 113-76, except that in carrying out 
     such Pilots section 526 shall be applied by substituting 
     ``Fiscal Year 2018'' for ``Fiscal Year 2014'' in the title of 
     subsection (b) and by substituting ``September 30, 2022'' for 
     ``September 30, 2018'' each place it appears:  Provided, That 
     such pilots shall include communities that have experienced 
     civil unrest.

[[Page H6943]]

       (b) In addition, Federal agencies may use Federal 
     discretionary funds that are made available in this Act to 
     participate in Performance Partnership Pilots that are being 
     carried out pursuant to the authority provided by section 526 
     of division H of Public Law 113-76, section 524 of division G 
     of Public Law 113-235, and section 525 of division H of 
     Public Law 114-113.
       (c) Pilot sites selected under authorities in this Act and 
     prior appropriations Acts may be granted by relevant agencies 
     up to an additional 5 years to operate under such 
     authorities.
       Sec. 526.  Not later than 30 days after the end of each 
     calendar quarter, beginning with the first quarter of fiscal 
     year 2013, the Departments of Labor, Health and Human 
     Services and Education and the Social Security Administration 
     shall provide the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
     of Representatives and Senate a quarterly report on the 
     status of balances of appropriations:  Provided, That for 
     balances that are unobligated and uncommitted, committed, and 
     obligated but unexpended, the quarterly reports shall 
     separately identify the amounts attributable to each source 
     year of appropriation (beginning with fiscal year 2012, or, 
     to the extent feasible, earlier fiscal years) from which 
     balances were derived.
       Sec. 527.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used to implement, administer, enforce, or further any 
     provision of Public Law 111-148 or title I or subtitle B of 
     title II of Public Law 111-152 and the amendment made by such 
     provision: Provided, That funds in this Act may be used to 
     implement, administer, enforce, or further the rate setting 
     process for calendar year 2018 and fiscal year 2019 for 
     Medicare under title XVIII of the Social Security Act: 
     Provided further, That funds in this Act may be used to 
     implement, administer, enforce, or further the final rules 
     for the provisions of (and amendments made by) sections 
     2501(c), 2501(d), and 2503 of Public Law 111-148, as amended 
     by sections 1206(a) and 1101(c) of Public Law 111-152, 
     insofar as each respective rule relates to calendar year 
     2018.
       Sec. 528.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to conduct or support research using human fetal 
     tissue if such tissue is obtained pursuant to an induced 
     abortion.
       Sec. 529 (a) IN GENERAL.--Notwithstanding any other 
     provision of law, none of the funds made available by this 
     Act may be made available either directly, through a State 
     (including through managed care contracts with a State), or 
     through any other means, to a prohibited entity.
       (b) PROHIBITED ENTITY.--The term ``prohibited entity'' 
     means an entity, including its affiliates, subsidiaries, 
     successors, and clinics--
       (1) that, as of the date of enactment of this Act--
       (A) is an organization described in section 501(c)(3) of 
     the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from taxation 
     under section 501(a) of such Code;
       (B) is an essential community provider described in section 
     156.235 of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations (as in 
     effect on the date of enactment of this Act), that is 
     primarily engaged in family planning services, reproductive 
     health, and related medical care; and
       (C) performs, or provides any funds to any other entity 
     that performs abortions, other than an abortion performed--
       (i) in the case of a pregnancy that is the result of an act 
     of rape or incest; or
       (ii) in the case where a woman suffers from a physical 
     disorder, physical injury, or physical illness that would, as 
     certified by a physician, place the woman in danger of death 
     unless an abortion is performed, including a life endangering 
     physical condition caused by, or arising from, the pregnancy 
     itself; and
       (2) for which the total amount of Federal grants to such 
     entity, including grants to any affiliates, subsidiaries, or 
     clinics of such entity, under title X of the Public Health 
     Service Act in fiscal year 2016 exceeded $23,000,000.
       (c)(1) END OF PROHIBITION.--The definition in subsection 
     (b) shall cease to apply to an entity if such entity 
     certifies that it, including its affiliates, subsidiaries, 
     successors, and clinics, will not perform, and will not 
     provide any funds to any other entity that performs, an 
     abortion as described in subsection (b)(1)(C).
       (2) REPAYMENT.--The Secretary of Health and Human Services 
     shall seek repayment of any Federal assistance received by 
     any entity that had made a certification described in 
     paragraph (1) and subsequently violated the terms of such 
     certification.

                              (rescission)

       Sec. 530.  Of the unobligated balances in the 
     ``Nonrecurring expenses fund'' established in section 223 of 
     division G of Public Law 110-161 $560,000,000 is rescinded.

                              (rescission)

       Sec. 531.  Of the funds made available for fiscal year 2018 
     under section 3403 of Public Law 111-148, $15,000,000 are 
     rescinded.
       Sec. 532.  Amounts deposited in the Child Enrollment 
     Contingency Fund prior to the beginning of fiscal year 2018 
     under section 2104(n)(2) of the Social Security Act and the 
     income derived from investment of those funds pursuant to 
     section 2104(n)(2)(C) of that Act, shall not be available for 
     obligation in this fiscal year.

                              (rescission)

       Sec. 533.  Of the unobligated balances of amounts 
     appropriated under section 1101(g) of Public Law 111-148 (42 
     U.S.C. 18001(g)), $323,000,000 is rescinded.

                              (rescission)

       Sec. 534.  Of the funds made available for purposes of 
     carrying out section 2105(a)(3) of the Social Security Act, 
     $88,613,000 are hereby rescinded.

                              (rescission)

       Sec. 535.  Of any available amounts appropriated under 
     section 301(b)(3) of Public Law 114-10, $3,945,905,000 are 
     hereby rescinded.
       Sec. 536. (a) This section may be cited as the ``Conscience 
     Protection Act of 2017''.
       (b) Congress finds as follows:
       (1) Thomas Jefferson stated a conviction common to our 
     Nation's founders when he declared in 1809 that ``[n]o 
     provision in our Constitution ought to be dearer to man than 
     that which protects the rights of conscience against the 
     enterprises of the civil authority''.
       (2) In 1973, the Supreme Court concluded that the 
     government must leave the abortion decision ``to the medical 
     judgment of the pregnant woman's attending physician'', 
     recognizing that a physician may choose not to participate in 
     abortion. Roe v. Wade, 410 U.S. 113, 164 (1973). The Court 
     cited with approval a policy that ``neither physician, 
     hospital, nor hospital personnel shall be required to perform 
     any act violative of personally-held moral principles'', 410 
     U.S. at 143 n. 38, and cited State laws upholding this 
     principle. Doe v. Bolton, 410 U.S. 179, 197-8 (1973).
       (3) Congress's enactments to protect this right of 
     conscience in health care include the Church amendment of 
     1973 (42 U.S.C. 300a-7), the Coats/Snowe amendment of 1996 
     (42 U.S.C. 238n), and the Weldon amendment approved by 
     Congresses and Presidents of both parties every year since 
     2004.
       (4) None of these laws explicitly provides a ``private 
     right of action'' so victims of discrimination can defend 
     their conscience rights in court, and administrative 
     enforcement by the Department of Health and Human Services 
     Office for Civil Rights has been lax, at times allowing cases 
     to languish for years without resolution.
       (5) Defying the Federal Weldon amendment, California's 
     Department of Managed Health Care has mandated coverage for 
     all elective abortions in all health plans under its 
     jurisdiction. Other States such as New York and Washington 
     have taken or considered similar action, and some States may 
     go farther to require all physicians and hospitals to provide 
     or facilitate abortions. On June 21, 2016, the Obama 
     Administration concluded a nearly two-year investigation of 
     this matter by determining that California's decision to 
     require insurance plans under the California Department for 
     Managed Health Care authority to cover all legal abortion 
     services did not violate the Weldon amendment. Until the new 
     Administration is able to reverse this finding, individuals 
     will have to choose between ignoring their conscience or 
     forgoing health care coverage.
       (6) The vast majority of medical professionals do not 
     perform abortions, with 86 percent of ob/gyns unwilling to 
     provide them in a recent study (Obstetrics & Gynecology, 
     Sept. 2011) and the great majority of hospitals choosing to 
     do so in rare cases or not at all.
       (7) A health care provider's decision not to participate in 
     an abortion, like Congress's decision not to fund most 
     abortions, erects no new barrier to those seeking to perform 
     or undergo abortions but leaves each party free to act as he 
     or she wishes.
       (8) Such protection poses no conflict with other Federal 
     laws, such as the law requiring emergency stabilizing 
     treatment for a pregnant woman and her unborn child when 
     either is in distress (Emergency Medical Treatment and Active 
     Labor Act). As the previous Administration has said, these 
     areas of law have operated side by side for many years and 
     both should be fully enforced (76 Fed. Reg. 9968-77 (2011) at 
     9973).
       (9) Reaffirming longstanding Federal policy on conscience 
     rights and providing a right of action in cases where it is 
     violated allows longstanding and widely supported Federal 
     laws to work as intended.
       (c) Title II of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
     202 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 245 the 
     following:

     ``SEC. 245A. PROHIBITING GOVERNMENTAL DISCRIMINATION AGAINST 
                   PROVIDERS OF HEALTH SERVICES THAT ARE NOT 
                   INVOLVED IN ABORTION.

       ``(a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other law, the 
     Federal Government, and any State or local government that 
     receives Federal financial assistance, may not penalize, 
     retaliate against, or otherwise discriminate against a health 
     care provider on the basis that the provider does not--
       ``(1) perform, refer for, pay for, or otherwise participate 
     in abortion;
       ``(2) provide or sponsor abortion coverage; or
       ``(3) facilitate or make arrangements for any of the 
     activities specified in this subsection.
       ``(b) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall 
     be construed--
       ``(1) to prevent any health care provider from voluntarily 
     electing to participate in abortions or abortion referrals;
       ``(2) to prevent any health care provider from voluntarily 
     electing to provide or sponsor abortion coverage or health 
     benefits coverage that includes abortion;
       ``(3) to prevent an accrediting agency, the Federal 
     Government, or a State or local government from establishing 
     standards of medical competency applicable only to those

[[Page H6944]]

     who have knowingly, voluntarily, and specifically elected to 
     perform abortions, or from enforcing contractual obligations 
     applicable only to those who, as part of such contract, 
     knowingly, voluntarily, and specifically elect to provide 
     abortions;
       ``(4) to affect, or be affected by, section 1867 of the 
     Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395dd, commonly referred to 
     as the `Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act'); 
     or
       ``(5) to supersede any law enacted by any State for the 
     purpose of regulating insurance, except as specified in 
     subsection (a).
       ``(c) Administration.--The Secretary shall designate the 
     Director of the Office for Civil Rights of the Department of 
     Health and Human Services--
       ``(1) to receive complaints alleging a violation of this 
     section, section 245 of this Act, or any of subsections (b) 
     through (e) of section 401 of the Health Programs Extension 
     Act of 1973; and
       ``(2) to pursue the investigation of such complaints in 
     coordination with the Attorney General.
       ``(d) Definitions.--For purposes of this section:
       ``(1) Federal financial assistance.--The term `Federal 
     financial assistance' means Federal payments to cover the 
     cost of health care services or benefits, or other Federal 
     payments, grants, or loans to promote or otherwise facilitate 
     health-related activities.
       ``(2) Health care provider.--The term `health care 
     provider' means--
       ``(A) an individual physician, nurse, or other health care 
     professional;
       ``(B) a hospital, health system, or other health care 
     facility or organization (including a party to a proposed 
     merger or other collaborative arrangement relating to health 
     services, and an entity resulting therefrom);
       ``(C) a provider-sponsored organization, an accountable 
     care organization, or a health maintenance organization;
       ``(D) a social services provider that provides or 
     authorizes referrals for health care services;
       ``(E) a program of training in the health professions or an 
     applicant to or participant in such a program;
       ``(F) an issuer of health insurance coverage; or
       ``(G) a group health plan or student health plan, or a 
     sponsor or administrator thereof.
       ``(3) State or local government that receives federal 
     financial assistance.--The term `State or local government 
     that receives Federal financial assistance' includes every 
     agency and other governmental unit and subdivision of a State 
     or local government, if such State or local government, or 
     any agency or governmental unit or subdivision thereof, 
     receives Federal financial assistance.

     ``SEC. 245B. CIVIL ACTION FOR CERTAIN VIOLATIONS.

       ``(a) In General.--A qualified party may, in a civil 
     action, obtain appropriate relief with regard to a designated 
     violation.
       ``(b) Definitions.--For purposes of this section:
       ``(1) Qualified party.--The term `qualified party' means--
       ``(A) the Attorney General of the United States; or
       ``(B) any person or entity adversely affected by the 
     designated violation.
       ``(2) Designated violation.--The term `designated 
     violation' means an actual or threatened violation of--
       ``(A) section 245 or 245A of this Act; or
       ``(B) any of subsections (b) through (e) of section 401 of 
     the Health Programs Extension Act of 1973 regarding an 
     objection to abortion.
       ``(c) Administrative Remedies Not Required.--An action 
     under this section may be commenced, and relief may be 
     granted, without regard to whether the party commencing the 
     action has sought or exhausted available administrative 
     remedies.
       ``(d) Defendants in Actions Under This Section May Include 
     Governmental Entities as Well as Others.--
       ``(1) In general.--An action under this section may be 
     maintained against, among others, a party that is a Federal 
     or State governmental entity. Relief in an action under this 
     section may include money damages even if the defendant is 
     such a governmental entity.
       ``(2) Definition.--For the purposes of this subsection, the 
     term `State governmental entity' means a State, a local 
     government within a State, and any agency or other 
     governmental unit or subdivision of a State or of such a 
     local government.
       ``(e) Nature of Relief.--In an action under this section, 
     the court shall grant--
       ``(1) all necessary equitable and legal relief, including, 
     where appropriate, declaratory relief and compensatory 
     damages, to prevent the occurrence, continuance, or 
     repetition of the designated violation and to compensate for 
     losses resulting from the designated violation; and
       ``(2) to a prevailing plaintiff, reasonable attorneys' fees 
     and litigation expenses as part of the costs.''.
       Sec. 537.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to implement, administer, or enforce the rule 
     entitled ``Establishing a Minimum Wage for Contractors'' 
     published by the Department of Labor in the Federal Register 
     on October 7, 2014 (79 Fed. Reg. 60634), with respect to 
     Federal contracts, permits, or other contract-like 
     instruments entered into with the Federal Government in 
     connection with Federal property or lands, specifically 
     related to offering seasonal recreational services or 
     seasonal recreation equipment rental for the general public: 
     Provided, That this section shall not apply to lodging and 
     food services associated with seasonal recreation services.

                           references to act

       Sec. 538.  Except as expressly provided otherwise, any 
     reference to ``this Act'' contained in this division shall be 
     treated as referring only to the provisions of this division.

                          reference to report

       Sec. 539.  Any reference to a ``report accompanying this 
     Act'' contained in this division shall be treated as a 
     reference to House Report 115-244. The effect of such Report 
     shall be limited to this division and shall apply for 
     purposes of determining the allocation of funds provided by, 
     and the implementation of, this division.

                       spending reduction account

       Sec. 540.  $0.
       This division may be cited as the ``Departments of Labor, 
     Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related 
     Agencies Appropriations Act, 2018''.

   DIVISION G--DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED 
                   PROGRAMS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2018

        The following sums are appropriated, out of any money in 
     the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the Department 
     of State, foreign operations, and related programs for the 
     fiscal year ending September 30, 2018, and for other 
     purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                 DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND RELATED AGENCY

                          DEPARTMENT OF STATE

                   Administration of Foreign Affairs

                    diplomatic and consular programs

       For necessary expenses of the Department of State and the 
     Foreign Service not otherwise provided for, $5,449,289,000, 
     of which up to $610,000,000 may remain available until 
     September 30, 2019, and of which up to $1,380,752,000 may 
     remain available until expended for Worldwide Security 
     Protection: Provided, That funds made available under this 
     heading shall be allocated in accordance with paragraphs (1) 
     through (4) as follows:
       (1) Human resources.--For necessary expenses for training, 
     human resources management, and salaries, including 
     employment without regard to civil service and classification 
     laws of persons on a temporary basis (not to exceed 
     $700,000), as authorized by section 801 of the United States 
     Information and Educational Exchange Act of 1948, 
     $2,522,390,000, of which up to $476,879,000 is for Worldwide 
     Security Protection.
       (2) Overseas programs.--For necessary expenses for the 
     regional bureaus of the Department of State and overseas 
     activities as authorized by law, $1,260,517,000.
       (3) Diplomatic policy and support.--For necessary expenses 
     for the functional bureaus of the Department of State, 
     including representation to certain international 
     organizations in which the United States participates 
     pursuant to treaties ratified pursuant to the advice and 
     consent of the Senate or specific Acts of Congress, general 
     administration, and arms control, nonproliferation and 
     disarmament activities as authorized, $740,052,000.
       (4) Security programs.--For necessary expenses for security 
     activities, $926,330,000, of which up to $903,873,000 is for 
     Worldwide Security Protection.
       (5) Fees and payments collected.--In addition to amounts 
     otherwise made available under this heading--
       (A) as authorized by section 810 of the United States 
     Information and Educational Exchange Act, not to exceed 
     $5,000,000, to remain available until expended, may be 
     credited to this appropriation from fees or other payments 
     received from English teaching, library, motion pictures, and 
     publication programs and from fees from educational advising 
     and counseling and exchange visitor programs; and
       (B) not to exceed $15,000, which shall be derived from 
     reimbursements, surcharges, and fees for use of Blair House 
     facilities.
       (6) Transfer, reprogramming, and other matters.--
       (A) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, funds 
     may be reprogrammed within and between paragraphs (1) through 
     (4) under this heading subject to section 7015 of this Act.
       (B) Of the amount made available under this heading, not to 
     exceed $10,000,000 may be transferred to, and merged with, 
     funds made available by this Act under the heading 
     ``Emergencies in the Diplomatic and Consular Service'', to be 
     available only for emergency evacuations and rewards, as 
     authorized.
       (C) Funds appropriated under this heading are available for 
     acquisition by exchange or purchase of passenger motor 
     vehicles as authorized by law and, pursuant to section 
     1108(g) of title 31, United States Code, for the field 
     examination of programs and activities in the United States 
     funded from any account contained in this title.

[[Page H6945]]

       (D) Funds appropriated under this heading may be made 
     available for Conflict Stabilization Operations and for 
     related reconstruction and stabilization assistance to 
     prevent or respond to conflict or civil strife in foreign 
     countries or regions, or to enable transition from such 
     strife.
       (E) Funds appropriated under this heading in this Act that 
     are designated for Worldwide Security Protection shall 
     continue to be made available for support of security-related 
     training at sites in existence prior to the enactment of this 
     Act.

                        capital investment fund

       For necessary expenses of the Capital Investment Fund, as 
     authorized, $15,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                      office of inspector general

       For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
     $73,869,000, notwithstanding section 209(a)(1) of the Foreign 
     Service Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-465), as it relates to 
     post inspections: Provided, That of the funds appropriated 
     under this heading, $13,060,000 may remain available until 
     September 30, 2019.

               educational and cultural exchange programs

       For expenses of educational and cultural exchange programs, 
     as authorized, $590,900,000, to remain available until 
     expended, of which not less than $236,000,000 shall be for 
     the Fulbright Program and not less than $111,360,000 shall be 
     for Citizen Exchange Program, including $4,125,000 for the 
     Congress-Bundestag Youth Exchange: Provided, That fees or 
     other payments received from, or in connection with, English 
     teaching, educational advising and counseling programs, and 
     exchange visitor programs as authorized may be credited to 
     this account, to remain available until expended: Provided 
     further, That any substantive modifications from the prior 
     fiscal year to programs funded by this Act under this heading 
     shall be subject to prior consultation with, and the regular 
     notification procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations.

                        representation expenses

       For representation expenses as authorized, $7,000,000.

              protection of foreign missions and officials

       For expenses, not otherwise provided, to enable the 
     Secretary of State to provide for extraordinary protective 
     services, as authorized, $30,890,000, to remain available 
     until September 30, 2019.

            embassy security, construction, and maintenance

       For necessary expenses for carrying out the Foreign Service 
     Buildings Act of 1926 (22 U.S.C. 292 et seq.), preserving, 
     maintaining, repairing, and planning for buildings that are 
     owned or directly leased by the Department of State, 
     renovating, in addition to funds otherwise available, the 
     Harry S Truman Building, and carrying out the Diplomatic 
     Security Construction Program as authorized, $754,459,000, to 
     remain available until expended, of which not to exceed 
     $25,000 may be used for domestic and overseas representation 
     expenses as authorized: Provided, That none of the funds 
     appropriated in this paragraph shall be available for 
     acquisition of furniture, furnishings, or generators for 
     other departments and agencies of the United States 
     Government.
       In addition, for the costs of worldwide security upgrades, 
     acquisition, and construction as authorized, $1,488,237,000, 
     to remain available until expended: Provided, That not later 
     than 45 days after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
     State shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations the 
     proposed allocation of funds made available under this 
     heading and the actual and anticipated proceeds of sales for 
     all projects in fiscal year 2018.

           emergencies in the diplomatic and consular service

       For necessary expenses to enable the Secretary of State to 
     meet unforeseen emergencies arising in the Diplomatic and 
     Consular Service, as authorized, $7,885,000, to remain 
     available until expended, of which not to exceed $1,000,000 
     may be transferred to, and merged with, funds appropriated by 
     this Act under the heading ``Repatriation Loans Program 
     Account'', subject to the same terms and conditions.

                   repatriation loans program account

       For the cost of direct loans, $1,300,000, as authorized: 
     Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying 
     such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  Provided further, That 
     such funds are available to subsidize gross obligations for 
     the principal amount of direct loans not to exceed 
     $2,440,856.

              payment to the american institute in taiwan

       For necessary expenses to carry out the Taiwan Relations 
     Act (Public Law 96-8), $30,557,000.

         international center, washington, district of columbia

       Not to exceed $1,806,600 shall be derived from fees 
     collected from other executive agencies for lease or use of 
     facilities at the International Center in accordance with 
     section 4 of the International Center Act (Public Law 90-
     553), and, in addition, as authorized by section 5 of such 
     Act, $743,000, to be derived from the reserve authorized by 
     such section, to be used for the purposes set out in that 
     section.

     payment to the foreign service retirement and disability fund

       For payment to the Foreign Service Retirement and 
     Disability Fund, as authorized, $158,900,000.

                      International Organizations

              contributions to international organizations

       For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, to meet 
     annual obligations of membership in international 
     multilateral organizations, pursuant to treaties ratified 
     pursuant to the advice and consent of the Senate, conventions 
     or specific Acts of Congress, $1,074,645,000: Provided, That 
     the Secretary of State shall, at the time of the submission 
     of the President's budget to Congress under section 1105(a) 
     of title 31, United States Code, transmit to the Committees 
     on Appropriations the most recent biennial budget prepared by 
     the United Nations for the operations of the United Nations: 
     Provided further, That the Secretary of State shall notify 
     the Committees on Appropriations at least 15 days in advance 
     (or in an emergency, as far in advance as is practicable) of 
     any United Nations action to increase funding for any United 
     Nations program without identifying an offsetting decrease 
     elsewhere in the United Nations budget: Provided further, 
     That not later than June 1, 2018, and 30 days after the end 
     of fiscal year 2018, the Secretary of State shall report to 
     the Committees on Appropriations any credits attributable to 
     the United States, including from the United Nations Tax 
     Equalization Fund, and provide updated fiscal year 2018 and 
     fiscal year 2019 assessment costs including offsets from 
     available credits and updated foreign currency exchange 
     rates: Provided further, That any such credits shall only be 
     available for United States assessed contributions to the 
     United Nations regular budget, and the Committees on 
     Appropriations shall be notified when such credits are 
     applied to any assessed contribution, including any payment 
     of arrearages: Provided further, That any notification 
     regarding funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
     under this heading in this Act or prior Acts making 
     appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
     operations, and related programs submitted pursuant to 
     section 7015 of this Act, section 34 of the State Department 
     Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2706), or any 
     operating plan submitted pursuant to section 7076 of this 
     Act, shall include an estimate of all known credits currently 
     attributable to the United States and provide updated 
     assessment costs, including offsets from available credits 
     and updated foreign currency exchange rates: Provided 
     further, That any payment of arrearages under this heading 
     shall be directed to activities that are mutually agreed upon 
     by the United States and the respective international 
     organization and shall be subject to the regular notification 
     procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided 
     further, That none of the funds appropriated under this 
     heading shall be available for a United States contribution 
     to an international organization for the United States share 
     of interest costs made known to the United States Government 
     by such organization for loans incurred on or after October 
     1, 1984, through external borrowings.

        contributions for international peacekeeping activities

       For necessary expenses to pay assessed and other expenses 
     of international peacekeeping activities directed to the 
     maintenance or restoration of international peace and 
     security, $529,909,000, of which 15 percent shall remain 
     available until September 30, 2019: Provided, That none of 
     the funds made available by this Act shall be obligated or 
     expended for any new or expanded United Nations peacekeeping 
     mission unless, at least 15 days in advance of voting for 
     such mission in the United Nations Security Council (or in an 
     emergency as far in advance as is practicable), the 
     Committees on Appropriations are notified of: (1) the 
     estimated cost and duration of the mission, the objectives of 
     the mission, the national interest that will be served, and 
     the exit strategy; and (2) the sources of funds, including 
     any reprogrammings or transfers, that will be used to pay the 
     cost of the new or expanded mission, and the estimated cost 
     in future fiscal years: Provided further, That none of the 
     funds appropriated under this heading may be made available 
     for obligation unless the Secretary of State certifies and 
     reports to the Committees on Appropriations on a peacekeeping 
     mission-by-mission basis that the United Nations is 
     implementing effective policies and procedures to prevent 
     United Nations employees, contractor personnel, and 
     peacekeeping troops serving in such mission from trafficking 
     in persons, exploiting victims of trafficking, or committing 
     acts of sexual exploitation and abuse or other violations of 
     human rights, and to bring to justice individuals who engage 
     in such acts while participating in such mission, including 
     prosecution in their home countries and making information 
     about such prosecutions publicly available on the Web site of 
     the United Nations: Provided further, That the Secretary of 
     State shall work with the United Nations and foreign 
     governments contributing peacekeeping troops to implement 
     effective vetting procedures to ensure that such troops have 
     not violated human rights: Provided further, That funds shall 
     be available for peacekeeping expenses unless the Secretary 
     of State determines that

[[Page H6946]]

     United States manufacturers and suppliers are not being given 
     opportunities to provide equipment, services, and material 
     for United Nations peacekeeping activities equal to those 
     being given to foreign manufacturers and suppliers: Provided 
     further, That none of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available under this heading may be used for any United 
     Nations peacekeeping mission that will involve United States 
     Armed Forces under the command or operational control of a 
     foreign national, unless the President's military advisors 
     have submitted to the President a recommendation that such 
     involvement is in the national interest of the United States 
     and the President has submitted to Congress such a 
     recommendation: Provided further, That not later than June 1, 
     2018, and 30 days after the end of fiscal year 2018, the 
     Secretary of State shall report to the Committees on 
     Appropriations any credits attributable to the United States, 
     including those resulting from United Nations peacekeeping 
     missions or the United Nations Tax Equalization Fund, and 
     provide updated fiscal year 2018 and fiscal year 2019 
     assessment costs including offsets from available credits: 
     Provided further, That any such credits shall only be 
     available for United States assessed contributions to United 
     Nations peacekeeping missions, and the Committees on 
     Appropriations shall be notified when such credits are 
     applied to any assessed contribution, including any payment 
     of arrearages: Provided further, That any notification 
     regarding funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
     under this heading in this Act or prior Acts making 
     appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
     operations, and related programs submitted pursuant to 
     section 7015 of this Act, section 34 of the State Department 
     Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2706), or any 
     operating plan submitted pursuant to section 7076 of this 
     Act, shall include an estimate of all known credits currently 
     attributable to the United States and provide updated 
     assessment costs, including offsets from available credits: 
     Provided further, That any payment of arrearages with funds 
     appropriated by this Act shall be subject to the regular 
     notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: 
     Provided further, That the Secretary of State shall work with 
     the United Nations and members of the United Nations Security 
     Council to evaluate and prioritize peacekeeping missions, and 
     to consider a draw down when mission goals have been 
     substantially achieved.

                       International Commissions

       For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, to meet 
     obligations of the United States arising under treaties, or 
     specific Acts of Congress, as follows:

 international boundary and water commission, united states and mexico

       For necessary expenses for the United States Section of the 
     International Boundary and Water Commission, United States 
     and Mexico, and to comply with laws applicable to the United 
     States Section, including not to exceed $6,000 for 
     representation expenses; as follows:

                         salaries and expenses

       For salaries and expenses, not otherwise provided for, 
     $44,748,000.

                              construction

       For detailed plan preparation and construction of 
     authorized projects, $27,900,000, to remain available until 
     expended, as authorized.

              american sections, international commissions

       For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided, for the 
     International Joint Commission and the International Boundary 
     Commission, United States and Canada, as authorized by 
     treaties between the United States and Canada or Great 
     Britain, and the Border Environment Cooperation Commission as 
     authorized by the North American Free Trade Agreement 
     Implementation Act (Public Law 103-182), $12,184,000: 
     Provided, That of the amount provided under this heading for 
     the International Joint Commission, up to $500,000 may remain 
     available until September 30, 2019, and $9,000 may be made 
     available for representation expenses.

                  international fisheries commissions

       For necessary expenses for international fisheries 
     commissions, not otherwise provided for, as authorized by 
     law, $34,176,000: Provided, That the United States share of 
     such expenses may be advanced to the respective commissions 
     pursuant to section 3324 of title 31, United States Code.

                             RELATED AGENCY

                    Broadcasting Board of Governors

                 international broadcasting operations

       For necessary expenses to enable the Broadcasting Board of 
     Governors (BBG), as authorized, to carry out international 
     communication activities, and to make and supervise grants 
     for radio, Internet, and television broadcasting to the 
     Middle East, $764,936,000: Provided, That in addition to 
     amounts otherwise available for such purposes, up to 
     $34,935,000 of the amount appropriated under this heading may 
     remain available until expended for satellite transmissions 
     and Internet freedom programs, of which not less than 
     $13,800,000 shall be for Internet freedom programs: Provided 
     further, That of the total amount appropriated under this 
     heading, not to exceed $35,000 may be used for representation 
     expenses, of which $10,000 may be used for such expenses 
     within the United States as authorized, and not to exceed 
     $30,000 may be used for representation expenses of Radio Free 
     Europe/Radio Liberty: Provided further, That the BBG shall 
     notify the Committees on Appropriations within 15 days of any 
     determination by the BBG that any of its broadcast entities, 
     including its grantee organizations, provides an open 
     platform for international terrorists or those who support 
     international terrorism, or is in violation of the principles 
     and standards set forth in subsections (a) and (b) of section 
     303 of the United States International Broadcasting Act of 
     1994 (22 U.S.C. 6202) or the entity's journalistic code of 
     ethics: Provided further, That significant modifications to 
     BBG broadcast hours previously justified to Congress, 
     including changes to transmission platforms (shortwave, 
     medium wave, satellite, Internet, and television), for all 
     BBG language services shall be subject to the regular 
     notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: 
     Provided further, That in addition to funds made available 
     under this heading, and notwithstanding any other provision 
     of law, up to $5,000,000 in receipts from advertising and 
     revenue from business ventures, up to $500,000 in receipts 
     from cooperating international organizations, and up to 
     $1,000,000 in receipts from privatization efforts of the 
     Voice of America and the International Broadcasting Bureau, 
     shall remain available until expended for carrying out 
     authorized purposes.

                   broadcasting capital improvements

       For the purchase, rent, construction, repair, preservation, 
     and improvement of facilities for radio, television, and 
     digital transmission and reception; the purchase, rent, and 
     installation of necessary equipment for radio, television, 
     and digital transmission and reception, including to Cuba, as 
     authorized; and physical security worldwide, in addition to 
     amounts otherwise available for such purposes, $4,791,000, to 
     remain available until expended, as authorized.

                            RELATED PROGRAMS

                          The Asia Foundation

       For a grant to The Asia Foundation, as authorized by The 
     Asia Foundation Act (22 U.S.C. 4402), $15,810,000, to remain 
     available until expended.

                    United States Institute of Peace

       For necessary expenses of the United States Institute of 
     Peace, as authorized by the United States Institute of Peace 
     Act (22 U.S.C. 4601 et seq.), $35,300,000, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2019, which shall not be used 
     for construction activities.

         Center for Middle Eastern-western Dialogue Trust Fund

       For necessary expenses of the Center for Middle Eastern-
     Western Dialogue Trust Fund, as authorized by section 633 of 
     the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the 
     Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2004 (22 
     U.S.C. 2078), the total amount of the interest and earnings 
     accruing to such Fund on or before September 30, 2018, to 
     remain available until expended.

                 Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship Program

       For necessary expenses of Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships, 
     Incorporated, as authorized by sections 4 and 5 of the 
     Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship Act of 1990 (20 U.S.C. 5204-
     5205), all interest and earnings accruing to the Eisenhower 
     Exchange Fellowship Program Trust Fund on or before September 
     30, 2018, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
     none of the funds appropriated herein shall be used to pay 
     any salary or other compensation, or to enter into any 
     contract providing for the payment thereof, in excess of the 
     rate authorized by section 5376 of title 5, United States 
     Code; or for purposes which are not in accordance with 
     section 200 of title 2 of the Code of Federal Regulations, 
     including the restrictions on compensation for personal 
     services.

                    Israeli Arab Scholarship Program

       For necessary expenses of the Israeli Arab Scholarship 
     Program, as authorized by section 214 of the Foreign 
     Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1992 and 1993 (22 
     U.S.C. 2452), all interest and earnings accruing to the 
     Israeli Arab Scholarship Fund on or before September 30, 
     2018, to remain available until expended.

                    National Endowment for Democracy

       For grants made by the Department of State to the National 
     Endowment for Democracy, as authorized by the National 
     Endowment for Democracy Act (22 U.S.C. 4412), $170,000,000, 
     to remain available until expended, of which $117,500,000 
     shall be allocated in the traditional and customary manner, 
     including for the core institutes, and $52,500,000 shall be 
     for democracy programs.

                           OTHER COMMISSIONS

      Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses for the Commission for the 
     Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad, $675,000, as 
     authorized by chapter 3123 of title 54, United States Code: 
     Provided, That the Commission may procure temporary, 
     intermittent, and other services notwithstanding paragraph 
     (3) of section 312304(b) of such chapter: Provided further, 
     That such authority shall terminate on October 1, 2018: 
     Provided further, That the Commission shall notify the 
     Committees on Appropriations prior to exercising such 
     authority.

[[Page H6947]]

  


      United States Commission on International Religious Freedom

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses for the United States Commission on 
     International Religious Freedom, as authorized by title II of 
     the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 (22 U.S.C. 
     6431 et seq.), $4,500,000, to remain available until 
     September 30, 2019, including not more than $4,000 for 
     representation expenses.

            Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Commission on Security and 
     Cooperation in Europe, as authorized by Public Law 94-304, 
     $2,579,000, including not more than $4,000 for representation 
     expenses, to remain available until September 30, 2019.

  Congressional-executive Commission on the People's Republic of China

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Congressional-Executive 
     Commission on the People's Republic of China, as authorized 
     by title III of the U.S.-China Relations Act of 2000 (22 
     U.S.C. 6911 et seq.), $2,000,000, including not more than 
     $3,000 for representation expenses, to remain available until 
     September 30, 2019.

      United States-china Economic and Security Review Commission

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the United States-China Economic 
     and Security Review Commission, as authorized by section 1238 
     of the Floyd D. Spence National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2001 (22 U.S.C. 7002), $3,500,000, including not 
     more than $4,000 for representation expenses, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2019: Provided, That the 
     authorities, requirements, limitations, and conditions 
     contained in the second through sixth provisos under this 
     heading in the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and 
     Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2010 (division F of 
     Public Law 111-117) shall continue in effect during fiscal 
     year 2018 and shall apply to funds appropriated under this 
     heading as if included in this Act.

                                TITLE II

           UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

                           operating expenses

       For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
     section 667 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
     $1,133,906,000, of which up to $170,085,000 may remain 
     available until September 30, 2019: Provided, That none of 
     the funds appropriated under this heading and under the 
     heading ``Capital Investment Fund'' in this title may be made 
     available to finance the construction (including architect 
     and engineering services), purchase, or long-term lease of 
     offices for use by the United States Agency for International 
     Development, unless the USAID Administrator has identified 
     such proposed use of funds in a report submitted to the 
     Committees on Appropriations at least 15 days prior to the 
     obligation of funds for such purposes: Provided further, That 
     contracts or agreements entered into with funds appropriated 
     under this heading may entail commitments for the expenditure 
     of such funds through the following fiscal year: Provided 
     further, That the authority of sections 610 and 109 of the 
     Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be exercised by the 
     Secretary of State to transfer funds appropriated to carry 
     out chapter 1 of part I of such Act to ``Operating Expenses'' 
     in accordance with the provisions of those sections: Provided 
     further, That of the funds appropriated or made available 
     under this heading, not to exceed $250,000 may be available 
     for representation and entertainment expenses, of which not 
     to exceed $5,000 may be available for entertainment expenses, 
     and not to exceed $100,500 shall be for official residence 
     expenses, for USAID during the current fiscal year.

                        capital investment fund

       For necessary expenses for overseas construction and 
     related costs, and for the procurement and enhancement of 
     information technology and related capital investments, 
     pursuant to section 667 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
     1961, $174,985,000, to remain available until expended: 
     Provided, That this amount is in addition to funds otherwise 
     available for such purposes: Provided further, That funds 
     appropriated under this heading shall be available subject to 
     the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
     Appropriations.

                      office of inspector general

       For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
     section 667 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
     $69,000,000, of which up to $10,350,000 may remain available 
     until September 30, 2019, for the Office of Inspector General 
     of the United States Agency for International Development.

                               TITLE III

                     BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

       For necessary expenses to enable the President to carry out 
     the provisions of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and for 
     other purposes, as follows:

                         global health programs

       For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
     chapters 1 and 10 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
     1961, for global health activities, in addition to funds 
     otherwise available for such purposes, $2,651,000,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2019, and which shall be 
     apportioned directly to the United States Agency for 
     International Development: Provided, That this amount shall 
     be made available for training, equipment, and technical 
     assistance to build the capacity of public health 
     institutions and organizations in developing countries, and 
     for such activities as: (1) child survival and maternal 
     health programs; (2) immunization and oral rehydration 
     programs; (3) other health, nutrition, water and sanitation 
     programs which directly address the needs of mothers and 
     children, and related education programs; (4) assistance for 
     children displaced or orphaned by causes other than AIDS; (5) 
     programs for the prevention, treatment, control of, and 
     research on HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, polio, malaria, and other 
     infectious diseases including neglected tropical diseases, 
     and for assistance to communities severely affected by HIV/
     AIDS, including children infected or affected by AIDS; (6) 
     disaster preparedness training for health crises; (7) 
     programs to prevent, prepare for, and respond to, 
     unanticipated and emerging global health threats; and (8) 
     family planning/reproductive health: Provided further, That 
     funds appropriated under this paragraph may be made available 
     for a United States contribution to the GAVI Alliance and the 
     United Nations Children's Fund: Provided further, That none 
     of the funds made available in this Act nor any unobligated 
     balances from prior appropriations Acts may be made available 
     to any organization or program which, as determined by the 
     President of the United States, supports or participates in 
     the management of a program of coercive abortion or 
     involuntary sterilization: Provided further, That any 
     determination made under the previous proviso must be made 
     not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this 
     Act, and must be accompanied by the evidence and criteria 
     utilized to make the determination: Provided further, That 
     none of the funds made available under this Act may be used 
     to pay for the performance of abortion as a method of family 
     planning or to motivate or coerce any person to practice 
     abortions: Provided further, That nothing in this paragraph 
     shall be construed to alter any existing statutory 
     prohibitions against abortion under section 104 of the 
     Foreign Assistance Act of 1961: Provided further, That none 
     of the funds made available under this Act may be used to 
     lobby for or against abortion: Provided further, That in 
     order to reduce reliance on abortion in developing nations, 
     funds shall be available only to voluntary family planning 
     projects which offer, either directly or through referral to, 
     or information about access to, a broad range of family 
     planning methods and services, and that any such voluntary 
     family planning project shall meet the following 
     requirements: (1) service providers or referral agents in the 
     project shall not implement or be subject to quotas, or other 
     numerical targets, of total number of births, number of 
     family planning acceptors, or acceptors of a particular 
     method of family planning (this provision shall not be 
     construed to include the use of quantitative estimates or 
     indicators for budgeting and planning purposes); (2) the 
     project shall not include payment of incentives, bribes, 
     gratuities, or financial reward to: (A) an individual in 
     exchange for becoming a family planning acceptor; or (B) 
     program personnel for achieving a numerical target or quota 
     of total number of births, number of family planning 
     acceptors, or acceptors of a particular method of family 
     planning; (3) the project shall not deny any right or 
     benefit, including the right of access to participate in any 
     program of general welfare or the right of access to health 
     care, as a consequence of any individual's decision not to 
     accept family planning services; (4) the project shall 
     provide family planning acceptors comprehensible information 
     on the health benefits and risks of the method chosen, 
     including those conditions that might render the use of the 
     method inadvisable and those adverse side effects known to be 
     consequent to the use of the method; and (5) the project 
     shall ensure that experimental contraceptive drugs and 
     devices and medical procedures are provided only in the 
     context of a scientific study in which participants are 
     advised of potential risks and benefits; and, not less than 
     60 days after the date on which the USAID Administrator 
     determines that there has been a violation of the 
     requirements contained in paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (5) of 
     this proviso, or a pattern or practice of violations of the 
     requirements contained in paragraph (4) of this proviso, the 
     Administrator shall submit to the Committees on 
     Appropriations a report containing a description of such 
     violation and the corrective action taken by the Agency: 
     Provided further, That in awarding grants for natural family 
     planning under section 104 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
     1961 no applicant shall be discriminated against because of 
     such applicant's religious or conscientious commitment to 
     offer only natural family planning; and, additionally, all 
     such applicants shall comply with the requirements of the 
     previous proviso: Provided further, That for purposes of this 
     or any other Act authorizing or appropriating funds for the 
     Department of State, foreign operations, and related 
     programs, the term ``motivate'', as it relates to family 
     planning assistance, shall not be construed to prohibit the 
     provision, consistent with local law, of information or

[[Page H6948]]

     counseling about all pregnancy options: Provided further, 
     That information provided about the use of condoms as part of 
     projects or activities that are funded from amounts 
     appropriated by this Act shall be medically accurate and 
     shall include the public health benefits and failure rates of 
     such use.
       In addition, for necessary expenses to carry out the 
     provisions of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for the 
     prevention, treatment, and control of, and research on, HIV/
     AIDS, $5,670,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2022, which shall be apportioned directly to the Department 
     of State: Provided, That funds appropriated under this 
     paragraph may be made available, notwithstanding any other 
     provision of law, except for the United States Leadership 
     Against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria Act of 2003 
     (Public Law 108-25), as amended, for a United States 
     contribution to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis 
     and Malaria (Global Fund), and shall be expended at the 
     minimum rate necessary to make timely payment for projects 
     and activities: Provided further, That up to 5 percent of the 
     aggregate amount of funds made available to the Global Fund 
     in fiscal year 2018 may be made available to USAID for 
     technical assistance related to the activities of the Global 
     Fund, subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
     Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That of the 
     funds appropriated under this paragraph, up to $17,000,000 
     may be made available, in addition to amounts otherwise 
     available for such purposes, for administrative expenses of 
     the Office of the United States Global AIDS Coordinator.

                         development assistance

       For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
     sections 103, 105, 106, 214, and sections 251 through 255, 
     and chapter 10 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
     1961, $2,780,971,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2019.

                   international disaster assistance

       For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
     section 491 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for 
     international disaster relief, rehabilitation, and 
     reconstruction assistance, $1,033,483,000, to remain 
     available until expended.

                         transition initiatives

       For necessary expenses for international disaster 
     rehabilitation and reconstruction assistance administered by 
     the Office of Transition Initiatives, United States Agency 
     for International Development, pursuant to section 491 of the 
     Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $30,000,000, to remain 
     available until expended, to support transition to democracy 
     and long-term development of countries in crisis: Provided, 
     That such support may include assistance to develop, 
     strengthen, or preserve democratic institutions and 
     processes, revitalize basic infrastructure, and foster the 
     peaceful resolution of conflict: Provided further, That the 
     USAID Administrator shall submit a report to the Committees 
     on Appropriations at least 5 days prior to beginning a new 
     program of assistance: Provided further, That if the 
     Secretary of State determines that it is important to the 
     national interest of the United States to provide transition 
     assistance in excess of the amount appropriated under this 
     heading, up to $15,000,000 of the funds appropriated by this 
     Act to carry out the provisions of part I of the Foreign 
     Assistance Act of 1961 may be used for purposes of this 
     heading and under the authorities applicable to funds 
     appropriated under this heading: Provided further, That funds 
     made available pursuant to the previous proviso shall be made 
     available subject to prior consultation with the Committees 
     on Appropriations.

                      development credit authority

       For the cost of direct loans and loan guarantees provided 
     by the United States Agency for International Development, as 
     authorized by sections 256 and 635 of the Foreign Assistance 
     Act of 1961, up to $50,000,000 may be derived by transfer 
     from funds appropriated by this Act to carry out part I of 
     such Act and under the heading ``Assistance for Europe, 
     Eurasia and Central Asia'': Provided, That funds provided 
     under this paragraph and funds provided as a gift that are 
     used for purposes of this paragraph pursuant to section 
     635(d) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall be made 
     available only for micro- and small enterprise programs, 
     urban programs, and other programs which further the purposes 
     of part I of such Act: Provided further, That funds provided 
     as a gift that are used for purposes of this paragraph shall 
     be subject to prior consultation with, and the regular 
     notification procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations: 
     Provided further, That such costs, including the cost of 
     modifying such direct and guaranteed loans, shall be as 
     defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
     1974, as amended: Provided further, That funds made available 
     by this paragraph may be used for the cost of modifying any 
     such guaranteed loans under this Act or prior Acts making 
     appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
     operations, and related programs, and funds used for such 
     cost, including if the cost results in a negative subsidy, 
     shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of 
     the Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That the 
     provisions of section 107A(d) (relating to general provisions 
     applicable to the Development Credit Authority) of the 
     Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as contained in section 306 
     of H.R. 1486 as reported by the House Committee on 
     International Relations on May 9, 1997, shall be applicable 
     to direct loans and loan guarantees provided under this 
     heading, except that the principal amount of loans made or 
     guaranteed under this heading with respect to any single 
     country shall not exceed $300,000,000: Provided further, That 
     these funds are available to subsidize total loan principal, 
     any portion of which is to be guaranteed, of up to 
     $1,750,000,000.
       In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out 
     credit programs administered by USAID, $9,120,000, of which 
     up to $1,300,000 may remain available until September 30, 
     2019.

                         economic support fund

       For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
     chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
     $1,041,761,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019.

                             democracy fund

       For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the 
     Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for the promotion of democracy 
     globally, including to carry out the purposes of section 
     502(b)(3) and (5) of Public Law 98-164 (22 U.S.C. 4411), 
     $145,375,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019, 
     which shall be made available for the Human Rights and 
     Democracy Fund of the Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights, and 
     Labor, Department of State: Provided, That funds appropriated 
     under this heading that are made available to the National 
     Endowment for Democracy and its core institutes are in 
     addition to amounts otherwise available by this Act for such 
     purposes: Provided further, That the Assistant Secretary for 
     Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, Department of State, 
     shall consult with the Committees on Appropriations prior to 
     the obligation of funds appropriated under this paragraph.
       For an additional amount for such purposes, $65,125,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2019, which shall be 
     made available for the Bureau for Democracy, Conflict, and 
     Humanitarian Assistance, United States Agency for 
     International Development.

            assistance for europe, eurasia and central asia

       For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the 
     Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, the FREEDOM Support Act 
     (Public Law 102-511), and the Support for Eastern European 
     Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989 (Public Law 101-179), 
     $691,571,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019, 
     which shall be available, notwithstanding any other provision 
     of law, except section 7070 of this Act, for assistance and 
     related programs for countries identified in section 3 of 
     Public Law 102-511 and section 3(c) of Public Law 101-179, in 
     addition to funds otherwise available for such purposes: 
     Provided, That funds appropriated by this Act under the 
     headings ``Global Health Programs'' and ``Economic Support 
     Fund'' that are made available for assistance for such 
     countries shall be administered in accordance with the 
     responsibilities of the coordinator designated pursuant to 
     section 102 of Public Law 102-511 and section 601 of Public 
     Law 101-179: Provided further, That funds appropriated under 
     this heading shall be considered to be economic assistance 
     under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for purposes of 
     making available the administrative authorities contained in 
     that Act for the use of economic assistance.

                          Department of State

                    migration and refugee assistance

       For necessary expenses not otherwise provided for, to 
     enable the Secretary of State to carry out the provisions of 
     section 2(a) and (b) of the Migration and Refugee Assistance 
     Act of 1962, and other activities to meet refugee and 
     migration needs; salaries and expenses of personnel and 
     dependents as authorized by the Foreign Service Act of 1980; 
     allowances as authorized by sections 5921 through 5925 of 
     title 5, United States Code; purchase and hire of passenger 
     motor vehicles; and services as authorized by section 3109 of 
     title 5, United States Code, $877,802,000, to remain 
     available until expended, of which not less than $35,000,000 
     shall be made available to respond to small-scale emergency 
     humanitarian requirements, and $7,500,000 shall be made 
     available for refugees resettling in Israel.

                          Independent Agencies

                              peace corps

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the 
     Peace Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.), including the 
     purchase of not to exceed five passenger motor vehicles for 
     administrative purposes for use outside of the United States, 
     $398,221,000, of which $5,500,000 is for the Office of 
     Inspector General, to remain available until September 30, 
     2019: Provided, That the Director of the Peace Corps may 
     transfer to the Foreign Currency Fluctuations Account, as 
     authorized by section 16 of the Peace Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 
     2515), an amount not to exceed $5,000,000: Provided further, 
     That funds transferred pursuant to the previous proviso may 
     not be derived from amounts made available for Peace Corps 
     overseas operations: Provided further, That of the funds 
     appropriated under this heading, not to exceed $104,000 may 
     be available for representation expenses, of which not to 
     exceed $4,000 may be made available for entertainment 
     expenses: Provided further, That any decision to open, close, 
     significantly reduce, or suspend a domestic or overseas 
     office or country program shall be subject to prior 
     consultation with, and the regular notification procedures 
     of, the Committees on

[[Page H6949]]

     Appropriations, except that prior consultation and regular 
     notification procedures may be waived when there is a 
     substantial security risk to volunteers or other Peace Corps 
     personnel, pursuant to section 7015(e) of this Act: Provided 
     further, That none of the funds appropriated under this 
     heading shall be used to pay for abortions: Provided further, 
     That notwithstanding the previous proviso, section 614 of 
     division E of Public Law 113-76 shall apply to funds 
     appropriated under this heading.

                    millennium challenge corporation

       For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the 
     Millennium Challenge Act of 2003 (22 U.S.C. 7701 et seq.) 
     (MCA), $697,600,000, to remain available until expended: 
     Provided, That up to 5 percent of the funds appropriated 
     under this heading may be made available to carry out the 
     purposes of section 616 of the MCA for fiscal year 2018: 
     Provided further, That section 605(e) of the MCA shall apply 
     to funds appropriated under this heading: Provided further, 
     That funds appropriated under this heading may be made 
     available for a Millennium Challenge Compact entered into 
     pursuant to section 609 of the MCA only if such Compact 
     obligates, or contains a commitment to obligate subject to 
     the availability of funds and the mutual agreement of the 
     parties to the Compact to proceed, the entire amount of the 
     United States Government funding anticipated for the duration 
     of the Compact: Provided further, That the Millennium 
     Challenge Corporation (MCC) Chief Executive Officer shall 
     notify the Committees on Appropriations not later than 15 
     days prior to commencing negotiations for any country compact 
     or threshold country program; signing any such compact or 
     threshold program; or terminating or suspending any such 
     compact or threshold program: Provided further, That funds 
     appropriated under this heading by this Act and prior Acts 
     making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
     operations, and related programs that are available to 
     implement section 609(g) of the MCA shall be subject to the 
     regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
     Appropriations: Provided further, That no country should be 
     eligible for a threshold program after such country has 
     completed a country compact: Provided further, That any funds 
     that are deobligated from a Millennium Challenge Compact 
     shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of 
     the Committees on Appropriations prior to re-obligation: 
     Provided further, That notwithstanding section 606(a)(2) of 
     the MCA, a country shall be a candidate country for purposes 
     of eligibility for assistance for the fiscal year if the 
     country has a per capita income equal to or below the World 
     Bank's lower middle income country threshold for the fiscal 
     year and is among the 75 lowest per capita income countries 
     as identified by the World Bank; and the country meets the 
     requirements of section 606(a)(1)(B) of the MCA: Provided 
     further, That notwithstanding section 606(b)(1) of the MCA, 
     in addition to countries described in the preceding proviso, 
     a country shall be a candidate country for purposes of 
     eligibility for assistance for the fiscal year if the country 
     has a per capita income equal to or below the World Bank's 
     lower middle income country threshold for the fiscal year and 
     is not among the 75 lowest per capita income countries as 
     identified by the World Bank; and the country meets the 
     requirements of section 606(a)(1)(B) of the MCA: Provided 
     further, That any MCC candidate country under section 606 of 
     the MCA with a per capita income that changes in the fiscal 
     year such that the country would be reclassified from a low 
     income country to a lower middle income country or from a 
     lower middle income country to a low income country shall 
     retain its candidacy status in its former income 
     classification for the fiscal year and the 2 subsequent 
     fiscal years: Provided further, That publication in the 
     Federal Register of a notice of availability of a copy of a 
     Compact on the MCC Web site shall be deemed to satisfy the 
     requirements of section 610(b)(2) of the MCA for such 
     Compact: Provided further, That none of the funds made 
     available by this Act or prior Acts making appropriations for 
     the Department of State, foreign operations, and related 
     programs shall be available for a threshold program in a 
     country that is not currently a candidate country.
       In addition, for the administrative expenses of the MCC, 
     $102,400,000, of which up to $15,360,000 may remain available 
     until September 30, 2019: Provided, That of the funds 
     appropriated under this paragraph, not to exceed $100,000 may 
     be available for representation and entertainment expenses, 
     of which not to exceed $5,000 may be available for 
     entertainment expenses.

                       inter-american foundation

       For necessary expenses to carry out the functions of the 
     Inter-American Foundation in accordance with the provisions 
     of section 401 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1969, 
     $11,250,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019: 
     Provided, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, 
     not to exceed $1,000 may be available for representation 
     expenses.

              united states african development foundation

       For necessary expenses to carry out title V of the 
     International Security and Development Cooperation Act of 
     1980 (Public Law 96-533), $15,000,000, to remain available 
     until September 30, 2019, of which not to exceed $1,000 may 
     be available for representation expenses:  Provided, That 
     funds made available to grantees may be invested pending 
     expenditure for project purposes when authorized by the Board 
     of Directors of the United States African Development 
     Foundation (USADF): Provided further, That interest earned 
     shall be used only for the purposes for which the grant was 
     made: Provided further, That notwithstanding section 
     505(a)(2) of the African Development Foundation Act (22 
     U.S.C. 290h-3(a)(2)), in exceptional circumstances the Board 
     of Directors of the USADF may waive the $250,000 limitation 
     contained in that section with respect to a project and a 
     project may exceed the limitation by up to 10 percent if the 
     increase is due solely to foreign currency fluctuation: 
     Provided further, That the USADF shall submit a report to the 
     appropriate congressional committees after each time such 
     waiver authority is exercised: Provided further, That the 
     USADF may make rent or lease payments in advance from 
     appropriations available for such purpose for offices, 
     buildings, grounds, and quarters in Africa as may be 
     necessary to carry out its functions: Provided further, That 
     the USADF may maintain bank accounts outside the United 
     States Treasury and retain any interest earned on such 
     accounts, in furtherance of the purposes of the African 
     Development Foundation Act: Provided further, That the USADF 
     may not withdraw any appropriation from the Treasury prior to 
     the need of spending such funds for program purposes.

                       Department of the Treasury

               international affairs technical assistance

       For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
     section 129 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
     $25,455,000, of which $3,182,000 may remain available until 
     September 30, 2019.

                                TITLE IV

                   INTERNATIONAL SECURITY ASSISTANCE

                          Department of State

          international narcotics control and law enforcement

       For necessary expenses to carry out section 481 of the 
     Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $848,139,000, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2019: Provided, That the 
     Department of State may use the authority of section 608 of 
     the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, without regard to its 
     restrictions, to receive excess property from an agency of 
     the United States Government for the purpose of providing 
     such property to a foreign country or international 
     organization under chapter 8 of part I of such Act, subject 
     to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
     Appropriations: Provided further, That section 482(b) of the 
     Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall not apply to funds 
     appropriated under this heading, except that any funds made 
     available notwithstanding such section shall be subject to 
     the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
     Appropriations: Provided further, That funds appropriated 
     under this heading shall be made available to support 
     training and technical assistance for foreign law 
     enforcement, corrections, and other judicial authorities, 
     utilizing regional partners: Provided further, That funds 
     made available under this heading that are transferred to 
     another department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
     States Government pursuant to section 632(b) of the Foreign 
     Assistance Act of 1961 valued in excess of $5,000,000, and 
     any agreement made pursuant to section 632(a) of such Act, 
     shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of 
     the Committees on Appropriations.

    nonproliferation, anti-terrorism, demining and related programs

       For necessary expenses for nonproliferation, anti-
     terrorism, demining and related programs and activities, 
     $617,873,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019, 
     to carry out the provisions of chapter 8 of part II of the 
     Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for anti-terrorism assistance, 
     chapter 9 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
     section 504 of the FREEDOM Support Act, section 23 of the 
     Arms Export Control Act, or the Foreign Assistance Act of 
     1961 for demining activities, the clearance of unexploded 
     ordnance, the destruction of small arms, and related 
     activities, notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     including activities implemented through nongovernmental and 
     international organizations, and section 301 of the Foreign 
     Assistance Act of 1961 for a United States contribution to 
     the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty Preparatory 
     Commission, and for a voluntary contribution to the 
     International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA): Provided, That the 
     Secretary of State shall inform the appropriate congressional 
     committees of information regarding any separate arrangements 
     relating to the ``Road-map for the Clarification of Past and 
     Present Outstanding Issues Regarding Iran's Nuclear Program'' 
     between the IAEA and the Islamic Republic of Iran, in 
     classified form if necessary, if such information becomes 
     known to the Department of State:  Provided further, That 
     funds made available under this heading for the 
     Nonproliferation and Disarmament Fund shall be made 
     available, notwithstanding any other provision of law and 
     subject to prior consultation with, and the regular 
     notification procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations, 
     to promote bilateral and multilateral activities relating to 
     nonproliferation, disarmament, and weapons destruction, and 
     shall remain available until

[[Page H6950]]

     expended: Provided further, That such funds may also be used 
     for such countries other than the Independent States of the 
     former Soviet Union and international organizations when it 
     is in the national security interest of the United States to 
     do so: Provided further, That funds appropriated under this 
     heading may be made available for the IAEA unless the 
     Secretary of State determines that Israel is being denied its 
     right to participate in the activities of that Agency: 
     Provided further, That funds made available for conventional 
     weapons destruction programs, including demining and related 
     activities, in addition to funds otherwise available for such 
     purposes, may be used for administrative expenses related to 
     the operation and management of such programs and activities, 
     subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
     Committees on Appropriations.

                        peacekeeping operations

       For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
     section 551 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
     $135,041,000: Provided, That funds appropriated under this 
     heading may be used, notwithstanding section 660 of such Act, 
     to provide assistance to enhance the capacity of foreign 
     civilian security forces, including gendarmes, to participate 
     in peacekeeping operations: Provided further, That of the 
     funds appropriated under this heading, not less than 
     $31,000,000 shall be made available for a United States 
     contribution to the Multinational Force and Observers mission 
     in the Sinai: Provided further, That none of the funds 
     appropriated under this heading shall be obligated except as 
     provided through the regular notification procedures of the 
     Committees on Appropriations.

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

             international military education and training

       For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
     section 541 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
     $105,160,000, of which up to $11,000,000 may remain available 
     until September 30, 2019: Provided, That the civilian 
     personnel for whom military education and training may be 
     provided under this heading may include civilians who are not 
     members of a government whose participation would contribute 
     to improved civil-military relations, civilian control of the 
     military, or respect for human rights: Provided further, That 
     of the funds appropriated under this heading, not to exceed 
     $55,000 may be available for entertainment expenses.

                   foreign military financing program

       For necessary expenses for grants to enable the President 
     to carry out the provisions of section 23 of the Arms Export 
     Control Act, $5,625,863,000: Provided, That to expedite the 
     provision of assistance to foreign countries and 
     international organizations, the Secretary of State, 
     following consultation with the Committees on Appropriations 
     and subject to the regular notification procedures of such 
     Committees, may use the funds appropriated under this heading 
     to procure defense articles and services to enhance the 
     capacity of foreign security forces: Provided further, That 
     of the funds appropriated under this heading, not less than 
     $3,100,000,000 shall be available for grants only for Israel: 
     Provided further, That funds appropriated under this heading 
     for grants only for Israel shall be disbursed within 30 days 
     of enactment of this Act: Provided further, That to the 
     extent that the Government of Israel requests that funds be 
     used for such purposes, grants made available for Israel 
     under this heading shall, as agreed by the United States and 
     Israel, be available for advanced weapons systems, of which 
     not less than $815,300,000 shall be available for the 
     procurement in Israel of defense articles and defense 
     services, including research and development: Provided 
     further, That none of the funds made available under this 
     heading shall be made available to support or continue any 
     program initially funded under the authority of section 1206 
     of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2006 (Public Law 109-163; 119 Stat. 3456), section 2282 of 
     title 10, United States Code, section 333 of title 10, United 
     States Code, as added by section 1241 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 
     130 Stat. 2497), or any successor authorities, unless the 
     Secretary of State, in coordination with the Secretary of 
     Defense, has justified such program to the Committees on 
     Appropriations: Provided further, That funds appropriated or 
     otherwise made available under this heading shall be 
     nonrepayable notwithstanding any requirement in section 23 of 
     the Arms Export Control Act: Provided further, That funds 
     made available under this heading shall be obligated upon 
     apportionment in accordance with paragraph (5)(C) of section 
     1501(a) of title 31, United States Code.
       None of the funds made available under this heading shall 
     be available to finance the procurement of defense articles, 
     defense services, or design and construction services that 
     are not sold by the United States Government under the Arms 
     Export Control Act unless the foreign country proposing to 
     make such procurement has first signed an agreement with the 
     United States Government specifying the conditions under 
     which such procurement may be financed with such funds: 
     Provided, That all country and funding level increases in 
     allocations shall be submitted through the regular 
     notification procedures of section 7015 of this Act:  
     Provided further, That funds made available under this 
     heading may be used, notwithstanding any other provision of 
     law, for demining, the clearance of unexploded ordnance, and 
     related activities, and may include activities implemented 
     through nongovernmental and international organizations: 
     Provided further, That only those countries for which 
     assistance was justified for the ``Foreign Military Sales 
     Financing Program'' in the fiscal year 1989 congressional 
     presentation for security assistance programs may utilize 
     funds made available under this heading for procurement of 
     defense articles, defense services, or design and 
     construction services that are not sold by the United States 
     Government under the Arms Export Control Act: Provided 
     further, That funds appropriated under this heading shall be 
     expended at the minimum rate necessary to make timely payment 
     for defense articles and services: Provided further, That not 
     more than $80,000,000 of the funds appropriated under this 
     heading may be obligated for necessary expenses, including 
     the purchase of passenger motor vehicles for replacement only 
     for use outside of the United States, for the general costs 
     of administering military assistance and sales, except that 
     this limitation may be exceeded only through the regular 
     notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: 
     Provided further, That of the funds made available under this 
     heading for general costs of administering military 
     assistance and sales, not to exceed $4,000 may be available 
     for entertainment expenses and not to exceed $130,000 may be 
     available for representation expenses: Provided further, That 
     not more than $950,000,000 of funds realized pursuant to 
     section 21(e)(1)(A) of the Arms Export Control Act may be 
     obligated for expenses incurred by the Department of Defense 
     during fiscal year 2018 pursuant to section 43(b) of the Arms 
     Export Control Act, except that this limitation may be 
     exceeded only through the regular notification procedures of 
     the Committees on Appropriations.

                                TITLE V

                        MULTILATERAL ASSISTANCE

                  International Financial Institutions

       contribution to the international development association

       For payment to the International Development Association by 
     the Secretary of the Treasury, $658,661,000, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2019.

               contribution to the asian development fund

       For payment to the Asian Development Bank's Asian 
     Development Fund by the Secretary of the Treasury, 
     $47,395,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019.

              contribution to the african development bank

       For payment to the African Development Bank by the 
     Secretary of the Treasury for the United States share of the 
     paid-in portion of the increase in capital stock, 
     $32,418,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019.

              limitation on callable capital subscriptions

       The United States Governor of the African Development Bank 
     may subscribe without fiscal year limitation to the callable 
     capital portion of the United States share of such capital 
     stock in an amount not to exceed $507,860,808.

              contribution to the african development fund

       For payment to the African Development Fund by the 
     Secretary of the Treasury, $109,387,000, to remain available 
     until September 30, 2019.

  contribution to the international fund for agricultural development

       For payment to the International Fund for Agricultural 
     Development by the Secretary of the Treasury, $30,000,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2019.

                                TITLE VI

                    EXPORT AND INVESTMENT ASSISTANCE

                Export-import Bank of the United States

                           inspector general

       For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
     in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act 
     of 1978, as amended, $5,700,000, of which up to $855,000 may 
     remain available until September 30, 2019.

                            program account

       The Export-Import Bank of the United States is authorized 
     to make such expenditures within the limits of funds and 
     borrowing authority available to such corporation, and in 
     accordance with law, and to make such contracts and 
     commitments without regard to fiscal year limitations, as 
     provided by section 104 of the Government Corporation Control 
     Act, as may be necessary in carrying out the program for the 
     current fiscal year for such corporation: Provided, That none 
     of the funds available during the current fiscal year may be 
     used to make expenditures, contracts, or commitments for the 
     export of nuclear equipment, fuel, or technology to any 
     country, other than a nuclear-weapon state as defined in 
     Article IX of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear 
     Weapons eligible to receive economic or military assistance 
     under this Act, that has detonated a nuclear explosive after 
     the date of the enactment of this Act.

                        administrative expenses

       For administrative expenses to carry out the direct and 
     guaranteed loan and insurance programs, including hire of 
     passenger motor vehicles and services as authorized by 
     section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, and

[[Page H6951]]

     not to exceed $30,000 for official reception and 
     representation expenses for members of the Board of 
     Directors, not to exceed $95,500,000, of which up to 
     $14,325,000 may remain available until September 30, 2019: 
     Provided, That the Export-Import Bank (the Bank) may accept, 
     and use, payment or services provided by transaction 
     participants for legal, financial, or technical services in 
     connection with any transaction for which an application for 
     a loan, guarantee or insurance commitment has been made: 
     Provided further, That the Bank shall charge fees for 
     necessary expenses (including special services performed on a 
     contract or fee basis, but not including other personal 
     services) in connection with the collection of moneys owed 
     the Bank, repossession or sale of pledged collateral or other 
     assets acquired by the Bank in satisfaction of moneys owed 
     the Bank, or the investigation or appraisal of any property, 
     or the evaluation of the legal, financial, or technical 
     aspects of any transaction for which an application for a 
     loan, guarantee or insurance commitment has been made, or 
     systems infrastructure directly supporting transactions: 
     Provided further, That in addition to other funds 
     appropriated for administrative expenses, such fees shall be 
     credited to this account for such purposes, to remain 
     available until expended.

                           receipts collected

       Receipts collected pursuant to the Export-Import Bank Act 
     of 1945, as amended, and the Federal Credit Reform Act of 
     1990, as amended, in an amount not to exceed the amount 
     appropriated herein, shall be credited as offsetting 
     collections to this account: Provided, That the sums herein 
     appropriated from the General Fund shall be reduced on a 
     dollar-for-dollar basis by such offsetting collections so as 
     to result in a final fiscal year appropriation from the 
     General Fund estimated at $0.

                Overseas Private Investment Corporation

                           noncredit account

       The Overseas Private Investment Corporation is authorized 
     to make, without regard to fiscal year limitations, as 
     provided by section 9104 of title 31, United States Code, 
     such expenditures and commitments within the limits of funds 
     available to it and in accordance with law as may be 
     necessary: Provided, That the amount available for 
     administrative expenses to carry out the credit and insurance 
     programs (including an amount for official reception and 
     representation expenses which shall not exceed $35,000) shall 
     not exceed $60,800,000: Provided further, That project-
     specific transaction costs, including direct and indirect 
     costs incurred in claims settlements, and other direct costs 
     associated with services provided to specific investors or 
     potential investors pursuant to section 234 of the Foreign 
     Assistance Act of 1961, shall not be considered 
     administrative expenses for the purposes of this heading.

                            program account

       For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans as authorized 
     by section 234 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
     $10,000,000, to be derived by transfer from the Overseas 
     Private Investment Corporation Noncredit Account, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2020: Provided, That such 
     costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be 
     as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
     1974: Provided further, That funds so obligated in fiscal 
     year 2018 remain available for disbursement through 2026; 
     funds obligated in fiscal year 2019 remain available for 
     disbursement through 2027; and funds obligated in fiscal year 
     2020 remain available for disbursement through 2028: Provided 
     further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
     Overseas Private Investment Corporation is authorized to 
     undertake any program authorized by title IV of chapter 2 of 
     part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 in Iraq: 
     Provided further, That funds made available pursuant to the 
     authority of the previous proviso shall be subject to the 
     regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
     Appropriations.
       In addition, such sums as may be necessary for 
     administrative expenses to carry out the credit program may 
     be derived from amounts available for administrative expenses 
     to carry out the credit and insurance programs in the 
     Overseas Private Investment Corporation Noncredit Account and 
     merged with said account.

                      trade and development agency

       For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
     section 661 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
     $70,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019: 
     Provided, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, 
     not more than $5,000 may be available for representation and 
     entertainment expenses.

                               TITLE VII

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                      allowances and differentials

       Sec. 7001.  Funds appropriated under title I of this Act 
     shall be available, except as otherwise provided, for 
     allowances and differentials as authorized by subchapter 59 
     of title 5, United States Code; for services as authorized by 
     section 3109 of such title and for hire of passenger 
     transportation pursuant to section 1343(b) of title 31, 
     United States Code.

                      unobligated balances report

       Sec. 7002.  Any department or agency of the United States 
     Government to which funds are appropriated or otherwise made 
     available by this Act shall provide to the Committees on 
     Appropriations a quarterly accounting of cumulative 
     unobligated balances and obligated, but unexpended, balances 
     by program, project, and activity, and Treasury Account Fund 
     Symbol of all funds received by such department or agency in 
     fiscal year 2018 or any previous fiscal year, disaggregated 
     by fiscal year: Provided, That the report required by this 
     section shall be submitted not later than 30 days after the 
     end of each fiscal quarter and should specify by account the 
     amount of funds obligated pursuant to bilateral agreements 
     which have not been further sub-obligated.

                          consulting services

       Sec. 7003.  The expenditure of any appropriation under 
     title I of this Act for any consulting service through 
     procurement contract, pursuant to section 3109 of title 5, 
     United States Code, shall be limited to those contracts where 
     such expenditures are a matter of public record and available 
     for public inspection, except where otherwise provided under 
     existing law, or under existing Executive Order issued 
     pursuant to existing law.

                         diplomatic facilities

       Sec. 7004. (a) Capital Security Cost Sharing Information.--
     The Secretary of State shall promptly inform the Committees 
     on Appropriations of each instance in which a Federal 
     department or agency is delinquent in providing the full 
     amount of funding required by section 604(e) of the Secure 
     Embassy Construction and Counterterrorism Act of 1999 (22 
     U.S.C. 4865 note).
       (b) Exception.--Notwithstanding paragraph (2) of section 
     604(e) of the Secure Embassy Construction and 
     Counterterrorism Act of 1999 (as enacted into law by section 
     1000(a)(7) of Public Law 106-113 and contained in appendix G 
     of that Act), as amended by section 111 of the Department of 
     State Authorities Act, Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-323), 
     a project to construct a facility of the United States may 
     include office space or other accommodations for members of 
     the United States Marine Corps.
       (c) New Diplomatic Facilities.--For the purposes of 
     calculating the fiscal year 2018 costs of providing new 
     United States diplomatic facilities in accordance with 
     section 604(e) of the Secure Embassy Construction and 
     Counterterrorism Act of 1999 (22 U.S.C. 4865 note), the 
     Secretary of State, in consultation with the Director of the 
     Office of Management and Budget, shall determine the annual 
     program level and agency shares in a manner that is 
     proportional to the contribution of the Department of State 
     for this purpose.
       (d) Consultation and Notification Requirements.--Funds 
     appropriated by this Act and prior Acts making appropriations 
     for the Department of State, foreign operations, and related 
     programs, which may be made available for the acquisition of 
     property or award of construction contracts for overseas 
     United States diplomatic facilities during fiscal year 2018, 
     shall be subject to prior consultation with, and the regular 
     notification procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations: 
     Provided, That notifications pursuant to this subsection 
     shall include the information enumerated under the heading 
     ``Embassy Security, Construction, and Maintenance'' in the 
     report accompanying this Act.
       (e) Interim and Temporary Facilities Abroad.--
       (1) Funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
     ``Embassy Security, Construction, and Maintenance'' shall be 
     made available to address security vulnerabilities at interim 
     and temporary United States diplomatic facilities abroad, 
     including physical security upgrades and local guard 
     staffing.
       (2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
     opening, closure, or any significant modification to an 
     interim or temporary United States diplomatic facility shall 
     be subject to prior consultation with the appropriate 
     congressional committees and the regular notification 
     procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, except that 
     such consultation and notification may be waived if there is 
     a security risk to personnel.
       (f) Transfer of Funds Authority.--Funds appropriated under 
     the heading ``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'', including 
     for Worldwide Security Protection, and under the heading 
     ``Embassy Security, Construction, and Maintenance'' in titles 
     I and VIII of this Act may be transferred to, and merged 
     with, funds appropriated by such titles under such headings 
     if the Secretary of State determines and reports to the 
     Committees on Appropriations that to do so is necessary to 
     implement the recommendations of the Benghazi Accountability 
     Review Board, or to prevent or respond to security situations 
     and requirements, following consultation with, and subject to 
     the regular notification procedures of, such Committees: 
     Provided, That such transfer authority is in addition to any 
     transfer authority otherwise available under any other 
     provision of law.
       (g) Soft Targets.--Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
     heading ``Embassy Security, Construction, and Maintenance'' 
     shall be made available for security enhancements for soft 
     targets in accordance with section 29 of the State Department 
     Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2701).
       (h) Reports.--
       (1) None of the funds appropriated under the heading 
     ``Embassy Security, Construction, and Maintenance'' in this 
     Act and prior Acts making appropriations for the Department 
     of State, foreign operations, and related programs, made 
     available through Federal agency Capital Security Cost 
     Sharing

[[Page H6952]]

     contributions and reimbursements, or generated from the 
     proceeds of real property sales, other than from real 
     property sales located in London, United Kingdom, may be made 
     available for site acquisition and mitigation, planning, 
     design, or construction of the New London Embassy: Provided, 
     That the reporting requirement contained in section 
     7004(f)(2) of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, 
     and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2012 (division I of 
     Public Law 112-74) shall remain in effect during fiscal year 
     2018.
       (2) Within 45 days of enactment of this Act and every 4 
     months thereafter until September 30, 2019, the Secretary of 
     State shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations a 
     report on the new Mexico City Embassy and Beirut Embassy 
     projects: Provided, That such report shall include, for each 
     of the projects--
       (A) a detailed breakout of the project factors that formed 
     the basis of the initial cost estimate used to justify such 
     project to the Committees on Appropriations, as described 
     under the heading ``Embassy Security Construction and 
     Maintenance'' in the report accompanying this Act;
       (B) a comparison of the current project factors as compared 
     to the project factors submitted pursuant to subparagraph (A) 
     of this subsection, and an explanation of any changes; and
       (C) the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations on 
     project costs.

                           personnel actions

       Sec. 7005.  Any costs incurred by a department or agency 
     funded under title I of this Act resulting from personnel 
     actions taken in response to funding reductions included in 
     this Act shall be absorbed within the total budgetary 
     resources available under title I to such department or 
     agency: Provided, That the authority to transfer funds 
     between appropriations accounts as may be necessary to carry 
     out this section is provided in addition to authorities 
     included elsewhere in this Act: Provided further, That use of 
     funds to carry out this section shall be treated as a 
     reprogramming of funds under section 7015 of this Act.

                     department of state management

       Sec. 7006. (a) Financial Systems Improvement.--Funds 
     appropriated by this Act for the operations of the Department 
     of State under the headings ``Diplomatic and Consular 
     Programs'' and ``Capital Investment Fund'' shall be made 
     available to implement the recommendations contained in the 
     Foreign Assistance Data Review Findings Report (FADR) and the 
     Office of Inspector General (OIG) report entitled 
     ``Department Financial Systems Are Insufficient to Track and 
     Report on Foreign Assistance Funds'': Provided, That not 
     later than 45 days after enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
     of State shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations an 
     update to the plan required under section 7006 of the 
     Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
     Appropriations Act, 2017 (division J of Public Law 115-31) 
     for implementing the FADR and OIG recommendations: Provided 
     further, That such funds may not be obligated for 
     enhancements to, or expansions of, the Budget System 
     Modernization Financial System, Central Resource Management 
     System, Joint Financial Management System, or Foreign 
     Assistance Coordination and Tracking System until such 
     updated plan is submitted to the Committees on 
     Appropriations: Provided further, That such funds may not be 
     obligated for new, or expansion of existing, ad hoc 
     electronic systems to track commitments, obligations or 
     expenditures of funds unless the Secretary of State, 
     following consultation with the Chief Information Officer of 
     the Department of State, has reviewed and certified that such 
     new system or expansion is consistent with the FADR and OIG 
     recommendations.
       (b) Working Capital Fund.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
     or otherwise made available to the Department of State for 
     payments to the Working Capital Fund may only be used for the 
     service centers included in the Congressional Budget 
     Justification, Department of State, Foreign Operations, and 
     Related Programs, Fiscal Year 2018: Provided, That the 
     amounts for such service centers shall be the amounts 
     included in such budget justification, except as provided in 
     section 7015(b) of this Act: Provided further, That Federal 
     agency components shall be charged only for their direct 
     usage of each Working Capital Fund service: Provided further, 
     That prior to increasing the percentage charged to Department 
     of State bureaus and offices for procurement-related 
     activities, the Secretary of State shall include the proposed 
     increase in the Department of State budget justification or, 
     at least 60 days prior to the increase, provide the 
     Committees on Appropriations a justification for such 
     increase, including a detailed assessment of the cost and 
     benefit of the services provided by the procurement fee: 
     Provided further, That Federal agency components may only pay 
     for Working Capital Fund services that are consistent with 
     the purpose and authorities of such components: Provided 
     further, That the Working Capital Fund shall be paid in 
     advance or reimbursed at rates which will return the full 
     cost of each service.
       (c) Certification Requirement.--Prior to the initial 
     obligation of funds appropriated under titles III and IV of 
     this Act that are made available to a Department of State 
     bureau or office with responsibility for the oversight or 
     management of such funds, the Secretary of State shall 
     certify and report to the Committees on Appropriations, on an 
     individual bureau or office basis, that such bureau or office 
     is in compliance with Department and Federal financial 
     management policies, procedures and regulations, as 
     applicable: Provided, That if the Secretary is unable to make 
     such certification for an individual bureau or office, the 
     Secretary shall submit a plan and timeline to such Committees 
     detailing the steps to be taken to ensure such compliance.
       (d) Report on Sole Source Awards.--Not later than December 
     31, 2018, the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the 
     appropriate congressional committees detailing all sole-
     source awards made by the Department of State during the 
     previous fiscal year in excess of $2,000,000: Provided, That 
     such report should be posted on the Department of State Web 
     site.

        prohibition against direct funding for certain countries

       Sec. 7007.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available pursuant to titles III through VI of this Act 
     shall be obligated or expended to finance directly any 
     assistance or reparations for the governments of Cuba, North 
     Korea, Iran, or Syria: Provided, That for purposes of this 
     section, the prohibition on obligations or expenditures shall 
     include direct loans, credits, insurance, and guarantees of 
     the Export-Import Bank or its agents.

                              coups d'etat

       Sec. 7008.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available pursuant to titles III through VI of this Act 
     shall be obligated or expended to finance directly any 
     assistance to the government of any country whose duly 
     elected head of government is deposed by military coup d'etat 
     or decree or, after the date of enactment of this Act, a coup 
     d'etat or decree in which the military plays a decisive role: 
     Provided, That assistance may be resumed to such government 
     if the Secretary of State certifies and reports to the 
     appropriate congressional committees that subsequent to the 
     termination of assistance a democratically elected government 
     has taken office: Provided further, That the provisions of 
     this section shall not apply to assistance to promote 
     democratic elections or public participation in democratic 
     processes: Provided further, That funds made available 
     pursuant to the previous provisos shall be subject to the 
     regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
     Appropriations.

                      transfer of funds authority

       Sec. 7009. (a) Department of State and Broadcasting Board 
     of Governors.--
       (1) Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
     available for the current fiscal year for the Department of 
     State under title I of this Act may be transferred between, 
     and merged with, such appropriations, but no such 
     appropriation, except as otherwise specifically provided, 
     shall be increased by more than 10 percent by any such 
     transfers, and no such transfer may be made to increase the 
     appropriation under the heading ``Representation Expenses''.
       (2) Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
     available for the current fiscal year for the Broadcasting 
     Board of Governors under title I of this Act may be 
     transferred between, and merged with, such appropriations, 
     but no such appropriation, except as otherwise specifically 
     provided, shall be increased by more than 10 percent by any 
     such transfers.
       (3) Any transfer pursuant to this subsection shall be 
     treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 7015 of 
     this Act and shall not be available for obligation or 
     expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set 
     forth in that section.
       (b) Title VI Agencies.--Not to exceed 5 percent of any 
     appropriation other than for administrative expenses made 
     available for fiscal year 2018, for programs under title VI 
     of this Act may be transferred between such appropriations 
     for use for any of the purposes, programs, and activities for 
     which the funds in such receiving account may be used, but no 
     such appropriation, except as otherwise specifically 
     provided, shall be increased by more than 25 percent by any 
     such transfer: Provided, That the exercise of such authority 
     shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of 
     the Committees on Appropriations.
       (c) Limitation on Transfers of Funds Between Agencies.--
       (1) None of the funds made available under titles II 
     through V of this Act may be transferred to any department, 
     agency, or instrumentality of the United States Government, 
     except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer authority 
     provided in, this Act or any other appropriations Act.
       (2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), in addition to transfers 
     made by, or authorized elsewhere in, this Act, funds 
     appropriated by this Act to carry out the purposes of the 
     Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be allocated or 
     transferred to agencies of the United States Government 
     pursuant to the provisions of sections 109, 610, and 632 of 
     the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
       (3) Any agreement entered into by the United States Agency 
     for International Development or the Department of State with 
     any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
     States Government pursuant to section 632(b) of the Foreign 
     Assistance Act of 1961 valued in excess of $1,000,000 and any 
     agreement made pursuant to section 632(a) of such Act, with 
     funds appropriated by this Act or prior Acts making 
     appropriations for the Department of State, foreign

[[Page H6953]]

     operations, and related programs under the headings ``Global 
     Health Programs'', ``Development Assistance'', ``Economic 
     Support Fund'', and ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and 
     Central Asia'' shall be subject to the regular notification 
     procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided, 
     That the requirement in the previous sentence shall not apply 
     to agreements entered into between USAID and the Department 
     of State.
       (d) Transfer of Funds Between Accounts.--None of the funds 
     made available under titles II through V of this Act may be 
     obligated under an appropriations account to which such funds 
     were not appropriated, except for transfers specifically 
     provided for in this Act, unless the President, not less than 
     5 days prior to the exercise of any authority contained in 
     the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to transfer funds, 
     consults with and provides a written policy justification to 
     the Committees on Appropriations.
       (e) Audit of Inter-agency Transfers of Funds.--Any 
     agreement for the transfer or allocation of funds 
     appropriated by this Act or prior Acts making appropriations 
     for the Department of State, foreign operations and related 
     programs, entered into between the Department of State or 
     USAID and another agency of the United States Government 
     under the authority of section 632(a) of the Foreign 
     Assistance Act of 1961 or any comparable provision of law, 
     shall expressly provide that the Inspector General (IG) for 
     the agency receiving the transfer or allocation of such 
     funds, or other entity with audit responsibility if the 
     receiving agency does not have an IG, shall perform periodic 
     program and financial audits of the use of such funds and 
     report to the Department of State or USAID, as appropriate, 
     upon completion of such audits: Provided, That such audits 
     shall be transmitted to the Committees on Appropriations by 
     the Department of State or USAID, as appropriate: Provided 
     further, That funds transferred under such authority may be 
     made available for the cost of such audits.
       (f) Report.--Not later than 90 days after enactment of this 
     Act, the Secretary of State and the USAID Administrator shall 
     each submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations 
     detailing all transfers to another agency of the United 
     States Government made pursuant to sections 632(a) and 632(b) 
     of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 with funds provided in 
     the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related 
     Programs Appropriations Act, 2017 (division J of Public Law 
     115-31) as of the date of enactment of this Act: Provided, 
     That such reports shall include a list of each transfer made 
     pursuant to such sections with the respective funding level, 
     appropriation account, and the receiving agency.

              prohibition on certain operational expenses

       Sec. 7010. (a) First-class Travel.--None of the funds made 
     available by this Act may be used for first-class travel by 
     employees of United States Government departments and 
     agencies funded by this Act in contravention of section 301-
     10.122 through 301-10.124 of title 41, Code of Federal 
     Regulations.
       (b) Computer Networks.--None of the funds made available by 
     this Act for the operating expenses of any United States 
     Government department or agency may be used to establish or 
     maintain a computer network for use by such department or 
     agency unless such network has filters designed to block 
     access to sexually explicit Web sites: Provided, That nothing 
     in this subsection shall limit the use of funds necessary for 
     any Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement agency, 
     or any other entity carrying out the following activities: 
     criminal investigations, prosecutions, and adjudications; 
     administrative discipline; and the monitoring of such Web 
     sites undertaken as part of official business.
       (c) Prohibition on Promotion of Tobacco.--None of the funds 
     made available by this Act should be available to promote the 
     sale or export of tobacco or tobacco products, or to seek the 
     reduction or removal by any foreign country of restrictions 
     on the marketing of tobacco or tobacco products, except for 
     restrictions which are not applied equally to all tobacco or 
     tobacco products of the same type.

                         availability of funds

       Sec. 7011.  No part of any appropriation contained in this 
     Act shall remain available for obligation after the 
     expiration of the current fiscal year unless expressly so 
     provided by this Act: Provided, That funds appropriated for 
     the purposes of chapters 1 and 8 of part I, section 661, 
     chapters 4, 5, 6, 8, and 9 of part II of the Foreign 
     Assistance Act of 1961, section 23 of the Arms Export Control 
     Act, and funds provided under the headings ``Development 
     Credit Authority'' and ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and 
     Central Asia'' shall remain available for an additional 4 
     years from the date on which the availability of such funds 
     would otherwise have expired, if such funds are initially 
     obligated before the expiration of their respective periods 
     of availability contained in this Act: Provided further, That 
     the availability of funds pursuant to the previous proviso 
     shall not be applicable to such funds until the Secretary of 
     State submits the reports required under section 7011 of the 
     Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
     Appropriations Act, 2016 (division K of Public Law 114-113) 
     and under section 7011 of the Department of State, Foreign 
     Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2017 
     (division J of Public Law 115-31):  Provided further, That 
     the Secretary of State shall provide a report to the 
     Committees on Appropriations not later than October 30, 2018, 
     detailing by account and source year, the use of this 
     authority during the previous fiscal year.

            limitation on assistance to countries in default

       Sec. 7012.  No part of any appropriation provided under 
     titles III through VI in this Act shall be used to furnish 
     assistance to the government of any country which is in 
     default during a period in excess of 1 calendar year in 
     payment to the United States of principal or interest on any 
     loan made to the government of such country by the United 
     States pursuant to a program for which funds are appropriated 
     under this Act unless the President determines, following 
     consultations with the Committees on Appropriations, that 
     assistance for such country is in the national interest of 
     the United States.

          prohibition on taxation of united states assistance

       Sec. 7013. (a) Prohibition on Taxation.--None of the funds 
     appropriated under titles III through VI of this Act may be 
     made available to provide assistance for a foreign country 
     under a new bilateral agreement governing the terms and 
     conditions under which such assistance is to be provided 
     unless such agreement includes a provision stating that 
     assistance provided by the United States shall be exempt from 
     taxation, or reimbursed, by the foreign government, and the 
     Secretary of State and the Administrator of the United States 
     Agency for International Development shall expeditiously seek 
     to negotiate amendments to existing bilateral agreements, as 
     necessary, to conform with this requirement.
       (b) Notification and Reimbursement of Foreign Taxes.--An 
     amount equivalent to 200 percent of the total taxes assessed 
     during fiscal year 2018 on funds appropriated by this Act and 
     prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, 
     foreign operations, and related programs by a foreign 
     government or entity against United States assistance 
     programs, either directly or through grantees, contractors, 
     and subcontractors shall be withheld from obligation from 
     funds appropriated for assistance for fiscal year 2019 and 
     for prior fiscal years and allocated for the central 
     government of such country or for the West Bank and Gaza 
     program if, not later than September 30, 2019, such taxes 
     have not been reimbursed: Provided, That the Secretary of 
     State shall report to the Committees on Appropriations by 
     such date on the foreign governments and entities that have 
     not reimbursed such taxes, including any amount of funds 
     withheld pursuant to this subsection.
       (c) De Minimis Exception.--Foreign taxes of a de minimis 
     nature shall not be subject to the provisions of subsection 
     (b).
       (d) Reprogramming of Funds.--Funds withheld from obligation 
     for each foreign government or entity pursuant to subsection 
     (b) shall be reprogrammed for assistance for countries which 
     do not assess taxes on United States assistance or which have 
     an effective arrangement that is providing substantial 
     reimbursement of such taxes, and that can reasonably 
     accommodate such assistance in a programmatically responsible 
     manner.
       (e) Determinations.--
       (1) The provisions of this section shall not apply to any 
     foreign government or entity that assesses such taxes if the 
     Secretary of State reports to the Committees on 
     Appropriations that--
       (A) such foreign government or entity has an effective 
     arrangement that is providing substantial reimbursement of 
     such taxes; or
       (B) the foreign policy interests of the United States 
     outweigh the purpose of this section to ensure that United 
     States assistance is not subject to taxation.
       (2) The Secretary of State shall consult with the 
     Committees on Appropriations at least 15 days prior to 
     exercising the authority of this subsection with regard to 
     any foreign government or entity.
       (f) Implementation.--The Secretary of State shall issue 
     rules, regulations, or policy guidance, as appropriate, to 
     implement the prohibition against the taxation of assistance 
     contained in this section.
       (g) Definitions.--As used in this section--
       (1) the term ``bilateral agreement'' refers to a framework 
     bilateral agreement between the Government of the United 
     States and the government of the country receiving assistance 
     that describes the privileges and immunities applicable to 
     United States foreign assistance for such country generally, 
     or an individual agreement between the Government of the 
     United States and such government that describes, among other 
     things, the treatment for tax purposes that will be accorded 
     the United States assistance provided under that agreement; 
     and
       (2) the term ``taxes and taxation'' shall include value 
     added taxes and customs duties but shall not include 
     individual income taxes assessed to local staff.
       (h) Report.--The Secretary of State, in consultation with 
     the heads of other relevant departments or agencies of the 
     United States Government, shall submit an update to the 
     report required pursuant to section 7013(h) of the Department 
     of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
     Appropriations Act, 2017 (division J of Public Law 115-31).

                         reservations of funds

       Sec. 7014. (a) Reprogramming.--Funds appropriated under 
     titles III through VI of this

[[Page H6954]]

     Act which are specifically designated may be reprogrammed for 
     other programs within the same account notwithstanding the 
     designation if compliance with the designation is made 
     impossible by operation of any provision of this or any other 
     Act: Provided, That any such reprogramming shall be subject 
     to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
     Appropriations: Provided further, That assistance that is 
     reprogrammed pursuant to this subsection shall be made 
     available under the same terms and conditions as originally 
     provided.
       (b) Extension of Availability.--In addition to the 
     authority contained in subsection (a), the original period of 
     availability of funds appropriated by this Act and 
     administered by the Department of State or the United States 
     Agency for International Development that are specifically 
     designated for particular programs or activities by this or 
     any other Act may be extended for an additional fiscal year 
     if the Secretary of State or the USAID Administrator, as 
     appropriate, determines and reports promptly to the 
     Committees on Appropriations that the termination of 
     assistance to a country or a significant change in 
     circumstances makes it unlikely that such designated funds 
     can be obligated during the original period of availability:  
     Provided, That such designated funds that continue to be 
     available for an additional fiscal year shall be obligated 
     only for the purpose of such designation.
       (c) Other Acts.--Ceilings and specifically designated 
     funding levels contained in this Act shall not be applicable 
     to funds or authorities appropriated or otherwise made 
     available by any subsequent Act unless such Act specifically 
     so directs: Provided, That specifically designated funding 
     levels or minimum funding requirements contained in any other 
     Act shall not be applicable to funds appropriated by this 
     Act.

                       notification requirements

       Sec. 7015. (a) Notification of Changes in Programs, 
     Projects, and Activities.--None of the funds made available 
     in titles I and II of this Act or prior Acts making 
     appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
     operations, and related programs to the departments and 
     agencies funded by this Act that remain available for 
     obligation in fiscal year 2018, or provided from any accounts 
     in the Treasury of the United States derived by the 
     collection of fees or of currency reflows or other offsetting 
     collections, or made available by transfer, to the 
     departments and agencies funded by this Act, shall be 
     available for obligation to--
       (1) create new programs;
       (2) eliminate a program, project, or activity;
       (3) close, suspend, open, or reopen a mission or post;
       (4) create, close, reorganize, or rename bureaus, centers, 
     or offices; or
       (5) contract out or privatize any functions or activities 
     presently performed by Federal employees;
     unless previously justified to the Committees on 
     Appropriations or such Committees are notified 15 days in 
     advance of such obligation.
       (b) Notification of Reprogramming of Funds.--None of the 
     funds provided under titles I and II of this Act or prior 
     Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, 
     foreign operations, and related programs, to the departments 
     and agencies funded under titles I and II of this Act that 
     remain available for obligation in fiscal year 2018, or 
     provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United 
     States derived by the collection of fees available to the 
     department and agency funded under title I of this Act, shall 
     be available for obligation or expenditure for activities, 
     programs, or projects through a reprogramming of funds in 
     excess of $1,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less, that--
       (1) augments or changes existing programs, projects, or 
     activities;
       (2) relocates an existing office or employees;
       (3) reduces by 10 percent funding for any existing program, 
     project, or activity, or numbers of personnel by 10 percent 
     as approved by Congress; or
       (4) results from any general savings, including savings 
     from a reduction in personnel, which would result in a change 
     in existing programs, activities, or projects as approved by 
     Congress;
     unless the Committees on Appropriations are notified 15 days 
     in advance of such reprogramming of funds.
       (c) Notification Requirement.--None of the funds made 
     available by this Act under the headings ``Global Health 
     Programs'', ``Development Assistance'', ``Trade and 
     Development Agency'', ``International Narcotics Control and 
     Law Enforcement'', ``Economic Support Fund'', ``Democracy 
     Fund'', ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'', 
     ``Peacekeeping Operations'', ``Nonproliferation, Anti-
     terrorism, Demining and Related Programs'', ``Millennium 
     Challenge Corporation'', ``Foreign Military Financing 
     Program'', ``International Military Education and Training'', 
     and ``Peace Corps'', shall be available for obligation for 
     activities, programs, projects, type of materiel assistance, 
     countries, or other operations not justified or in excess of 
     the amount justified to the Committees on Appropriations for 
     obligation under any of these specific headings unless the 
     Committees on Appropriations are notified 15 days in advance 
     of such commitment: Provided, That the President shall not 
     enter into any commitment of funds appropriated for the 
     purposes of section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act for the 
     provision of major defense equipment, other than conventional 
     ammunition, or other major defense items defined to be 
     aircraft, ships, missiles, or combat vehicles, not previously 
     justified to Congress or 20 percent in excess of the 
     quantities justified to Congress unless the Committees on 
     Appropriations are notified 15 days in advance of such 
     commitment: Provided further, That requirements of this 
     subsection or any similar provision of this or any other Act 
     shall not apply to any reprogramming for an activity, 
     program, or project for which funds are appropriated under 
     titles III through VI of this Act of less than 10 percent of 
     the amount previously justified to Congress for obligation 
     for such activity, program, or project for the current fiscal 
     year: Provided further, That any notification submitted 
     pursuant to subsection (f) of this section shall include 
     information (if known on the date of transmittal of such 
     notification) on the use of notwithstanding authority: 
     Provided further, That if subsequent to the notification of 
     assistance it becomes necessary to rely on notwithstanding 
     authority, the Committees on Appropriations should be 
     informed at the earliest opportunity and to the extent 
     practicable.
       (d) Notification of Transfer of Funds.--Notwithstanding any 
     other provision of law, with the exception of funds 
     transferred to, and merged with, funds appropriated under 
     title I of this Act, funds transferred by the Department of 
     Defense to the Department of State and the United States 
     Agency for International Development for assistance for 
     foreign countries and international organizations, and funds 
     made available for programs previously authorized under 
     section 1206 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2006 (Public Law 109-163; 119 Stat. 3456), 
     section 2282 of title 10, United States Code, section 333 of 
     title 10, United States Code, as added by section 1241 of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
     (Public Law 114-328), or any successor authorities, shall be 
     subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
     Committees on Appropriations.
       (e) Waiver.--The requirements of this section or any 
     similar provision of this Act or any other Act, including any 
     prior Act requiring notification in accordance with the 
     regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
     Appropriations, may be waived if failure to do so would pose 
     a substantial risk to human health or welfare: Provided, That 
     in case of any such waiver, notification to the Committees on 
     Appropriations shall be provided as early as practicable, but 
     in no event later than 3 days after taking the action to 
     which such notification requirement was applicable, in the 
     context of the circumstances necessitating such waiver: 
     Provided further, That any notification provided pursuant to 
     such a waiver shall contain an explanation of the emergency 
     circumstances.
       (f) Country Notification Requirements.--None of the funds 
     appropriated under titles III through VI of this Act may be 
     obligated or expended for assistance for Afghanistan, 
     Bolivia, Burma, Cambodia, Colombia, Cuba, Ecuador, El 
     Salvador, Ethiopia, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Iran, Iraq, 
     Lebanon, Libya, Pakistan, Philippines, the Russian 
     Federation, Somalia, South Sudan, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syria, 
     Uzbekistan, Venezuela, Yemen, and Zimbabwe except as provided 
     through the regular notification procedures of the Committees 
     on Appropriations.
       (g) Trust Funds.--Funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available in title III of this Act and prior Acts making 
     funds available for the Department of State, foreign 
     operations, and related programs that are made available for 
     a trust fund held by an international financial institution 
     as defined by section 7034(o)(3) of this Act shall be subject 
     to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
     Appropriations: Provided, That such notification shall 
     include the information specified under this section in the 
     report accompanying this Act.
       (h) Withholding of Funds.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
     under titles III and IV that are withheld from obligation or 
     otherwise not programmed as a result of application of a 
     provision of law in this or any other Act shall, if 
     reprogrammed, be subject to the regular notification 
     procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

                notification on excess defense equipment

       Sec. 7016.  Prior to providing excess Department of Defense 
     articles in accordance with section 516(a) of the Foreign 
     Assistance Act of 1961, the Department of Defense shall 
     notify the Committees on Appropriations to the same extent 
     and under the same conditions as other committees pursuant to 
     subsection (f) of that section: Provided, That before issuing 
     a letter of offer to sell excess defense articles under the 
     Arms Export Control Act, the Department of Defense shall 
     notify the Committees on Appropriations in accordance with 
     the regular notification procedures of such Committees if 
     such defense articles are significant military equipment (as 
     defined in section 47(9) of the Arms Export Control Act) or 
     are valued (in terms of original acquisition cost) at 
     $7,000,000 or more, or if notification is required elsewhere 
     in this Act for the use of appropriated funds for specific 
     countries that would receive such excess defense articles: 
     Provided further, That such Committees shall also be informed 
     of the original acquisition cost of such defense articles.

[[Page H6955]]

  


limitation on availability of funds for international organizations and 
                                programs

       Sec. 7017.  Subject to the regular notification procedures 
     of the Committees on Appropriations, funds appropriated under 
     titles I and III through V of this Act, which are returned or 
     not made available for organizations and programs because of 
     the implementation of section 307(a) of the Foreign 
     Assistance Act of 1961, shall remain available for obligation 
     until September 30, 2019: Provided, That the requirement to 
     withhold funds for programs in Burma under section 307(a) of 
     the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall not apply to funds 
     appropriated by this Act.

   prohibition on funding for abortions and involuntary sterilization

       Sec. 7018.  None of the funds made available to carry out 
     part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may 
     be used to pay for the performance of abortions as a method 
     of family planning or to motivate or coerce any person to 
     practice abortions. None of the funds made available to carry 
     out part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, 
     may be used to pay for the performance of involuntary 
     sterilization as a method of family planning or to coerce or 
     provide any financial incentive to any person to undergo 
     sterilizations. None of the funds made available to carry out 
     part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may 
     be used to pay for any biomedical research which relates in 
     whole or in part, to methods of, or the performance of, 
     abortions or involuntary sterilization as a means of family 
     planning. None of the funds made available to carry out part 
     I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may be 
     obligated or expended for any country or organization if the 
     President certifies that the use of these funds by any such 
     country or organization would violate any of the above 
     provisions related to abortions and involuntary 
     sterilizations.

                              allocations

       Sec. 7019. (a) Allocation Tables.--Subject to subsection 
     (b), funds appropriated by this Act under titles III through 
     V shall be made available in the amounts specifically 
     designated in the respective tables included in the report 
     accompanying this Act: Provided, That such designated amounts 
     for foreign countries and international organizations shall 
     serve as the amounts for such countries and international 
     organizations transmitted to Congress in the report required 
     by section 653(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
       (b) Authorized Deviations.--Unless otherwise provided for 
     by this Act, the Secretary of State and the Administrator of 
     the United States Agency for International Development, as 
     applicable, may only deviate up to 5 percent from the amounts 
     specifically designated in the respective tables included in 
     the report accompanying this Act: Provided, That such 
     percentage may be exceeded only to respond to significant, 
     exigent, or unforeseen events, or to address other 
     exceptional circumstances directly related to the national 
     interest: Provided further, That deviations pursuant to the 
     previous proviso shall be subject to prior consultation with, 
     and the regular notification procedures of, the Committees on 
     Appropriations.
       (c) Limitation.--For specifically designated amounts that 
     are included, pursuant to subsection (a), in the report 
     required by section 653(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
     1961, no deviations authorized by subsection (b) may take 
     place until submission of such report.
       (d) Exceptions.--Subsections (a) and (b) shall not apply 
     to--
       (1) amounts designated for ``International Military 
     Education and Training'' in the respective tables included in 
     the report accompanying this Act; and
       (2) funds for which the initial period of availability has 
     expired.

               representation and entertainment expenses

       Sec. 7020. (a) Uses of Funds.--Each Federal department, 
     agency, or entity funded in titles I or II of this Act, and 
     the Department of the Treasury and independent agencies 
     funded in titles III or VI of this Act, shall take steps to 
     ensure that domestic and overseas representation and 
     entertainment expenses further official agency business and 
     United States foreign policy interests--
       (1) are primarily for fostering relations outside of the 
     Executive Branch;
       (2) are principally for meals and events of a protocol 
     nature;
       (3) are not for employee-only events; and
       (4) do not include activities that are substantially of a 
     recreational character.
       (b) Limitations.--None of the funds appropriated or 
     otherwise made available by this Act under the headings 
     ``International Military Education and Training'' or 
     ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' for Informational 
     Program activities or under the headings ``Global Health 
     Programs'', ``Development Assistance'', ``Economic Support 
     Fund'', and ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central 
     Asia'' may be obligated or expended to pay for--
       (1) alcoholic beverages; or
       (2) entertainment expenses for activities that are 
     substantially of a recreational character, including but not 
     limited to entrance fees at sporting events, theatrical and 
     musical productions, and amusement parks.

   prohibition on assistance to governments supporting international 
                               terrorism

       Sec. 7021. (a) Lethal Military Equipment Exports.--
       (1) Prohibition.--None of the funds appropriated or 
     otherwise made available by titles III through VI of this Act 
     may be made available to any foreign government which 
     provides lethal military equipment to a country the 
     government of which the Secretary of State has determined 
     supports international terrorism for purposes of section 6(j) 
     of the Export Administration Act of 1979 as continued in 
     effect pursuant to the International Emergency Economic 
     Powers Act: Provided, That the prohibition under this section 
     with respect to a foreign government shall terminate 12 
     months after that government ceases to provide such military 
     equipment: Provided further, That this section applies with 
     respect to lethal military equipment provided under a 
     contract entered into after October 1, 1997.
       (2) Determination.--Assistance restricted by paragraph (1) 
     or any other similar provision of law, may be furnished if 
     the President determines that to do so is important to the 
     national interest of the United States.
       (3) Report.--Whenever the President makes a determination 
     pursuant to paragraph (2), the President shall submit to the 
     Committees on Appropriations a report with respect to the 
     furnishing of such assistance, including a detailed 
     explanation of the assistance to be provided, the estimated 
     dollar amount of such assistance, and an explanation of how 
     the assistance furthers United States national interest.
       (b) Bilateral Assistance.--
       (1) Limitations.--Funds appropriated for bilateral 
     assistance in titles III through VI of this Act and funds 
     appropriated under any such title in prior Acts making 
     appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
     operations, and related programs, shall not be made available 
     to any foreign government which the President determines--
       (A) grants sanctuary from prosecution to any individual or 
     group which has committed an act of international terrorism;
       (B) otherwise supports international terrorism; or
       (C) is controlled by an organization designated as a 
     terrorist organization under section 219 of the Immigration 
     and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189).
       (2) Waiver.--The President may waive the application of 
     paragraph (1) to a government if the President determines 
     that national security or humanitarian reasons justify such 
     waiver: Provided, That the President shall publish each such 
     waiver in the Federal Register and, at least 15 days before 
     the waiver takes effect, shall notify the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the waiver (including the justification for 
     the waiver) in accordance with the regular notification 
     procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

                       authorization requirements

       Sec. 7022.  Funds appropriated by this Act, except funds 
     appropriated under the heading ``Trade and Development 
     Agency'', may be obligated and expended notwithstanding 
     section 10 of Public Law 91-672 (22 U.S.C. 2412), section 15 
     of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 
     U.S.C. 2680), section 313 of the Foreign Relations 
     Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 (22 U.S.C. 
     6212), and section 504(a)(1) of the National Security Act of 
     1947 (50 U.S.C. 3094(a)(1)).

              definition of program, project, and activity

       Sec. 7023.  For the purpose of titles II through VI of this 
     Act ``program, project, and activity'' shall be defined at 
     the appropriations Act account level and shall include all 
     appropriations and authorizations Acts funding directives, 
     ceilings, and limitations with the exception that for the 
     following accounts: ``Economic Support Fund'', ``Assistance 
     for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'', and ``Foreign 
     Military Financing Program'', ``program, project, and 
     activity'' shall also be considered to include country, 
     regional, and central program level funding within each such 
     account; and for the development assistance accounts of the 
     United States Agency for International Development, 
     ``program, project, and activity'' shall also be considered 
     to include central, country, regional, and program level 
     funding, either as--
       (1) justified to Congress; or
       (2) allocated by the Executive Branch in accordance with a 
     report, to be provided to the Committees on Appropriations 
     within 30 days of the enactment of this Act, as required by 
     section 653(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 or as 
     modified pursuant to section 7019 of this Act.

 authorities for the peace corps, inter-american foundation and united 
                 states african development foundation

       Sec. 7024.  Unless expressly provided to the contrary, 
     provisions of this or any other Act, including provisions 
     contained in prior Acts authorizing or making appropriations 
     for the Department of State, foreign operations, and related 
     programs, shall not be construed to prohibit activities 
     authorized by or conducted under the Peace Corps Act, the 
     Inter-American Foundation Act or the African Development 
     Foundation Act: Provided, That prior to conducting activities 
     in a country for which assistance is prohibited, the agency 
     shall consult with the Committees on Appropriations and 
     report to such Committees within 15 days of taking such 
     action.

                commerce, trade and surplus commodities

       Sec. 7025. (a) World Markets.--None of the funds 
     appropriated or made available pursuant to titles III through 
     VI of this Act for direct assistance and none of the funds

[[Page H6956]]

     otherwise made available to the Export-Import Bank and the 
     Overseas Private Investment Corporation shall be obligated or 
     expended to finance any loan, any assistance, or any other 
     financial commitments for establishing or expanding 
     production of any commodity for export by any country other 
     than the United States, if the commodity is likely to be in 
     surplus on world markets at the time the resulting productive 
     capacity is expected to become operative and if the 
     assistance will cause substantial injury to United States 
     producers of the same, similar, or competing commodity: 
     Provided, That such prohibition shall not apply to the 
     Export-Import Bank if in the judgment of its Board of 
     Directors the benefits to industry and employment in the 
     United States are likely to outweigh the injury to United 
     States producers of the same, similar, or competing 
     commodity, and the Chairman of the Board so notifies the 
     Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That this 
     subsection shall not prohibit--
       (1) activities in a country that is eligible for assistance 
     from the International Development Association, is not 
     eligible for assistance from the International Bank for 
     Reconstruction and Development, and does not export on a 
     consistent basis the agricultural commodity with respect to 
     which assistance is furnished; or
       (2) activities in a country the President determines is 
     recovering from widespread conflict, a humanitarian crisis, 
     or a complex emergency.
       (b) Exports.--None of the funds appropriated by this or any 
     other Act to carry out chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign 
     Assistance Act of 1961 shall be available for any testing or 
     breeding feasibility study, variety improvement or 
     introduction, consultancy, publication, conference, or 
     training in connection with the growth or production in a 
     foreign country of an agricultural commodity for export which 
     would compete with a similar commodity grown or produced in 
     the United States: Provided, That this subsection shall not 
     prohibit--
       (1) activities designed to increase food security in 
     developing countries where such activities will not have a 
     significant impact on the export of agricultural commodities 
     of the United States;
       (2) research activities intended primarily to benefit 
     United States producers;
       (3) activities in a country that is eligible for assistance 
     from the International Development Association, is not 
     eligible for assistance from the International Bank for 
     Reconstruction and Development, and does not export on a 
     consistent basis the agricultural commodity with respect to 
     which assistance is furnished; or
       (4) activities in a country the President determines is 
     recovering from widespread conflict, a humanitarian crisis, 
     or a complex emergency.
       (c) International Financial Institutions.--The Secretary of 
     the Treasury shall instruct the United States executive 
     directors of the international financial institutions, as 
     defined in section 7034(o)(3) of this Act, to use the voice 
     and vote of the United States to oppose any assistance by 
     such institutions, using funds appropriated or made available 
     by this Act, for the production or extraction of any 
     commodity or mineral for export, if it is in surplus on world 
     markets and if the assistance will cause substantial injury 
     to United States producers of the same, similar, or competing 
     commodity.

                           separate accounts

       Sec. 7026. (a) Separate Accounts for Local Currencies.--
       (1) Agreements.--If assistance is furnished to the 
     government of a foreign country under chapters 1 and 10 of 
     part I or chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act 
     of 1961 under agreements which result in the generation of 
     local currencies of that country, the Administrator of the 
     United States Agency for International Development shall--
       (A) require that local currencies be deposited in a 
     separate account established by that government;
       (B) enter into an agreement with that government which sets 
     forth--
       (i) the amount of the local currencies to be generated; and
       (ii) the terms and conditions under which the currencies so 
     deposited may be utilized, consistent with this section; and
       (C) establish by agreement with that government the 
     responsibilities of USAID and that government to monitor and 
     account for deposits into and disbursements from the separate 
     account.
       (2) Uses of local currencies.--As may be agreed upon with 
     the foreign government, local currencies deposited in a 
     separate account pursuant to subsection (a), or an equivalent 
     amount of local currencies, shall be used only--
       (A) to carry out chapter 1 or 10 of part I or chapter 4 of 
     part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (as the case 
     may be), for such purposes as--
       (i) project and sector assistance activities; or
       (ii) debt and deficit financing; or
       (B) for the administrative requirements of the United 
     States Government.
       (3) Programming accountability.--USAID shall take all 
     necessary steps to ensure that the equivalent of the local 
     currencies disbursed pursuant to subsection (a)(2)(A) from 
     the separate account established pursuant to subsection 
     (a)(1) are used for the purposes agreed upon pursuant to 
     subsection (a)(2).
       (4) Termination of assistance programs.--Upon termination 
     of assistance to a country under chapter 1 or 10 of part I or 
     chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
     (as the case may be), any unencumbered balances of funds 
     which remain in a separate account established pursuant to 
     subsection (a) shall be disposed of for such purposes as may 
     be agreed to by the government of that country and the United 
     States Government.
       (5) Reporting requirement.--The USAID Administrator shall 
     report as part of the congressional budget justification 
     submitted to the Committees on Appropriations on the use of 
     local currencies for the administrative requirements of the 
     United States Government as authorized in subsection 
     (a)(2)(B), and such report shall include the amount of local 
     currency (and United States dollar equivalent) used or to be 
     used for such purpose in each applicable country.
       (b) Separate Accounts for Cash Transfers.--
       (1) In general.--If assistance is made available to the 
     government of a foreign country, under chapter 1 or 10 of 
     part I or chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act 
     of 1961, as cash transfer assistance or as nonproject sector 
     assistance, that country shall be required to maintain such 
     funds in a separate account and not commingle with any other 
     funds.
       (2) Applicability of other provisions of law.--Such funds 
     may be obligated and expended notwithstanding provisions of 
     law which are inconsistent with the nature of this assistance 
     including provisions which are referenced in the Joint 
     Explanatory Statement of the Committee of Conference 
     accompanying House Joint Resolution 648 (House Report No. 98-
     1159).
       (3) Notification.--At least 15 days prior to obligating any 
     such cash transfer or nonproject sector assistance, the 
     President shall submit a notification through the regular 
     notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, 
     which shall include a detailed description of how the funds 
     proposed to be made available will be used, with a discussion 
     of the United States interests that will be served by such 
     assistance (including, as appropriate, a description of the 
     economic policy reforms that will be promoted by such 
     assistance).
       (4) Exemption.--Nonproject sector assistance funds may be 
     exempt from the requirements of paragraph (1) only through 
     the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
     Appropriations.

                       eligibility for assistance

       Sec. 7027. (a) Assistance Through Nongovernmental 
     Organizations.--Restrictions contained in this or any other 
     Act with respect to assistance for a country shall not be 
     construed to restrict assistance in support of programs of 
     nongovernmental organizations from funds appropriated by this 
     Act to carry out the provisions of chapters 1, 10, 11, and 12 
     of part I and chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance 
     Act of 1961 and from funds appropriated under the heading 
     ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'': 
     Provided, That before using the authority of this subsection 
     to furnish assistance in support of programs of 
     nongovernmental organizations, the President shall notify the 
     Committees on Appropriations pursuant to the regular 
     notification procedures, including a description of the 
     program to be assisted, the assistance to be provided, and 
     the reasons for furnishing such assistance: Provided further, 
     That nothing in this subsection shall be construed to alter 
     any existing statutory prohibitions against abortion or 
     involuntary sterilizations contained in this or any other 
     Act.
       (b) Public Law 480.--During fiscal year 2018, restrictions 
     contained in this or any other Act with respect to assistance 
     for a country shall not be construed to restrict assistance 
     under the Food for Peace Act (Public Law 83-480): Provided, 
     That none of the funds appropriated to carry out title I of 
     such Act and made available pursuant to this subsection may 
     be obligated or expended except as provided through the 
     regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
     Appropriations.
       (c) Exception.--This section shall not apply--
       (1) with respect to section 620A of the Foreign Assistance 
     Act of 1961 or any comparable provision of law prohibiting 
     assistance to countries that support international terrorism; 
     or
       (2) with respect to section 116 of the Foreign Assistance 
     Act of 1961 or any comparable provision of law prohibiting 
     assistance to the government of a country that violates 
     internationally recognized human rights.

                           local competition

       Sec. 7028. (a) Requirements for Exceptions to Competition 
     for Local Entities.--Funds appropriated by this Act that are 
     made available to the United States Agency for International 
     Development may only be made available for limited 
     competitions through local entities if--
       (1) prior to the determination to limit competition to 
     local entities, USAID has--
       (A) assessed the level of local capacity to effectively 
     implement, manage, and account for programs included in such 
     competition; and
       (B) documented the written results of the assessment and 
     decisions made; and
       (2) prior to making an award after limiting competition to 
     local entities--

[[Page H6957]]

       (A) each successful local entity has been determined to be 
     responsible in accordance with USAID guidelines; and
       (B) effective monitoring and evaluation systems are in 
     place to ensure that award funding is used for its intended 
     purposes; and
       (3) no level of acceptable fraud is assumed.
       (b) Reporting Requirement.--In addition to the requirements 
     of subsection (a)(1), the USAID Administrator shall report to 
     the appropriate congressional committees not later than 45 
     days after the end of fiscal year 2018 on all awards subject 
     to limited or no competition for local entities: Provided, 
     That such report should be posted on the USAID Web site: 
     Provided further, That the requirements of this subsection 
     shall only apply to awards in excess of $3,000,000 and sole 
     source awards to local entities in excess of $2,000,000.

                  international financial institutions

       Sec. 7029. (a) Evaluations and Report.--The Secretary of 
     the Treasury shall instruct the United States executive 
     director of each international financial institution to seek 
     to require that such institution adopts and implements a 
     publicly available policy, including the strategic use of 
     peer reviews and external experts, to conduct independent, 
     in-depth evaluations of the effectiveness of at least 25 
     percent of all loans, grants, programs, and significant 
     analytical non-lending activities in advancing the 
     institution's goals of reducing poverty and promoting 
     equitable economic growth, consistent with relevant 
     safeguards, to ensure that decisions to support such loans, 
     grants, programs, and activities are based on accurate data 
     and objective analysis: Provided, That not later than 45 days 
     after enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit a 
     report to the Committees on Appropriations on steps taken by 
     the United States executive directors and the international 
     financial institutions consistent with this subsection.
       (b) Compensation.--None of the funds appropriated under 
     title V of this Act may be made as payment to any 
     international financial institution while the United States 
     executive director to such institution is compensated by the 
     institution at a rate which, together with whatever 
     compensation such executive director receives from the United 
     States, is in excess of the rate provided for an individual 
     occupying a position at level IV of the Executive Schedule 
     under section 5315 of title 5, United States Code, or while 
     any alternate United States executive director to such 
     institution is compensated by the institution at a rate in 
     excess of the rate provided for an individual occupying a 
     position at level V of the Executive Schedule under section 
     5316 of title 5, United States Code.
       (c) Human Rights.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall 
     instruct the United States executive director of each 
     international financial institution to seek to require that 
     such institution conducts rigorous human rights due diligence 
     and risk management, as appropriate, in connection with any 
     loan, grant, policy, or strategy of such institution: 
     Provided, That prior to voting on any such loan, grant, 
     policy, or strategy the executive director shall consult with 
     the Assistant Secretary for Democracy, Human Rights, and 
     Labor, Department of State, if the executive director has 
     reason to believe that such loan, grant, policy, or strategy 
     could result in forced displacement or other violation of 
     human rights.
       (d) Fraud and Corruption.--The Secretary of the Treasury 
     shall instruct the United States executive director of each 
     international financial institution to promote in loan, 
     grant, and other financing agreements improvements in 
     borrowing countries' financial management and judicial 
     capacity to investigate, prosecute, and punish fraud and 
     corruption.
       (e) Whistleblower Protections.--The Secretary of the 
     Treasury shall instruct the United States executive director 
     of each international financial institution to seek to 
     require that each such institution is effectively 
     implementing and enforcing policies and procedures which 
     reflect best practices for the protection of whistleblowers 
     from retaliation, including best practices for--
       (1) protection against retaliation for internal and lawful 
     public disclosure;
       (2) legal burdens of proof;
       (3) statutes of limitation for reporting retaliation;
       (4) access to independent adjudicative bodies, including 
     external arbitration; and
       (5) results that eliminate the effects of proven 
     retaliation.

                          debt-for-development

       Sec. 7030.  In order to enhance the continued participation 
     of nongovernmental organizations in debt-for-development and 
     debt-for-nature exchanges, a nongovernmental organization 
     which is a grantee or contractor of the United States Agency 
     for International Development may place in interest bearing 
     accounts local currencies which accrue to that organization 
     as a result of economic assistance provided under title III 
     of this Act and, subject to the regular notification 
     procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, any interest 
     earned on such investment shall be used for the purpose for 
     which the assistance was provided to that organization.

              financial management and budget transparency

       Sec. 7031. (a) Limitation on Direct Government-to-
     Government Assistance.--
       (1) Requirements.--Funds appropriated by this Act may be 
     made available for direct government-to-government assistance 
     only if--
       (A)(i) each implementing agency or ministry to receive 
     assistance has been assessed and is considered to have the 
     systems required to manage such assistance and any identified 
     vulnerabilities or weaknesses of such agency or ministry have 
     been addressed;
       (ii) the recipient agency or ministry employs and utilizes 
     staff with the necessary technical, financial, and management 
     capabilities;
       (iii) the recipient agency or ministry has adopted 
     competitive procurement policies and systems;
       (iv) effective monitoring and evaluation systems are in 
     place to ensure that such assistance is used for its intended 
     purposes;
       (v) no level of acceptable fraud is assumed; and
       (vi) the government of the recipient country is taking 
     steps to publicly disclose on an annual basis its national 
     budget, to include income and expenditures;
       (B) the recipient government is in compliance with the 
     principles set forth in section 7013 of this Act;
       (C) the recipient agency or ministry is not headed or 
     controlled by an organization designated as a foreign 
     terrorist organization under section 219 of the Immigration 
     and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189);
       (D) the Government of the United States and the government 
     of the recipient country have agreed, in writing, on clear 
     and achievable objectives for the use of such assistance, 
     which should be made available on a cost-reimbursable basis; 
     and
       (E) the recipient government is taking steps to protect the 
     rights of civil society, including freedoms of expression, 
     association, and assembly.
       (2) Consultation and notification.--In addition to the 
     requirements in paragraph (1), no funds may be made available 
     for direct government-to-government assistance without prior 
     consultation with, and notification of, the Committees on 
     Appropriations: Provided, That such notification shall 
     contain an explanation of how the proposed activity meets the 
     requirements of paragraph (1): Provided further, That the 
     requirements of this paragraph shall only apply to direct 
     government-to-government assistance in excess of $10,000,000 
     and all funds available for cash transfer, budget support, 
     and cash payments to individuals.
       (3) Suspension of assistance.--The Administrator of the 
     United States Agency for International Development or the 
     Secretary of State, as appropriate, shall suspend any direct 
     government-to-government assistance if the Administrator or 
     the Secretary has credible information of material misuse of 
     such assistance, unless the Administrator or the Secretary 
     reports to the Committees on Appropriations that it is in the 
     national interest of the United States to continue such 
     assistance, including a justification, or that such misuse 
     has been appropriately addressed.
       (4) Submission of information.--The Secretary of State 
     shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations, concurrent 
     with the fiscal year 2019 congressional budget justification 
     materials, amounts planned for assistance described in 
     paragraph (1) by country, proposed funding amount, source of 
     funds, and type of assistance.
       (5) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the enactment of 
     this Act and 6 months thereafter until September 30, 2019, 
     the USAID Administrator shall submit to the Committees on 
     Appropriations a report that--
       (A) details all assistance described in paragraph (1) 
     provided during the previous 6-month period by country, 
     funding amount, source of funds, and type of such assistance; 
     and
       (B) the type of procurement instrument or mechanism 
     utilized and whether the assistance was provided on a 
     reimbursable basis.
       (6) Debt service payment prohibition.--None of the funds 
     made available by this Act may be used by the government of 
     any foreign country for debt service payments owed by any 
     country to any international financial institution: Provided, 
     That for purposes of this paragraph, the term ``international 
     financial institution'' has the meaning given the term in 
     section 7034(o)(3) of this Act.
       (b) National Budget and Contract Transparency.--
       (1) Minimum requirements of fiscal transparency.--The 
     Secretary of State shall continue to update and strengthen 
     the ``minimum requirements of fiscal transparency'' for each 
     government receiving assistance appropriated by this Act, as 
     identified in the report required by section 7031(b) of the 
     Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
     Appropriations Act, 2014 (division K of Public Law 113-76).
       (2) Definition.--For purposes of paragraph (1), ``minimum 
     requirements of fiscal transparency'' are requirements 
     consistent with those in subsection (a)(1), and the public 
     disclosure of national budget documentation (to include 
     receipts and expenditures by ministry) and government 
     contracts and licenses for natural resource extraction (to 
     include bidding and concession allocation practices).
       (3) Determination and report.--For each government 
     identified pursuant to paragraph (1), the Secretary of State, 
     not later than 180 days after enactment of this Act, shall 
     make or update any determination of ``significant progress'' 
     or ``no significant progress'' in

[[Page H6958]]

     meeting the minimum requirements of fiscal transparency, and 
     make such determinations publicly available in an annual 
     ``Fiscal Transparency Report'' to be posted on the Department 
     of State Web site: Provided, That the Secretary shall 
     identify the significant progress made by each such 
     government to publicly disclose national budget 
     documentation, contracts, and licenses which are additional 
     to such information disclosed in previous fiscal years, and 
     include specific recommendations of short- and long-term 
     steps such government should take to improve fiscal 
     transparency: Provided further, That the annual report shall 
     include a detailed description of how funds appropriated by 
     this Act are being used to improve fiscal transparency, and 
     identify benchmarks for measuring progress.
       (4) Assistance.--Funds appropriated under title III of this 
     Act shall be made available for programs and activities to 
     assist governments identified pursuant to paragraph (1) to 
     improve budget transparency and to support civil society 
     organizations in such countries that promote budget 
     transparency: Provided, That such sums shall be in addition 
     to funds otherwise available for such purposes: Provided 
     further, That a description of the uses of such funds shall 
     be included in the annual ``Fiscal Transparency Report'' 
     required by paragraph (3).
       (c) Anti-Kleptocracy and Human Rights.--
       (1)(A) Ineligibility.--Officials of foreign governments and 
     their immediate family members about whom the Secretary of 
     State has credible information have been involved in 
     significant corruption, including corruption related to the 
     extraction of natural resources, or a gross violation of 
     human rights shall be ineligible for entry into the United 
     States.
       (B) The Secretary shall also publicly or privately 
     designate or identify officials of foreign governments and 
     their immediate family members about whom the Secretary has 
     such credible information without regard to whether the 
     individual has applied for a visa.
       (2) Exception.--Individuals shall not be ineligible if 
     entry into the United States would further important United 
     States law enforcement objectives or is necessary to permit 
     the United States to fulfill its obligations under the United 
     Nations Headquarters Agreement: Provided, That nothing in 
     paragraph (1) shall be construed to derogate from United 
     States Government obligations under applicable international 
     agreements.
       (3) Waiver.--The Secretary may waive the application of 
     paragraph (1) if the Secretary determines that the waiver 
     would serve a compelling national interest or that the 
     circumstances which caused the individual to be ineligible 
     have changed sufficiently.
       (4) Report.--Not later than 6 months after enactment of 
     this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit a report, 
     including a classified annex if necessary, to the Committees 
     on Appropriations and the Committees on the Judiciary 
     describing the information related to corruption or violation 
     of human rights concerning each of the individuals found 
     ineligible in the previous 12 months pursuant to paragraph 
     (1)(A) as well as the individuals who the Secretary 
     designated or identified pursuant to paragraph (1)(B), or who 
     would be ineligible but for the application of paragraph (2), 
     a list of any waivers provided under paragraph (3), and the 
     justification for each waiver.
       (5) Posting of report.--Any unclassified portion of the 
     report required under paragraph (4) shall be posted on the 
     Department of State Web site.
       (6) Clarification.--For purposes of paragraphs (1)(B), (4), 
     and (5), the records of the Department of State and of 
     diplomatic and consular offices of the United States 
     pertaining to the issuance or refusal of visas or permits to 
     enter the United States shall not be considered confidential.
       (d) Foreign Assistance Web Site.--Funds appropriated by 
     this Act under titles I and II, and funds made available for 
     any independent agency in title III, as appropriate, shall be 
     made available to support the provision of additional 
     information on United States Government foreign assistance on 
     the Department of State foreign assistance Web site: 
     Provided, That all Federal agencies funded under this Act 
     shall provide such information on foreign assistance, upon 
     request, to the Department of State.

                           democracy programs

       Sec. 7032. (a) Funding.--Of the funds appropriated by this 
     Act, not less than $2,308,517,000 shall be made available for 
     democracy programs.
       (b) Authority.--Funds made available by this Act for 
     democracy programs may be made available notwithstanding any 
     other provision of law, and with regard to the National 
     Endowment for Democracy, any regulation.
       (c) Definition of Democracy Programs.--For purposes of 
     funds appropriated by this Act, the term ``democracy 
     programs'' means programs that support good governance, 
     credible and competitive elections, freedom of expression, 
     association, assembly, and religion, human rights, labor 
     rights, independent media, and the rule of law, and that 
     otherwise strengthen the capacity of democratic political 
     parties, governments, nongovernmental organizations and 
     institutions, and citizens to support the development of 
     democratic states, and institutions that are responsive and 
     accountable to citizens.
       (d) Program Prioritization.--Funds made available pursuant 
     to this section that are made available for programs to 
     strengthen government institutions shall be prioritized for 
     those institutions that demonstrate a commitment to democracy 
     and the rule of law, as determined by the Secretary of State 
     or the Administrator of the United States Agency for 
     International Development, as appropriate.
       (e) Restriction on Prior Approval.--With respect to the 
     provision of assistance for democracy programs in this Act, 
     the organizations implementing such assistance, the specific 
     nature of that assistance, and the participants in such 
     programs shall not be subject to the prior approval by the 
     government of any foreign country: Provided, That the 
     Secretary of State, in coordination with the USAID 
     Administrator, shall report to the Committees on 
     Appropriations, not later than 120 days after enactment of 
     this Act, detailing steps taken by the Department of State 
     and USAID to comply with the requirements of this subsection.
       (f) Continuation of Current Practices.--USAID shall 
     continue to implement civil society and political competition 
     and consensus building programs abroad with funds 
     appropriated by this Act in a manner that recognizes the 
     unique benefits of grants and cooperative agreements in 
     implementing such programs: Provided, That nothing in this 
     paragraph shall be construed to affect the ability of any 
     entity, including United States small businesses, from 
     competing for proposals for USAID-funded civil society and 
     political competition and consensus building programs.
       (g) Communication and Reporting Requirements.--
       (1) Informing the national endowment for democracy.--The 
     Assistant Secretary for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, 
     Department of State, and the Assistant Administrator for 
     Democracy, Conflict, and Humanitarian Assistance, USAID, 
     shall regularly inform the National Endowment for Democracy 
     of democracy programs that are planned and supported by funds 
     made available by this Act and prior Acts making 
     appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
     operations, and related programs.
       (2) Report on funding instruments.--Not later than 
     September 30, 2018, the Secretary of State and USAID 
     Administrator shall each submit to the Committees on 
     Appropriations a report detailing the use of contracts, 
     grants, and cooperative agreements in the conduct of 
     democracy programs with funds made available by the 
     Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
     Appropriations Act, 2017 (division J of Public Law 115-31), 
     which shall include funding level, account, program sector 
     and subsector, and a brief summary of purpose.
       (3) Report on program changes.--The Secretary of State or 
     the USAID Administrator, as appropriate, shall report to the 
     appropriate congressional committees within 30 days of a 
     decision to significantly change the objectives or the 
     content of a democracy program or to close such a program due 
     to the increasingly repressive nature of the host country 
     government: Provided, That the report shall also include a 
     strategy for continuing support for democracy promotion, if 
     such programming is feasible, and may be submitted in 
     classified form, if necessary.

                    international religious freedom

       Sec. 7033. (a) International Religious Freedom Office and 
     Special Envoy to Promote Religious Freedom.--
       (1) Funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
     ``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'' shall be made available 
     for the Office of International Religious Freedom, Bureau of 
     Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, Department of State, the 
     Office of the Ambassador-at-Large for International Religious 
     Freedom, and the Special Envoy to Promote Religious Freedom 
     of Religious Minorities in the Near East and South Central 
     Asia, as authorized in the Near East and South Central Asia 
     Religious Freedom Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-161), including 
     for support staff at not less than the amounts specified for 
     such offices in the table under such heading in the report 
     accompanying this Act.
       (2) Funds appropriated under the heading ``Diplomatic and 
     Consular Programs'' and designated for the Office of 
     International Religious Freedom shall be made available for 
     the development and implementation of an international 
     religious freedom curriculum in accordance with section 
     708(a)(2) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 
     4028).
       (b) Assistance.--
       (1) International religious freedom programs.--Of the funds 
     appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Democracy Fund'' 
     and available for the Human Rights and Democracy Fund (HRDF), 
     not less than $10,000,000 shall be made available for 
     international religious freedom programs.
       (2) Protection and investigation programs.--Of the funds 
     appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Economic Support 
     Fund'', not less than $10,000,000 shall be made available for 
     programs to protect vulnerable and persecuted religious 
     minorities, including for assistance authorized by section 5 
     of H.R. 390, the Iraq and Syria Genocide Emergency Relief and 
     Accountability Act of 2017, as passed by the House of 
     Representatives on June 6, 2017.
       (3) Humanitarian programs.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
     under the headings ``International Disaster Assistance'' and 
     ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'' shall be

[[Page H6959]]

     made available for humanitarian assistance for vulnerable and 
     persecuted religious minorities, including victims of 
     genocide designated by the Secretary of State and other 
     groups that have suffered crimes against humanity and ethnic 
     cleansing, to--
       (A) accelerate the implementation of an immediate, 
     coordinated, and sustained response to provide humanitarian 
     assistance;
       (B) enhance protection of conflict victims, including those 
     facing a dire humanitarian crisis and severe persecution 
     because of their faith or ethnicity; and
       (C) improve access to secure locations for obtaining 
     humanitarian and resettlement services.
       (c) International Broadcasting.--Funds appropriated by this 
     Act under the heading ``Broadcasting Board of Governors, 
     International Broadcasting Operations'' shall be made 
     available for programs related to international religious 
     freedom, including reporting on the condition of vulnerable 
     and persecuted religious groups.

                           special provisions

       Sec. 7034. (a) Victims of War, Displaced Children, and 
     Displaced Burmese.--Funds appropriated in titles III and VI 
     of this Act that are made available for victims of war, 
     displaced children, displaced Burmese, and to combat 
     trafficking in persons and assist victims of such 
     trafficking, may be made available notwithstanding any other 
     provision of law.
       (b) Law Enforcement and Security.--
       (1) Child soldiers.--Funds appropriated by this Act should 
     not be used to support any military training or operations 
     that include child soldiers.
       (2) Disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration.--
     Section 7034(d) of the Department of State, Foreign 
     Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2015 
     (division J of Public Law 113-235) shall continue in effect 
     during fiscal year 2018.
       (3) Forensic assistance.--
       (A) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
     ``Economic Support Fund'', not less than $6,500,000 shall be 
     made available for forensic anthropology assistance related 
     to the exhumation of mass graves and the identification of 
     victims of war crimes, genocide, and crimes against humanity, 
     including in Iraq, Guatemala, Colombia, El Salvador, Syria, 
     and Sri Lanka, which shall be administered by the Assistant 
     Secretary for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, Department 
     of State.
       (B) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
     ``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', not 
     less than $6,000,000 shall be made available for DNA forensic 
     technology programs to combat human trafficking in Central 
     America and Mexico.
       (4) International prison conditions.--Section 7065 of the 
     Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
     Appropriations Act, 2015 (division J of Public Law 113-235) 
     shall continue in effect during fiscal year 2018.
       (5) Reconstituting civilian police authority.--In providing 
     assistance with funds appropriated by this Act under section 
     660(b)(6) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, support for 
     a nation emerging from instability may be deemed to mean 
     support for regional, district, municipal, or other sub-
     national entity emerging from instability, as well as a 
     nation emerging from instability.
       (6) Security assistance report.--Not later than 120 days 
     after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall 
     submit to the Committees on Appropriations a report on funds 
     obligated and expended during fiscal year 2017, by country 
     and purpose of assistance, under the headings ``Peacekeeping 
     Operations'', ``International Military Education and 
     Training'', and ``Foreign Military Financing Program''.
       (7) Foreign military sales and foreign military financing 
     program.--
       (A) Availability.--Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
     heading ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' for the 
     general costs of administering military assistance and sales 
     shall be made available to increase the efficiency and 
     effectiveness of programs authorized by Chapter 2 of the Arms 
     Export Control Act: Provided, That prior to the obligation of 
     funds for such purposes, the Secretary of State shall consult 
     with the Committees on Appropriations.
       (B) Quarterly status report.--Following the submission of 
     the quarterly report required by section 36 of Public Law 90-
     629 (22 U.S.C. 2776), the Secretary of State, in coordination 
     with the Secretary of Defense, shall submit to the Committees 
     on Appropriations a status report that contains the 
     information described under the heading ``Foreign Military 
     Financing Program'' in the report accompanying this Act.
       (c) World Food Programme.--Funds managed by the Bureau for 
     Democracy, Conflict, and Humanitarian Assistance, United 
     States Agency for International Development, from this or any 
     other Act, may be made available as a general contribution to 
     the World Food Programme.
       (d) Directives and Authorities.--
       (1) Research and training.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
     under the heading ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and 
     Central Asia'' shall be made available to carry out the 
     Program for Research and Training on Eastern Europe and the 
     Independent States of the Former Soviet Union as authorized 
     by the Soviet-Eastern European Research and Training Act of 
     1983 (22 U.S.C. 4501 et seq.).
       (2) Genocide victims memorial sites and tribunals.--Funds 
     appropriated by this Act and prior Acts making appropriations 
     for the Department of State, foreign operations, and related 
     programs under the headings ``Economic Support Fund'' and 
     ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'' may be 
     made available as contributions to establish and maintain 
     memorial sites of genocide, subject to the regular 
     notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
       (3) Additional authority.--Of the amount made available 
     under the heading ``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'', not 
     to exceed $1,000,000 may be used to make grants to carry out 
     the activities of the Cultural Antiquities Task Force.
       (4) Innovation.--The USAID Administrator may use funds 
     appropriated by this Act under title III to make innovation 
     incentive awards: Provided, That each individual award may 
     not exceed $100,000: Provided further, That no more than 10 
     such awards may be made during fiscal year 2018: Provided 
     further, That for purposes of this paragraph the term 
     ``innovation incentive award'' means the provision of funding 
     on a competitive basis that--
       (A) encourages and rewards the development of solutions for 
     a particular, well-defined problem related to the alleviation 
     of poverty; or
       (B) helps identify and promote a broad range of ideas and 
     practices facilitating further development of an idea or 
     practice by third parties.
       (5) Report.--The report required by section 502(d) of the 
     Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (division 
     N of Public Law 115-31) shall be provided to the Committees 
     on Appropriations.
       (e) Partner Vetting.--The Secretary of State and USAID 
     Administrator may initiate a partner vetting program to 
     mitigate the risk of diversion of foreign assistance, or make 
     significant modifications to any existing partner vetting 
     program, only following consultation with the Committees on 
     Appropriations: Provided, That the Secretary and 
     Administrator should provide a direct vetting option for 
     prime awardees in any partner vetting program initiated after 
     the date of the enactment of this Act.
       (f) Contingencies.--During fiscal year 2018, the President 
     may use up to $125,000,000 under the authority of section 451 
     of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, notwithstanding any 
     other provision of law.
       (g) International Child Abductions.--The Secretary of State 
     should withhold funds appropriated under title III of this 
     Act for assistance for the central government of any country 
     that is not taking appropriate steps to comply with the 
     Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child 
     Abductions, done at the Hague on October 25, 1980: Provided, 
     That the Secretary shall report to the Committees on 
     Appropriations within 15 days of withholding funds under this 
     subsection.
       (h) Cultural Preservation Project Determination.--None of 
     the funds appropriated in titles I and III of this Act may be 
     used for the preservation of religious sites unless the 
     Secretary of State or the USAID Administrator, as 
     appropriate, determines and reports to the Committees on 
     Appropriations that such sites are historically, 
     artistically, or culturally significant, that the purpose of 
     the project is neither to advance nor to inhibit the free 
     exercise of religion, and that the project is in the national 
     interest of the United States.
       (i) Transfer of Funds for Extraordinary Protection.--The 
     Secretary of State may transfer to, and merge with, funds 
     under the heading ``Protection of Foreign Missions and 
     Officials'' unobligated balances of expired funds 
     appropriated under the heading ``Diplomatic and Consular 
     Programs'' for fiscal year 2018, except for funds designated 
     for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
     pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
     and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, at no later than 
     the end of the fifth fiscal year after the last fiscal year 
     for which such funds are available for the purposes for which 
     appropriated: Provided, That not more than $50,000,000 may be 
     transferred.
       (j) Green Climate Fund Prohibition.--None of the funds 
     appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act or prior 
     Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, 
     foreign operations, and related programs may be made 
     available as a contribution, grant, or any other payment to 
     the Green Climate Fund.
       (k) Extension of Authorities.--
       (1) Passport fees.--Section 1(b)(2) of the Passport Act of 
     June 4, 1920 (22 U.S.C. 214(b)(2)) shall be applied by 
     substituting ``September 30, 2018'' for ``September 30, 
     2010''.
       (2) Incentives for critical posts.--The authority contained 
     in section 1115(d) of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 
     2009 (Public Law 111-32) shall remain in effect through 
     September 30, 2018.
       (3) USAID civil service annuitant waiver.--Section 
     625(j)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
     2385(j)(1)) shall be applied by substituting ``September 30, 
     2018'' for ``October 1, 2010'' in subparagraph (B).
       (4) Categorical eligibility.--The Foreign Operations, 
     Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
     1990 (Public Law 101-167) is amended--
       (A) in section 599D (8 U.S.C. 1157 note)--
       (i) in subsection (b)(3), by striking ``and 2017'' and 
     inserting ``2017, and 2018''; and
       (ii) in subsection (e), by striking ``2017'' each place it 
     appears and inserting ``2018''; and

[[Page H6960]]

       (B) in section 599E (8 U.S.C. 1255 note) in subsection 
     (b)(2), by striking ``2017'' and inserting ``2018''.
       (5) Inspector general annuitant waiver.--The authorities 
     provided in section 1015(b) of the Supplemental 
     Appropriations Act, 2010 (Public Law 111-212) shall remain in 
     effect through September 30, 2018.
       (6) Extension of war reserves stockpile authority.--
       (A) Section 12001(d) of the Department of Defense 
     Appropriations Act, 2005 (Public Law 108-287; 118 Stat. 1011) 
     is amended by striking ``2018'' and inserting ``2019''.
       (B) Section 514(b)(2)(A) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
     1961 (22 U.S.C. 2321h(b)(2)(A)) is amended by striking ``and 
     2018'' and inserting ``2018, and 2019''.
       (l) Department of State and the United States Agency for 
     International Development.--Prior to implementing any 
     reorganization of the Department of State or USAID, including 
     any action taken pursuant to the March 13, 2017 Executive 
     Order 13781 on a Comprehensive Plan for Reorganizing the 
     Executive Branch, the Secretary of State shall submit a 
     report to the appropriate congressional committees on such 
     reorganization: Provided, That such report shall include--
       (1) a detailed justification and analysis for each major 
     element of such reorganization plans, including any proposals 
     to--
       (A) eliminate or consolidate covered departments, agencies, 
     or organizations, including bureaus and offices within such 
     departments, agencies, or organizations, with duplicative or 
     overlapping programs or missions;
       (B) expand, reconfigure, eliminate, or consolidate the 
     United States official presence overseas, including through 
     the disposal of excess property, at bilateral, regional, or 
     multilateral embassies and missions;
       (C) reduce, modernize, or otherwise modify the workforce of 
     the Department of State and USAID, including Civil Service 
     and Foreign Service, eligible family members, and locally 
     employed staff; and
       (D) improve the efficiency, effectiveness, performance, and 
     accountability of the Department of State and USAID, 
     including through modernizing information technology 
     platforms and streamlining administrative functions; and
       (2) projections of cost savings and efficiencies achieved 
     through implementation of each element, an analysis of the 
     impact of any such change on the ability to advance the 
     national interests of the United States through diplomacy and 
     development and to conduct adequate monitoring and oversight 
     of foreign assistance programs, and any legislative change 
     necessary to implement such proposals.
       (m) HIV/AIDS Working Capital Fund.--Funds available in the 
     HIV/AIDS Working Capital Fund established pursuant to section 
     525(b)(1) of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and 
     Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2005 (Public Law 108-
     477) may be made available for pharmaceuticals and other 
     products for child survival, malaria, and tuberculosis to the 
     same extent as HIV/AIDS pharmaceuticals and other products, 
     subject to the terms and conditions in such section: 
     Provided, That the authority in section 525(b)(5) of the 
     Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs 
     Appropriation Act, 2005 (Public Law 108-477) shall be 
     exercised by the Assistant Administrator for Global Health, 
     USAID, with respect to funds deposited for such non-HIV/AIDS 
     pharmaceuticals and other products, and shall be subject to 
     the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
     Appropriations: Provided further, That the Secretary of State 
     shall include in the congressional budget justification an 
     accounting of budgetary resources, disbursements, balances, 
     and reimbursements related to such fund.
       (n) Loan Guarantees.--Funds appropriated under the headings 
     ``Economic Support Fund'' and ``Assistance for Europe, 
     Eurasia and Central Asia'' by this Act and prior Acts making 
     appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
     operations, and related programs may be made available for 
     the costs, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
     Budget Act of 1974, of loan guarantees for Jordan, Ukraine, 
     Iraq, Egypt, and Tunisia, which are authorized to be 
     provided: Provided, That amounts made available under this 
     paragraph for the costs of such guarantees shall not be 
     considered assistance for the purposes of provisions of law 
     limiting assistance to a country: Provided further, That 
     funds made available pursuant to this subsection shall be 
     subject to prior consultation with the appropriate 
     congressional committees, and the regular notification 
     procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided 
     further, That amounts made available pursuant to this 
     subsection from prior Acts that were previously designated by 
     the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War 
     on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, 
     are designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of such Act and shall be available only if 
     the President subsequently so designates all such amounts and 
     transmits such designations to the Congress.
       (o) Definitions.--
       (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--Unless otherwise 
     defined in this Act, for purposes of this Act the term 
     ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the Committees 
     on Appropriations and Foreign Relations of the Senate and the 
     Committees on Appropriations and Foreign Affairs of the House 
     of Representatives.
       (2) Funds appropriated by this act and prior acts.--Unless 
     otherwise defined in this Act, for purposes of this Act the 
     term ``funds appropriated by this Act and prior Acts making 
     appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
     operations, and related programs'' means funds that remain 
     available for obligation, and have not expired.
       (3) International financial institutions.--In this Act 
     ``international financial institutions'' means the 
     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the 
     International Development Association, the International 
     Finance Corporation, the Inter-American Development Bank, the 
     International Monetary Fund, the Asian Development Bank, the 
     Asian Development Fund, the Inter-American Investment 
     Corporation, the North American Development Bank, the 
     European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the African 
     Development Bank, the African Development Fund, and the 
     Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency.
       (4) Southern kordofan reference.--Any reference to Southern 
     Kordofan in this or any other Act making appropriations for 
     the Department of State, foreign operations, and related 
     programs shall be deemed to include portions of Western 
     Kordofan that were previously part of Southern Kordofan prior 
     to the 2013 division of Southern Kordofan.
       (5) USAID.--In this Act, the term ``USAID'' means the 
     United States Agency for International Development.
       (6) Clarification.--Unless otherwise provided for in this 
     Act, for the purposes of this Act the terms ``under this 
     heading'', ``under the heading'', ``under the headings'', or 
     similar phrases mean funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available under such heading or headings in all titles of 
     this Act:  Provided, That the term ``under the heading in 
     this title'' or similar phrases means funds appropriated or 
     otherwise made available only in such title.
       (7) Spend plan.--In this Act, the term ``spend plan'' means 
     a plan for the uses of funds appropriated for a particular 
     entity, country, program, purpose, or account and which shall 
     include, at a minimum, a description of--
       (A) realistic and sustainable goals and criteria for 
     measuring progress and a timeline for achieving such goals; 
     and
       (B) amounts and sources of funds by account.

                     arab league boycott of israel

       Sec. 7035.  It is the sense of the Congress that--
       (1) the Arab League boycott of Israel, and the secondary 
     boycott of American firms that have commercial ties with 
     Israel, is an impediment to peace in the region and to United 
     States investment and trade in the Middle East and North 
     Africa;
       (2) the Arab League boycott, which was regrettably 
     reinstated in 1997, should be immediately and publicly 
     terminated, and the Central Office for the Boycott of Israel 
     immediately disbanded;
       (3) all Arab League states should normalize relations with 
     their neighbor Israel;
       (4) the President and the Secretary of State should 
     continue to vigorously oppose the Arab League boycott of 
     Israel and find concrete steps to demonstrate that opposition 
     by, for example, taking into consideration the participation 
     of any recipient country in the boycott when determining to 
     sell weapons to said country; and
       (5) the President should report to Congress annually on 
     specific steps being taken by the United States to encourage 
     Arab League states to normalize their relations with Israel 
     to bring about the termination of the Arab League boycott of 
     Israel, including those to encourage allies and trading 
     partners of the United States to enact laws prohibiting 
     businesses from complying with the boycott and penalizing 
     businesses that do comply.

                         palestinian statehood

       Sec. 7036. (a) Limitation on Assistance.--None of the funds 
     appropriated under titles III through VI of this Act may be 
     provided to support a Palestinian state unless the Secretary 
     of State determines and certifies to the appropriate 
     congressional committees that--
       (1) the governing entity of a new Palestinian state--
       (A) has demonstrated a firm commitment to peaceful co-
     existence with the State of Israel; and
       (B) is taking appropriate measures to counter terrorism and 
     terrorist financing in the West Bank and Gaza, including the 
     dismantling of terrorist infrastructures, and is cooperating 
     with appropriate Israeli and other appropriate security 
     organizations; and
       (2) the Palestinian Authority (or the governing entity of a 
     new Palestinian state) is working with other countries in the 
     region to vigorously pursue efforts to establish a just, 
     lasting, and comprehensive peace in the Middle East that will 
     enable Israel and an independent Palestinian state to exist 
     within the context of full and normal relationships, which 
     should include--
       (A) termination of all claims or states of belligerency;
       (B) respect for and acknowledgment of the sovereignty, 
     territorial integrity, and political independence of every 
     state in the area

[[Page H6961]]

     through measures including the establishment of demilitarized 
     zones;
       (C) their right to live in peace within secure and 
     recognized boundaries free from threats or acts of force;
       (D) freedom of navigation through international waterways 
     in the area; and
       (E) a framework for achieving a just settlement of the 
     refugee problem.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that 
     the governing entity should enact a constitution assuring the 
     rule of law, an independent judiciary, and respect for human 
     rights for its citizens, and should enact other laws and 
     regulations assuring transparent and accountable governance.
       (c) Waiver.--The President may waive subsection (a) if the 
     President determines that it is important to the national 
     security interest of the United States to do so.
       (d) Exemption.--The restriction in subsection (a) shall not 
     apply to assistance intended to help reform the Palestinian 
     Authority and affiliated institutions, or the governing 
     entity, in order to help meet the requirements of subsection 
     (a), consistent with the provisions of section 7040 of this 
     Act (``Limitation on Assistance for the Palestinian 
     Authority'').

           restrictions concerning the palestinian authority

       Sec. 7037.  None of the funds appropriated under titles II 
     through VI of this Act may be obligated or expended to create 
     in any part of Jerusalem a new office of any department or 
     agency of the United States Government for the purpose of 
     conducting official United States Government business with 
     the Palestinian Authority over Gaza and Jericho or any 
     successor Palestinian governing entity provided for in the 
     Israel-PLO Declaration of Principles: Provided, That this 
     restriction shall not apply to the acquisition of additional 
     space for the existing Consulate General in Jerusalem: 
     Provided further, That meetings between officers and 
     employees of the United States and officials of the 
     Palestinian Authority, or any successor Palestinian governing 
     entity provided for in the Israel-PLO Declaration of 
     Principles, for the purpose of conducting official United 
     States Government business with such authority should 
     continue to take place in locations other than Jerusalem: 
     Provided further, That as has been true in the past, officers 
     and employees of the United States Government may continue to 
     meet in Jerusalem on other subjects with Palestinians 
     (including those who now occupy positions in the Palestinian 
     Authority), have social contacts, and have incidental 
     discussions.

 prohibition on assistance to the palestinian broadcasting corporation

       Sec. 7038.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available by this Act may be used to provide equipment, 
     technical support, consulting services, or any other form of 
     assistance to the Palestinian Broadcasting Corporation.

                 assistance for the west bank and gaza

       Sec. 7039. (a) Oversight.--For fiscal year 2018, 30 days 
     prior to the initial obligation of funds for the bilateral 
     West Bank and Gaza Program, the Secretary of State shall 
     certify to the Committees on Appropriations that procedures 
     have been established to assure the Comptroller General of 
     the United States will have access to appropriate United 
     States financial information in order to review the uses of 
     United States assistance for the Program funded under the 
     heading ``Economic Support Fund'' for the West Bank and Gaza.
       (b) Vetting.--Prior to the obligation of funds appropriated 
     by this Act under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' for 
     assistance for the West Bank and Gaza, the Secretary of State 
     shall take all appropriate steps to ensure that such 
     assistance is not provided to or through any individual, 
     private or government entity, or educational institution that 
     the Secretary knows or has reason to believe advocates, 
     plans, sponsors, engages in, or has engaged in, terrorist 
     activity nor, with respect to private entities or educational 
     institutions, those that have as a principal officer of the 
     entity's governing board or governing board of trustees any 
     individual that has been determined to be involved in, or 
     advocating terrorist activity or determined to be a member of 
     a designated foreign terrorist organization: Provided, That 
     the Secretary of State shall, as appropriate, establish 
     procedures specifying the steps to be taken in carrying out 
     this subsection and shall terminate assistance to any 
     individual, entity, or educational institution which the 
     Secretary has determined to be involved in or advocating 
     terrorist activity.
       (c) Prohibition.--
       (1) Recognition of acts of terrorism.--None of the funds 
     appropriated under titles III through VI of this Act for 
     assistance under the West Bank and Gaza Program may be made 
     available for the purpose of recognizing or otherwise 
     honoring individuals who commit, or have committed acts of 
     terrorism.
       (2) Security assistance and reporting requirement.--
     Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the funds 
     made available by this or prior appropriations Acts, 
     including funds made available by transfer, may be made 
     available for obligation for security assistance for the West 
     Bank and Gaza until the Secretary of State reports to the 
     Committees on Appropriations on the benchmarks that have been 
     established for security assistance for the West Bank and 
     Gaza and reports on the extent of Palestinian compliance with 
     such benchmarks.
       (d) Audits by the United States Agency for International 
     Development.--
       (1) The Administrator of the United States Agency for 
     International Development shall ensure that Federal or non-
     Federal audits of all contractors and grantees, and 
     significant subcontractors and sub-grantees, under the West 
     Bank and Gaza Program, are conducted at least on an annual 
     basis to ensure, among other things, compliance with this 
     section.
       (2) Of the funds appropriated by this Act up to $500,000 
     may be used by the Office of Inspector General of the United 
     States Agency for International Development for audits, 
     inspections, and other activities in furtherance of the 
     requirements of this subsection: Provided, That such funds 
     are in addition to funds otherwise available for such 
     purposes.
       (e) Comptroller General of the United States Audit.--
     Subsequent to the certification specified in subsection (a), 
     the Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct an 
     audit and an investigation of the treatment, handling, and 
     uses of all funds for the bilateral West Bank and Gaza 
     Program, including any funds provided as cash transfer 
     assistance, in fiscal year 2018 under the heading ``Economic 
     Support Fund'', and such audit shall address--
       (1) the extent to which such Program complies with the 
     requirements of subsections (b) and (c); and
       (2) an examination of all programs, projects, and 
     activities carried out under such Program, including both 
     obligations and expenditures.
       (f) Notification Procedures.--Funds made available in this 
     Act for West Bank and Gaza shall be subject to the regular 
     notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
       (g) Report.--Not later than 180 days after enactment of 
     this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the 
     Committees on Appropriations updating the report contained in 
     section 2106 of chapter 2 of title II of the Emergency 
     Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War 
     on Terror, and Tsunami Relief, 2005 (Public Law 109-13).

         limitation on assistance for the palestinian authority

       Sec. 7040. (a) Prohibition of Funds.--None of the funds 
     appropriated by this Act to carry out the provisions of 
     chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
     may be obligated or expended with respect to providing funds 
     to the Palestinian Authority.
       (b) Waiver.--The prohibition included in subsection (a) 
     shall not apply if the President certifies in writing to the 
     Speaker of the House of Representatives, the President pro 
     tempore of the Senate, and the Committees on Appropriations 
     that waiving such prohibition is important to the national 
     security interest of the United States.
       (c) Period of Application of Waiver.--Any waiver pursuant 
     to subsection (b) shall be effective for no more than a 
     period of 6 months at a time and shall not apply beyond 12 
     months after the enactment of this Act.
       (d) Report.--Whenever the waiver authority pursuant to 
     subsection (b) is exercised, the President shall submit a 
     report to the Committees on Appropriations detailing the 
     justification for the waiver, the purposes for which the 
     funds will be spent, and the accounting procedures in place 
     to ensure that the funds are properly disbursed: Provided, 
     That the report shall also detail the steps the Palestinian 
     Authority has taken to arrest terrorists, confiscate weapons 
     and dismantle the terrorist infrastructure.
       (e) Certification.--If the President exercises the waiver 
     authority under subsection (b), the Secretary of State must 
     certify and report to the Committees on Appropriations prior 
     to the obligation of funds that the Palestinian Authority has 
     established a single treasury account for all Palestinian 
     Authority financing and all financing mechanisms flow through 
     this account, no parallel financing mechanisms exist outside 
     of the Palestinian Authority treasury account, and there is a 
     single comprehensive civil service roster and payroll, and 
     the Palestinian Authority is acting to counter incitement of 
     violence against Israelis and is supporting activities aimed 
     at promoting peace, coexistence, and security cooperation 
     with Israel.
       (f) Prohibition to Hamas and the Palestine Liberation 
     Organization.--
       (1) None of the funds appropriated in titles III through VI 
     of this Act may be obligated for salaries of personnel of the 
     Palestinian Authority located in Gaza or may be obligated or 
     expended for assistance to Hamas or any entity effectively 
     controlled by Hamas, any power-sharing government of which 
     Hamas is a member, or that results from an agreement with 
     Hamas.
       (2) Notwithstanding the limitation of paragraph (1), 
     assistance may be provided to a power-sharing government only 
     if the President certifies and reports to the Committees on 
     Appropriations that such government, including all of its 
     ministers or such equivalent, has publicly accepted and is 
     complying with the principles contained in section 620K(b)(1) 
     (A) and (B) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as 
     amended.
       (3) The President may exercise the authority in section 
     620K(e) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as added by 
     the Palestinian Anti-Terrorism Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-
     446) with respect to this subsection.
       (4) Whenever the certification pursuant to paragraph (2) is 
     exercised, the Secretary of State shall submit a report to 
     the Committees on Appropriations within 120 days of the 
     certification and every quarter thereafter on

[[Page H6962]]

     whether such government, including all of its ministers or 
     such equivalent are continuing to comply with the principles 
     contained in section 620K(b)(1) (A) and (B) of the Foreign 
     Assistance Act of 1961, as amended: Provided, That the report 
     shall also detail the amount, purposes and delivery 
     mechanisms for any assistance provided pursuant to the 
     abovementioned certification and a full accounting of any 
     direct support of such government.
       (5) None of the funds appropriated under titles III through 
     VI of this Act may be obligated for assistance for the 
     Palestine Liberation Organization.

                      middle east and north africa

       Sec. 7041. (a) Egypt.--
       (1) Certification and report.--Funds appropriated by this 
     Act that are available for assistance for Egypt may be made 
     available notwithstanding any other provision of law 
     restricting assistance for Egypt, except for this subsection 
     and section 620M of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and 
     may only be made available for assistance for the Government 
     of Egypt if the Secretary of State certifies and reports to 
     the Committees on Appropriations that such government is--
       (A) sustaining the strategic relationship with the United 
     States; and
       (B) meeting its obligations under the 1979 Egypt-Israel 
     Peace Treaty.
       (2) Report on governance.--
       (A) Not later than 90 days after enactment of this Act and 
     every 90 days thereafter until September 30, 2018, the 
     Secretary of State shall report to the appropriate 
     congressional committees on steps taken by the Government of 
     Egypt to--
       (i) advance democracy and human rights in Egypt, including 
     to govern democratically and protect the rights of religious 
     minorities and women;
       (ii) implement reforms that protect freedoms of expression, 
     association, and peaceful assembly, including the ability of 
     civil society organizations and the media to function without 
     interference; and
       (iii) improve the transparency and accountability of 
     security forces.
       (B) The report required by subparagraph (A) may be provided 
     in classified form if necessary.
       (3) Economic support fund.--
       (A) Funding.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act under 
     the heading ``Economic Support Fund'', not less than 
     $150,000,000 shall be made available for assistance for 
     Egypt, subject to prior consultation with the appropriate 
     congressional committees and the regular notification 
     procedures of the Committees on Appropriations and section 
     634A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961: Provided, That 
     such funds may be made available for democracy programs and 
     for development programs in the Sinai: Provided further, That 
     such funds may not be made available for cash transfer 
     assistance or budget support unless the Secretary of State 
     certifies and reports to the appropriate congressional 
     committees that the Government of Egypt is taking consistent 
     and effective steps to stabilize the economy and implement 
     market-based economic reforms.
       (B) Withholding.--The Secretary of State shall withhold 
     from obligation funds appropriated by this Act under the 
     heading ``Economic Support Fund'' for assistance for Egypt, 
     an amount of such funds that the Secretary determines to be 
     equivalent to that expended by the United States Government 
     for bail, and by nongovernmental organizations for legal and 
     court fees, associated with democracy-related trials in Egypt 
     until the Secretary certifies and reports to the Committees 
     on Appropriations that the Government of Egypt has dismissed 
     the convictions issued by the Cairo Criminal Court on June 4, 
     2013, in ``Public Prosecution Case No. 1110 for the Year 
     2012''.
       (4) Foreign military financing program.--Of the funds 
     appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Foreign Military 
     Financing Program'', $1,300,000,000, to remain available 
     until September 30, 2019, shall be made available for 
     assistance for Egypt, which may be transferred to an interest 
     bearing account in the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
     following consultation with the Committees on Appropriations.
       (5) Consultation requirements.--Not later than 90 days 
     after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall 
     consult with the Committees on Appropriations on any plan to 
     restructure military assistance for Egypt.
       (b) Iran.--
       (1) Funding.--Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
     headings ``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'', ``Economic 
     Support Fund'', and ``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, 
     Demining and Related Programs'' shall be used by the 
     Secretary of State--
       (A) to support the United States policy to prevent Iran 
     from achieving the capability to produce or otherwise obtain 
     a nuclear weapon;
       (B) to support an expeditious response to any violation of 
     the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action or United Nations 
     Security Council Resolution 2231;
       (C) to support the implementation and enforcement of 
     sanctions against Iran for support of terrorism, human rights 
     abuses, and ballistic missile and weapons proliferation; and
       (D) for democracy programs for Iran, to be administered by 
     the Assistant Secretary for Near Eastern Affairs, Department 
     of State, in consultation with the Assistant Secretary for 
     Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, Department of State.
       (2) Continuation of prohibition.--The terms and conditions 
     of paragraph (2) of section 7041(c) in division I of Public 
     Law 112-74 shall continue in effect during fiscal year 2018.
       (3) Reports.--
       (A) The Secretary of State shall submit to the Committees 
     on Appropriations the semi-annual report required by section 
     2 of the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act of 2015 (42 U.S.C. 
     2160e(d)(4)).
       (B) Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
     this Act, the Secretary of State, in consultation with the 
     Secretary of the Treasury, shall submit to the appropriate 
     congressional committees a report on the status of the 
     implementation and enforcement of bilateral United States and 
     multilateral sanctions against Iran and actions taken by the 
     United States and the international community to enforce such 
     sanctions against Iran: Provided, That the report shall also 
     include any entities involved in providing significant 
     support for the development of a ballistic missile by the 
     Government of Iran after October 1, 2015, including shipping 
     and financing, and note whether such entities are currently 
     under United States sanctions: Provided further, That such 
     report shall be submitted in an unclassified form, but may 
     contain a classified annex if necessary.
       (c) Iraq.--
       (1) Purposes.--Funds appropriated by this Act shall be made 
     available for assistance for Iraq to promote governance, 
     security, and internal and regional stability, including in 
     the Kurdistan Region of Iraq and other areas impacted by the 
     conflict in Syria, and among religious and ethnic minority 
     populations in Iraq.
       (2) Explosive ordnance disposal programs.--Funds 
     appropriated by this Act under the heading 
     ``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and Related 
     Programs'' shall be made available for explosive ordnance 
     disposal programs in areas liberated from extremist 
     organizations in Iraq.
       (3) Kurdistan region.--
       (A) Funds appropriated by this Act under the headings 
     ``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'' and 
     ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' that are available for 
     assistance for Iraq shall be made available to enhance the 
     capacity of Kurdistan Regional Government security services 
     and for security programs in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq to 
     address requirements arising from the violence in Syria and 
     Iraq: Provided, That the Secretary of State shall consult 
     with the Committees on Appropriations prior to obligating 
     such funds.
       (B) Funds appropriated by this Act under the headings 
     ``International Disaster Assistance'' and ``Migration and 
     Refugee Assistance'' should be made available for assistance 
     for the Kurdistan Region of Iraq to address the needs of 
     internally displaced persons (IDPs) and refugees: Provided, 
     That funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
     ``Economic Support Fund'' shall be made available for 
     programs to mitigate the impact of such IDPs and refugees in 
     such Region, including for assistance for communities hosting 
     such persons.
       (4) Basing rights agreement.--None of the funds 
     appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act may be 
     used by the Government of the United States to enter into a 
     permanent basing rights agreement between the United States 
     and Iraq.
       (d) Jordan.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act under 
     titles III and IV, not less than $1,280,000,000 shall be made 
     available for assistance for Jordan, of which not less than 
     $475,000,000 shall be for budget support for the Government 
     of Jordan.
       (e) Lebanon.--
       (1) Limitation.--None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
     may be made available for the Lebanese Internal Security 
     Forces (ISF) or the Lebanese Armed Forces (LAF) if the ISF or 
     the LAF is controlled by a foreign terrorist organization, as 
     designated pursuant to section 219 of the Immigration and 
     Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189).
       (2) Consultation requirement.--Funds appropriated by this 
     Act under the headings ``International Narcotics Control and 
     Law Enforcement'' and ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' 
     that are available for assistance for Lebanon may be made 
     available for programs and equipment for the ISF and the LAF 
     to address security and stability requirements in areas 
     affected by the conflict in Syria, following consultation 
     with the appropriate congressional committees.
       (3) Foreign military financing program.--In addition to the 
     activities described in paragraph (2), funds appropriated by 
     this Act under the heading ``Foreign Military Financing 
     Program'' for assistance for Lebanon may be made available 
     only to professionalize the LAF and to strengthen border 
     security and combat terrorism, including training and 
     equipping the LAF to secure Lebanon's borders, interdicting 
     arms shipments, preventing the use of Lebanon as a safe haven 
     for terrorist groups, and to implement United Nations 
     Security Council Resolution 1701: Provided, That funds may 
     not be obligated for assistance for the LAF until the 
     Secretary of State submits to the Committees on 
     Appropriations a spend plan, including actions to be taken to 
     ensure equipment provided to the LAF is only used for the 
     intended purposes, except such plan may not be considered as 
     meeting the notification requirements under section 7015 of 
     this Act or under section 634A of the Foreign Assistance Act 
     of 1961, and shall be submitted

[[Page H6963]]

     not later than September 1, 2018: Provided further, That any 
     notification submitted pursuant to such sections shall 
     include any funds specifically intended for lethal military 
     equipment.
       (f) Libya.--
       (1) Limitation.--None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
     may be made available for assistance for the central 
     Government of Libya unless the Secretary of State certifies 
     and reports to the Committees on Appropriations that such 
     government is cooperating with United States Government 
     efforts to investigate and bring to justice those responsible 
     for the attack on United States personnel and facilities in 
     Benghazi, Libya in September 2012: Provided, That the 
     limitation in this paragraph shall not apply to funds made 
     available for the purpose of protecting United States 
     Government personnel or facilities.
       (2) Certification requirement.--Prior to the initial 
     obligation of funds made available by this Act for assistance 
     for Libya, the Secretary of State shall certify and report to 
     the Committees on Appropriations that all practicable steps 
     have been taken to ensure that mechanisms are in place for 
     monitoring, oversight, and control of funds made available by 
     this subsection for assistance for Libya.
       (3) Reporting requirement.--The Secretary of State shall 
     promptly inform the appropriate congressional committees of 
     each instance in which assistance provided pursuant to this 
     subsection has been diverted or destroyed, to include the 
     type and amount of assistance, a description of the incident 
     and parties involved, and an explanation of the response of 
     the Department of State.
       (g) Morocco.--Funds appropriated under title III of this 
     Act that are made available for assistance for Morocco shall 
     also be made available for assistance for any region or 
     territory administered by Morocco, including the Western 
     Sahara: Provided, That not later than 45 days after enactment 
     of this Act and prior to the obligation of such funds, the 
     Secretary of State, in consultation with the Administrator of 
     the United States Agency for International Development, shall 
     consult with the Committees on Appropriations on the proposed 
     uses of such funds based on the requirements described under 
     this section in the report accompanying this Act.
       (h) Refugee Assistance in North Africa.--The Secretary of 
     State, in consultation with the United Nations High 
     Commissioner for Refugees and the Executive Director of the 
     World Food Programme, shall take all practicable steps to 
     strengthen monitoring of the delivery of humanitarian 
     assistance provided for refugees in North Africa, including 
     the establishment of registration systems where they do not 
     exist and any other efforts to ensure that all vulnerable 
     refugees are receiving such assistance.
       (i) Strategy Requirement.--Not later than 60 days after 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State, in 
     consultation with the Secretary of Defense, shall submit to 
     the appropriate congressional committees a strategy for 
     United States engagement in North Africa, which shall include 
     detailed information on how diplomatic engagement and 
     assistance will be prioritized for such region, including to 
     address economic and security needs.
       (j) Syria.--
       (1) Non-lethal assistance.--Funds appropriated under title 
     III of this Act shall be made available, to the extent 
     practicable and notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     for non-lethal assistance for programs to address the needs 
     of civilians affected by conflict in Syria, and for programs 
     that seek to--
       (A) establish governance in Syria that is representative, 
     inclusive, and accountable;
       (B) empower women through political and economic programs, 
     and address the psychosocial needs of women and their 
     families in Syria and neighboring countries;
       (C) develop and implement political processes that are 
     democratic, transparent, and strengthen the rule of law;
       (D) further the legitimacy and viability of the Syrian 
     opposition through cross-border programs;
       (E) develop and sustain civil society and independent media 
     in Syria;
       (F) promote stability and economic development in Syria;
       (G) document, investigate, and prosecute human rights 
     violations in Syria, including through transitional justice 
     programs and support for nongovernmental organizations;
       (H) expand the role of women in negotiations to end the 
     violence and in any political transition in Syria;
       (I) assist Syrian refugees whose education has been 
     interrupted by the ongoing conflict to complete higher 
     education requirements at universities and other academic 
     institutions in the region, and through distance learning;
       (J) assist vulnerable populations in Syria and in 
     neighboring countries;
       (K) protect and preserve the cultural identity of the 
     people of Syria as a counterbalance to extremism, 
     particularly those living in neighboring countries and among 
     youth;
       (L) protect and preserve cultural heritage sites in Syria, 
     particularly those damaged and destroyed by extremists; and
       (M) counter extremism in Syria.
       (2) Strategy update.--Funds appropriated by this Act that 
     are made available for assistance for Syria pursuant to the 
     authority of this subsection may only be made available after 
     the Secretary of State, in consultation with the heads of 
     relevant United States Government agencies, submits, in 
     classified form if necessary, an update to the comprehensive 
     strategy required in section 7041(i)(3) of Public Law 113-76.
       (3) Monitoring and oversight.--Prior to the obligation of 
     funds appropriated by this Act and made available for 
     assistance for Syria, the Secretary of State shall take all 
     practicable steps to ensure that mechanisms are in place for 
     monitoring, oversight, and control of such assistance inside 
     Syria: Provided, That the Secretary shall promptly inform the 
     appropriate congressional committees of each instance in 
     which assistance provided pursuant to this subsection has 
     been diverted or destroyed, to include the type and amount of 
     assistance, a description of the incident and parties 
     involved, and an explanation of the response of the 
     Department of State.
       (4) Consultation and notification.--Funds made available 
     pursuant to this subsection may only be made available 
     following consultation with the appropriate congressional 
     committees, and shall be subject to the regular notification 
     procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
       (k) Tunisia.--Of the funds appropriated under titles III 
     and IV of this Act, not less than $165,400,000 shall be made 
     available for assistance for Tunisia.
       (l) West Bank and Gaza.--
       (1) Report on assistance.--Prior to the initial obligation 
     of funds made available by this Act under the heading 
     ``Economic Support Fund'' for assistance for the West Bank 
     and Gaza, the Secretary of State shall report to the 
     Committees on Appropriations that the purpose of such 
     assistance is to--
       (A) advance Middle East peace;
       (B) improve security in the region;
       (C) continue support for transparent and accountable 
     government institutions;
       (D) promote a private sector economy; or
       (E) address urgent humanitarian needs.
       (2) Limitations.--
       (A) None of the funds appropriated under the heading 
     ``Economic Support Fund'' in this Act may be made available 
     for assistance for the Palestinian Authority, if after the 
     date of enactment of this Act--
       (i) the Palestinians obtain the same standing as member 
     states or full membership as a state in the United Nations or 
     any specialized agency thereof outside an agreement 
     negotiated between Israel and the Palestinians; or
       (ii) the Palestinians initiate an International Criminal 
     Court (ICC) judicially authorized investigation, or actively 
     support such an investigation, that subjects Israeli 
     nationals to an investigation for alleged crimes against 
     Palestinians.
       (B)(i) The President may waive the provisions of section 
     1003 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 
     1988 and 1989 (Public Law 100-204) if the President 
     determines and certifies in writing to the Speaker of the 
     House of Representatives, the President pro tempore of the 
     Senate, and the appropriate congressional committees that the 
     Palestinians have not, after the date of enactment of this 
     Act--
       (I) obtained in the United Nations or any specialized 
     agency thereof the same standing as member states or full 
     membership as a state outside an agreement negotiated between 
     Israel and the Palestinians; and
       (II) initiated or actively supported an ICC investigation 
     against Israeli nationals for alleged crimes against 
     Palestinians.
       (ii) Not less than 90 days after the President is unable to 
     make the certification pursuant to clause (i) of this 
     subparagraph, the President may waive section 1003 of Public 
     Law 100-204 if the President determines and certifies in 
     writing to the Speaker of the House of Representatives, the 
     President pro tempore of the Senate, and the Committees on 
     Appropriations that the Palestinians have entered into direct 
     and meaningful negotiations with Israel: Provided, That any 
     waiver of the provisions of section 1003 of Public Law 100-
     204 under clause (i) of this subparagraph or under previous 
     provisions of law must expire before the waiver under the 
     preceding sentence may be exercised.
       (iii) Any waiver pursuant to this subparagraph shall be 
     effective for no more than a period of 6 months at a time and 
     shall not apply beyond 12 months after the enactment of this 
     Act.
       (3) Reduction.--The Secretary of State shall reduce the 
     amount of assistance made available by this Act under the 
     heading ``Economic Support Fund'' for the Palestinian 
     Authority by an amount the Secretary determines is equivalent 
     to the amount expended by the Palestinian Authority, the 
     Palestine Liberation Organization, and any successor or 
     affiliated organizations with such entities for payments to 
     individuals and the families of such individuals who are 
     imprisoned for acts of terrorism or who died committing such 
     acts during the previous calendar year: Provided, That the 
     Secretary shall report to the appropriate congressional 
     committees on the amount reduced for fiscal year 2018 prior 
     to the obligation of funds for the Palestinian Authority: 
     Provided further, That the report required by the previous 
     proviso shall also include steps taken to prevent any such 
     payments.
       (4) Security report.--The reporting requirements contained 
     in section 1404 of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2008 
     (Public Law 110-252) shall apply to funds made available by 
     this Act, including a description of modifications, if any, 
     to the security strategy of the Palestinian Authority.

[[Page H6964]]

       (5) Incitement report.--Not later than 90 days after 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit a 
     report to the appropriate congressional committees detailing 
     steps taken by the Palestinian Authority to counter 
     incitement of violence against Israelis and to promote peace 
     and coexistence with Israel.

                                 africa

       Sec. 7042. (a) African Great Lakes Region Assistance 
     Restriction.--Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
     heading ``International Military Education and Training'' for 
     the central government of a country in the African Great 
     Lakes region may be made available only for Expanded 
     International Military Education and Training and 
     professional military education until the Secretary of State 
     determines and reports to the Committees on Appropriations 
     that such government is not facilitating or otherwise 
     participating in destabilizing activities in a neighboring 
     country, including aiding and abetting armed groups.
       (b) Boko Haram.--Funds appropriated by this Act that are 
     made available for assistance for Cameroon, Chad, Niger, and 
     Nigeria--
       (1) shall be made available for assistance for women and 
     girls who are targeted by the terrorist organization Boko 
     Haram, consistent with the provisions of section 7059 of this 
     Act, and for individuals displaced by Boko Haram violence; 
     and
       (2) may be made available for counterterrorism programs to 
     combat Boko Haram.
       (c) Central African Republic.--Funds made available by this 
     Act for assistance for the Central African Republic shall be 
     made available for reconciliation and peacebuilding programs, 
     including activities to promote inter-faith dialogue at the 
     national and local levels, and for programs to prevent crimes 
     against humanity.
       (d) Lord's Resistance Army.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
     shall be made available for programs and activities in areas 
     affected by the Lord's Resistance Army (LRA) consistent with 
     the goals of the Lord's Resistance Army Disarmament and 
     Northern Uganda Recovery Act (Public Law 111-172), including 
     to improve physical access, telecommunications 
     infrastructure, and early-warning mechanisms and to support 
     the disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration of former 
     LRA combatants, especially child soldiers.
       (e) Malawi.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act under 
     the heading ``Development Assistance'', not less than 
     $56,000,000 shall be made available for assistance for 
     Malawi, of which $10,000,000 shall be made available for 
     higher education programs.
       (f) South Sudan.--
       (1) Strategy update.--Not later than 60 days after 
     enactment of this Act the Secretary of State, in consultation 
     with the Administrator of the United States Agency for 
     International Development, shall submit an update to the 
     strategy required in section 7042(i) of the Department of 
     State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
     Appropriations Act, 2017 (division J of Public Law 115-31).
       (2) Certification.--None of the funds appropriated by this 
     Act that are available for assistance for the central 
     Government of South Sudan may be made available until the 
     Secretary of State certifies and reports to the Committees on 
     Appropriations that such government is taking effective steps 
     to--
       (A) end hostilities and pursue good faith negotiations for 
     a political settlement of the conflict;
       (B) provide access for humanitarian organizations;
       (C) end the recruitment and use of child soldiers;
       (D) protect freedoms of expression, association, and 
     assembly;
       (E) reduce corruption related to the extraction and sale of 
     oil and gas;
       (F) establish democratic institutions;
       (G) establish accountable military and police forces under 
     civilian authority; and
       (H) investigate and prosecute individuals credibly alleged 
     to have committed gross violations of human rights, including 
     at the Terrain compound in Juba, South Sudan on July 11, 
     2016.
       (3) Exclusions.--The limitation of paragraph (2) shall not 
     apply to--
       (A) humanitarian assistance;
       (B) assistance to support South Sudan peace negotiations or 
     to advance or implement a peace agreement; and
       (C) assistance to support implementation of outstanding 
     issues of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement and mutual 
     arrangements related to such Agreement.
       (4) Consultation.--Prior to the initial obligation of funds 
     made available for the central Government of South Sudan 
     pursuant to paragraphs (3)(B) and (C), the Secretary of State 
     shall consult with the Committees on Appropriations on the 
     intended uses of such funds, steps taken by such government 
     to advance or implement a peace agreement, and progress made 
     by the Government of South Sudan in meeting the requirements 
     in paragraph (2).
       (g) Sudan.--
       (1) Limitation.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
     law, none of the funds appropriated by this Act may be made 
     available for assistance for the Government of Sudan.
       (2) Limitation on loans.--None of the funds appropriated by 
     this Act may be made available for the cost, as defined in 
     section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, of 
     modifying loans and loan guarantees held by the Government of 
     Sudan, including the cost of selling, reducing, or canceling 
     amounts owed to the United States, and modifying concessional 
     loans, guarantees, and credit agreements.
       (3) Exclusions.--The limitations of paragraphs (1) and (2) 
     shall not apply to--
       (A) humanitarian assistance;
       (B) assistance for democracy programs;
       (C) assistance for the Darfur region, Southern Kordofan 
     State, Blue Nile State, other marginalized areas and 
     populations in Sudan, and Abyei; and
       (D) assistance to support implementation of outstanding 
     issues of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement, mutual 
     arrangements related to post-referendum issues associated 
     with such Agreement, or any other internationally recognized 
     viable peace agreement in Sudan.
       (h) Zimbabwe.--
       (1) Instruction.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall 
     instruct the United States executive director of each 
     international financial institution to vote against any 
     extension by the respective institution of any loan or grant 
     to the Government of Zimbabwe, except to meet basic human 
     needs or to promote democracy, unless the Secretary of State 
     certifies and reports to the Committees on Appropriations 
     that the rule of law has been restored, including respect for 
     ownership and title to property, and freedoms of expression, 
     association, and assembly.
       (2) Limitations.--None of the funds appropriated by this 
     Act shall be made available for assistance for the central 
     Government of Zimbabwe, except for health and education, 
     unless the Secretary of State certifies and reports as 
     required in paragraph (1), and funds may be made available 
     for macroeconomic growth assistance if the Secretary reports 
     to the Committees on Appropriations that such government is 
     implementing transparent fiscal policies, including public 
     disclosure of revenues from the extraction of natural 
     resources.

                       east asia and the pacific

       Sec. 7043.
       (a) Burma.--
       (1) Bilateral economic assistance.--
       (A) Funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
     ``Economic Support Fund'' for assistance for Burma may be 
     made available notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     except for this subsection, and following consultation with 
     the appropriate congressional committees.
       (B) Funds appropriated under title III of this Act for 
     assistance for Burma--
       (i) shall be made available to strengthen civil society 
     organizations in Burma and for programs to strengthen 
     independent media;
       (ii) shall be made available for community-based 
     organizations operating in Thailand to provide food, medical, 
     and other humanitarian assistance to internally displaced 
     persons in eastern Burma, in addition to assistance for 
     Burmese refugees from funds appropriated by this Act under 
     the heading ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'';
       (iii) shall be made available for programs to promote 
     ethnic and religious tolerance, including in Rakhine and 
     Kachin states;
       (iv) shall be made available to promote rural economic 
     development in Burma, including through microfinance and 
     sustainable power generation programs;
       (v) shall be made available to increase opportunities for 
     foreign direct investment by strengthening the rule of law, 
     transparency, and accountability;
       (vi) may not be made available to any individual or 
     organization if the Secretary of State has credible 
     information that such individual or organization has 
     committed a gross violation of human rights, including 
     against Rohingya and other minority groups, or that advocates 
     violence against ethnic or religious groups and individuals 
     in Burma;
       (vii) may not be made available to any organization or 
     entity controlled by the military of Burma; and
       (viii) may be made available for programs administered by 
     the Office of Transition Initiatives, United States Agency 
     for International Development, for ethnic groups and civil 
     society in Burma to help sustain ceasefire agreements and 
     further prospects for reconciliation and peace, which may 
     include support to representatives of ethnic armed groups for 
     this purpose.
       (2) International security assistance.--None of the funds 
     appropriated by this Act under the headings ``International 
     Military Education and Training'' and ``Foreign Military 
     Financing Program'' may be made available for assistance for 
     Burma: Provided, That the Department of State may continue 
     consultations with the armed forces of Burma only on human 
     rights and disaster response in a manner consistent with the 
     prior fiscal year, and following consultation with the 
     appropriate congressional committees.
       (3) Programs, position, and responsibilities.--
       (A) Any new program or activity in Burma initiated in 
     fiscal year 2017 shall be subject to prior consultation with 
     the appropriate congressional committees.
       (B) Section 7043(b)(7) of the Department of State, Foreign 
     Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2015 
     (division J of Public Law 113-235) shall continue in effect 
     during fiscal year 2018.
       (b) Cambodia.--
       (1) Conditions on assistance.--Of the funds appropriated in 
     title IV of this Act that are made available for assistance 
     for

[[Page H6965]]

     the central Government of Cambodia, 25 percent shall be 
     withheld from obligation until the Secretary of State 
     certifies and reports to the Committees on Appropriations 
     that such government--
       (A) is taking effective steps to strengthen regional 
     security and stability, particularly regarding territorial 
     disputes in the South China Sea;
       (B) has ceased efforts to intimidate civil society and the 
     political opposition in Cambodia, is credibly investigating 
     the murder of social and political activists, and is taking 
     actions to address the concerns detailed in the September 14, 
     2016 United Nations Human Rights Situation in Cambodia--Joint 
     Statement; and
       (C) is supporting the conduct of free and fair elections in 
     Cambodia through a non-partisan election commission; fair 
     election processes; credible post-election dispute resolution 
     mechanisms; open and inclusive participation, to include the 
     return of exiled former opposition leaders; and respect for 
     freedoms of assembly and speech.
       (2) Khmer rouge tribunal.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
     that are made available for assistance for Cambodia may only 
     be made available for a contribution to the Extraordinary 
     Chambers in the Court of Cambodia if the Secretary of State 
     certifies and reports to the appropriate congressional 
     committees that such contribution is in the national interest 
     of the United States and will support the prosecution and 
     punishment of individuals responsible for genocide in 
     Cambodia in a credible manner.
       (c) North Korea.--
       (1) Broadcasts.--Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
     heading ``International Broadcasting Operations'' shall be 
     made available to maintain broadcasting hours into North 
     Korea at levels not less than the prior fiscal year.
       (2) Refugees.--Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
     heading ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'' should be made 
     available for assistance for refugees from North Korea, 
     including protection activities in the People's Republic of 
     China and other countries in Asia.
       (3) Limitation on use of funds.--None of the funds made 
     available by this Act under the heading ``Economic Support 
     Fund'' may be made available for assistance for the 
     Government of North Korea.
       (d) People's Republic of China.--
       (1) Limitation on use of funds.--None of the funds 
     appropriated under the heading ``Diplomatic and Consular 
     Programs'' in this Act may be obligated or expended for 
     processing licenses for the export of satellites of United 
     States origin (including commercial satellites and satellite 
     components) to the People's Republic of China (PRC) unless, 
     at least 15 days in advance, the Committees on Appropriations 
     are notified of such proposed action.
       (2) People's liberation army.--The terms and requirements 
     of section 620(h) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall 
     apply to foreign assistance projects or activities of the 
     People's Liberation Army (PLA) of the PRC, to include such 
     projects or activities by any entity that is owned or 
     controlled by, or an affiliate of, the PLA: Provided, That 
     none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
     pursuant to this Act may be used to finance any grant, 
     contract, or cooperative agreement with the PLA, or any 
     entity that the Secretary of State has reason to believe is 
     owned or controlled by, or an affiliate of, the PLA.
       (3) Counter influence programs.--Funds appropriated by this 
     Act for public diplomacy under title I and for assistance 
     under titles III and IV shall be made available to counter 
     the influence of the PRC, in accordance with the strategy 
     required by section 7043(e)(3) of the Department of State, 
     Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
     2014 (division K of Public Law 113-76), following 
     consultation with the Committees on Appropriations.
       (4) Prohibition.--
       (A) None of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
     headings ``Global Health Programs'', ``Development 
     Assistance'', and ``Economic Support Fund'' may be made 
     available for assistance for the Government of the People's 
     Republic of China.
       (B) The limitation of subparagraph (A) shall not apply to 
     assistance described in paragraph (2) of subsection (f) of 
     this section and for programs to detect, prevent, and treat 
     infectious disease.
       (e) Philippines.--Prior to the initial obligation of funds 
     appropriated by this Act for assistance for the Philippines, 
     but not later than 180 days after enactment of this Act, the 
     Secretary of State shall submit a report to the Committees on 
     Appropriations, which shall include the information required 
     under this section in the report accompanying this Act.
       (f) Tibet.--
       (1) Financing of projects in tibet.--The Secretary of the 
     Treasury should instruct the United States executive director 
     of each international financial institution to use the voice 
     and vote of the United States to support financing of 
     projects in Tibet if such projects do not provide incentives 
     for the migration and settlement of non-Tibetans into Tibet 
     or facilitate the transfer of ownership of Tibetan land and 
     natural resources to non-Tibetans, are based on a thorough 
     needs-assessment, foster self-sufficiency of the Tibetan 
     people and respect Tibetan culture and traditions, and are 
     subject to effective monitoring.
       (2) Programs for tibetan communities.--
       (A) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
     appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Economic Support 
     Fund'' shall be made available to nongovernmental 
     organizations to support activities which preserve cultural 
     traditions and promote sustainable development, education, 
     and environmental conservation in Tibetan communities in the 
     Tibetan Autonomous Region and in other Tibetan communities in 
     China.
       (B) Funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
     ``Economic Support Fund'' shall be made available for 
     programs to promote and preserve Tibetan culture, 
     development, and the resilience of Tibetan communities in 
     India and Nepal, and to assist in the education and 
     development of the next generation of Tibetan leaders from 
     such communities: Provided, That such funds are in addition 
     to amounts made available in subparagraph (A) for programs 
     inside Tibet.

                         south and central asia

       Sec. 7044. (a) Afghanistan.--
       (1) Personnel report.--Not later than 30 days after 
     enactment of this Act and every 120 days thereafter until 
     September 30, 2019, the Secretary of State shall submit a 
     report, in classified form if necessary, to the appropriate 
     congressional committees detailing by agency the number of 
     personnel present in Afghanistan under Chief of Mission 
     authority per section 3927 of title 22, United States Code, 
     at the end of the 120 day period preceding the submission of 
     such report: Provided, That such report shall also include 
     the number of locally employed staff and contractors 
     supporting United States Embassy operations in Afghanistan 
     during the reporting period.
       (2) Assistance and conditions.--
       (A) Funding and limitations.--Funds appropriated by this 
     Act under the headings ``Economic Support Fund'' and 
     ``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'' may 
     be made available for assistance for Afghanistan: Provided, 
     That such funds may not be obligated for any project or 
     activity that--
       (i) includes the participation of any Afghan individual or 
     organization, including government entity, that the Secretary 
     of State determines to be involved in corrupt practices, 
     illicit narcotics production or trafficking, or a violation 
     of human rights;
       (ii) cannot be sustained, as appropriate, by the Government 
     of Afghanistan or another Afghan entity;
       (iii) is not regularly accessible for the purposes of 
     conducting effective oversight in accordance with applicable 
     Federal statutes and regulations;
       (iv) initiates any new, major infrastructure development; 
     or
       (v) legitimizes the Taliban or other extremist 
     organizations in areas not under the control of the 
     Government of Afghanistan.
       (B) Certification and report.--Prior to the initial 
     obligation of funds made available by this Act under the 
     headings ``Economic Support Fund'' and ``International 
     Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'' for assistance for 
     the central Government of Afghanistan, the Secretary of State 
     shall certify and report to the Committees on Appropriations, 
     after consultation with the Government of Afghanistan, that--
       (i) goals and benchmarks for the specific uses of such 
     funds have been established by the Governments of the United 
     States and Afghanistan;
       (ii) conditions are in place that increase the transparency 
     and accountability of the Government of Afghanistan for funds 
     obligated under the New Development Partnership or other 
     incentive-based programs;
       (iii) the Government of Afghanistan is implementing laws 
     and policies to govern democratically and protect the rights 
     of individuals, civil society, and the media;
       (iv) the Government of Afghanistan is taking consistent 
     steps to protect and advance the rights of women and girls in 
     Afghanistan;
       (v) the Government of Afghanistan is effectively 
     implementing a whole-of-government, anti-corruption strategy 
     that has been endorsed by the High Council on Rule of Law and 
     Anti-Corruption, as agreed to at the Brussels Conference on 
     Afghanistan in October 2016, and is prosecuting individuals 
     alleged to be involved in corrupt or illegal activities in 
     Afghanistan;
       (vi) monitoring and oversight frameworks for programs 
     implemented with such funds are in accordance with all 
     applicable audit policies of the Department of State and the 
     United States Agency for International Development, including 
     in areas under the control of the Taliban or other extremist 
     organizations;
       (vii) the necessary policies and procedures are in place to 
     ensure Government of Afghanistan compliance with section 7013 
     of this Act, ``Prohibition on Taxation of United States 
     Assistance''; and
       (viii) the Government of Afghanistan is publicly reporting 
     its national budget, including revenues and expenditures.
       (C) Waiver.--The Secretary of State may waive the 
     certification requirement of subparagraph (B) if the 
     Secretary determines that to do so is important to the 
     national security interest of the United States and the 
     Secretary submits a report to the Committees on 
     Appropriations, in classified form if necessary, on the 
     justification for the waiver and the reasons why any of the 
     requirements of subparagraph (B) cannot be met.

[[Page H6966]]

       (D) Programs.--Funds appropriated by this Act that are made 
     available for assistance for Afghanistan shall be made 
     available in the following manner--
       (i) for programs that protect and strengthen the rights of 
     women and girls and promote the political and economic 
     empowerment of women, including their meaningful inclusion in 
     political processes;
       (ii) for programs in South and Central Asia to expand 
     linkages between Afghanistan and countries in the region; and
       (iii) to assist the Government of Afghanistan in developing 
     and executing a transparent and consistently applied system 
     of legitimate revenue generation and expenditures.
       (E) Taxation.--None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
     for assistance for Afghanistan may be made available for 
     direct government-to-government assistance unless the 
     Secretary of State certifies and reports to the Committees on 
     Appropriations that United States companies and organizations 
     that are implementing United States foreign assistance 
     programs in Afghanistan in a manner consistent with United 
     States laws and regulations are not subjected by such 
     government to taxes or other fees in contravention of 
     diplomatic and other agreements between the Governments of 
     the United States and Afghanistan, or to retaliation for the 
     nonpayment of taxes or fees imposed in the past: Provided, 
     That not later than 90 days after enactment of this Act, the 
     Secretary of State shall submit to the Committees on 
     Appropriations an assessment of the dollar value of improper 
     taxes or fees levied by such government against such 
     companies and organizations in fiscal years 2015, 2016, and 
     2017.
       (3) Goals and benchmarks.--Not later than 90 days after 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to 
     the appropriate congressional committees a report describing 
     the goals and benchmarks required in paragraph (2)(B)(i): 
     Provided, That not later than 6 months after the submission 
     of such report and every 6 months thereafter until September 
     30, 2019, the Secretary of State shall submit a report to 
     such committees on the status of achieving such goals and 
     benchmarks: Provided further, That the Secretary of State 
     should suspend assistance for the Government of Afghanistan 
     if any report required by this paragraph indicates that such 
     government is failing to make measurable progress in meeting 
     such goals and benchmarks.
       (4) Authorities.--
       (A) Funds appropriated by this Act under title III through 
     VI that are made available for assistance for Afghanistan may 
     be made available--
       (i) notwithstanding section 7012 of this Act or any similar 
     provision of law and section 660 of the Foreign Assistance 
     Act of 1961;
       (ii) for reconciliation programs and disarmament, 
     demobilization, and reintegration activities for former 
     combatants who have renounced violence against the Government 
     of Afghanistan, in accordance with section 7046(a)(2)(B)(ii) 
     of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related 
     Programs Appropriations Act, 2012 (division I of Public Law 
     112-74); and
       (iii) for an endowment to empower women and girls.
       (B) Section 7046(a)(2)(A) of division I of Public Law 112-
     74 shall apply to funds appropriated by this Act for 
     assistance for Afghanistan.
       (5) Basing rights agreement.--None of the funds made 
     available by this Act may be used by the United States 
     Government to enter into a permanent basing rights agreement 
     between the United States and Afghanistan.
       (b) Pakistan.--
       (1) Certification requirement.--None of the funds 
     appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act under 
     the headings ``Economic Support Fund'', ``International 
     Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', and ``Foreign 
     Military Financing Program'' for assistance for the 
     Government of Pakistan may be made available unless the 
     Secretary of State certifies and reports to the Committees on 
     Appropriations that the Government of Pakistan is--
       (A) cooperating with the United States in counterterrorism 
     efforts against the Haqqani Network, the Quetta Shura 
     Taliban, Lashkar e-Tayyiba, Jaish-e-Mohammed, Al-Qaeda, and 
     other domestic and foreign terrorist organizations, including 
     taking effective steps to end support for such groups and 
     prevent them from basing and operating in Pakistan and 
     carrying out cross border attacks into neighboring countries;
       (B) not supporting terrorist activities against United 
     States or coalition forces in Afghanistan, and Pakistan's 
     military and intelligence agencies are not intervening extra-
     judicially into political and judicial processes in Pakistan;
       (C) not financing or otherwise supporting schools supported 
     by, affiliated with, or run by the Taliban or any designated 
     foreign terrorist organization;
       (D) dismantling improvised explosive device (IED) networks 
     and interdicting precursor chemicals used in the manufacture 
     of IEDs;
       (E) preventing the proliferation of nuclear-related 
     material and expertise;
       (F) issuing visas in a timely manner for United States 
     visitors engaged in counterterrorism efforts and assistance 
     programs in Pakistan; and
       (G) providing humanitarian organizations access to 
     detainees, internally displaced persons, and other Pakistani 
     civilians affected by the conflict.
       (2) Waiver.--The Secretary of State, after consultation 
     with the Secretary of Defense, may waive the certification 
     requirement of paragraph (1) if the Secretary determines that 
     to do so is important to the national security interest of 
     the United States and the Secretary submits a report to the 
     Committees on Appropriations, in classified form if 
     necessary, on the justification for the waiver and the 
     reasons why any part of the certification requirement of 
     paragraph (1) has not been met.
       (3) Assistance.--
       (A) Funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
     ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' for assistance for 
     Pakistan may be made available only to support 
     counterterrorism and counterinsurgency capabilities in 
     Pakistan.
       (B) Funds appropriated by this Act under the headings 
     ``Economic Support Fund'' and ``Nonproliferation, Anti-
     terrorism, Demining and Related Programs'' that are available 
     for assistance for Pakistan shall be made available to 
     interdict precursor materials from Pakistan to Afghanistan 
     that are used to manufacture IEDs, including calcium ammonium 
     nitrate; to support programs to train border and customs 
     officials in Pakistan and Afghanistan; and for agricultural 
     extension programs that encourage alternative fertilizer use 
     among Pakistani farmers.
       (4) Scholarships for women.--The authority and directives 
     of section 7044(d)(4) of the Department of State, Foreign 
     Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2015 
     (division J of Public Law 113-235) shall apply to funds 
     appropriated by this Act that are made available for 
     assistance for Pakistan: Provided, That prior to the 
     obligation of funds for such purposes, the USAID 
     Administrator shall consult with the Committees on 
     Appropriations.
       (5) Reports.--
       (A)(i) The spend plan required by section 7076 of this Act 
     for assistance for Pakistan shall include achievable and 
     sustainable goals, benchmarks for measuring progress, and 
     expected results regarding combating poverty and furthering 
     development in Pakistan, countering terrorism and extremism, 
     and establishing conditions conducive to the rule of law and 
     transparent and accountable governance: Provided, That not 
     later than 6 months after submission of such spend plan, and 
     each 6 months thereafter until September 30, 2019, the 
     Secretary of State shall submit a report to the Committees on 
     Appropriations on the status of achieving the goals and 
     benchmarks in such plan.
       (ii) The Secretary of State should suspend assistance for 
     the Government of Pakistan if any report required by clause 
     (i) indicates that Pakistan is failing to make measurable 
     progress in meeting such goals or benchmarks.
       (B) Not later than 90 days after enactment of this Act, the 
     Secretary of State shall submit a report to the appropriate 
     congressional committees detailing the costs and objectives 
     associated with significant infrastructure projects supported 
     by the United States in Pakistan, and an assessment of the 
     extent to which such projects achieve such objectives.
       (6) Oversight.--The Secretary of State shall take all 
     practicable steps to ensure that mechanisms are in place for 
     monitoring, oversight, and control of funds made available by 
     this subsection for assistance for Pakistan.
       (c) Sri Lanka.--
       (1) Bilateral economic assistance.--Funds appropriated by 
     this Act under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' shall be 
     made available for assistance for Sri Lanka for democracy and 
     economic development programs, particularly in areas 
     recovering from ethnic and religious conflict: Provided, That 
     such funds shall be made available for programs to assist in 
     the identification and resolution of cases of missing 
     persons.
       (2) Certification.--Funds appropriated by this Act for 
     assistance for the central Government of Sri Lanka may be 
     made available only if the Secretary of State certifies and 
     reports to the Committees on Appropriations that the 
     Government of Sri Lanka is taking steps to--
       (A) address the underlying causes of conflict in Sri Lanka;
       (B) increase accountability and transparency in governance; 
     and
       (C) fulfill commitments with respect to transitional 
     justice and the restoration of civil and human rights.
       (3) International security assistance.--Funds appropriated 
     under title IV of this Act that are available for assistance 
     for Sri Lanka shall be subject to the following conditions--
       (A) not to exceed $400,000 under the heading ``Foreign 
     Military Financing Program'' may only be made available for 
     programs to support humanitarian and disaster response 
     efforts; to redeploy out of former conflict zones; and to 
     restructure and reduce the size of the Sri Lankan armed 
     forces; and
       (B) funds under the heading ``Peacekeeping Operations'' may 
     only be made available for training and equipment related to 
     international peacekeeping operations.
       (d) Regional Programs.--
       (1) Cross border programs.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
     under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' for assistance 
     for Afghanistan and Pakistan may be provided, notwithstanding 
     any other provision of law

[[Page H6967]]

     that restricts assistance to foreign countries, for cross 
     border stabilization and development programs between 
     Afghanistan and Pakistan, or between either country and the 
     Central Asian countries.
       (2) Security and justice programs.--Funds appropriated by 
     this Act under the headings ``Economic Support Fund'', 
     ``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', and 
     ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'' that are 
     available for assistance for countries in South and Central 
     Asia shall be made available to enhance the recruitment, 
     retention, and professionalism of women in the judiciary, 
     police, and other security forces.

                    latin america and the caribbean

       Sec. 7045. (a) Central America.--
       (1) Funding.--Subject to the requirements of this 
     subsection, of the funds appropriated under titles III and IV 
     of this Act, $615,000,000 should be made available for 
     assistance for countries in Central America to implement the 
     updated United States Strategy for Engagement in Central 
     America: Provided, That such funds shall be made available to 
     the maximum extent practicable on a cost-matching basis.
       (2) Pre-obligation requirements.--Prior to the obligation 
     of funds made available pursuant to paragraph (1), the 
     Secretary of State shall submit to the Committees on 
     Appropriations a multi-year spend plan as described under 
     this section in the report accompanying this Act, including a 
     description of how such funds shall prioritize addressing the 
     key factors in countries in Central America that contribute 
     to the migration of undocumented Central Americans to the 
     United States.
       (3) Assistance for the central governments of el salvador, 
     guatemala, and honduras.--Of the funds made available 
     pursuant to paragraph (1) that are available for assistance 
     for each of the central governments of El Salvador, 
     Guatemala, and Honduras, the following amounts shall be 
     withheld from obligation and may only be made available as 
     follows:
       (A) 25 percent may only be obligated after the Secretary of 
     State certifies and reports to the appropriate congressional 
     committees that such government is taking effective steps, 
     which are in addition to those steps taken since the 
     certification and report submitted during the prior year, if 
     applicable, to--
       (i) inform its citizens of the dangers of the journey to 
     the southwest border of the United States;
       (ii) combat human smuggling and trafficking;
       (iii) improve border security, including to prevent illegal 
     migration, human smuggling and trafficking, and trafficking 
     of illicit drugs and other contraband; and
       (iv) cooperate with United States Government agencies and 
     other governments in the region to facilitate the return, 
     repatriation, and reintegration of illegal migrants arriving 
     at the southwest border of the United States who do not 
     qualify for asylum, consistent with international law.
       (B) An additional 50 percent may only be obligated after 
     the Secretary of State certifies and reports to the 
     appropriate congressional committees that such government is 
     taking effective steps, which are in addition to those steps 
     taken since the certification and report submitted during the 
     prior year, if applicable, to--
       (i) work cooperatively with an autonomous, publicly 
     accountable entity to provide oversight of the Plan of the 
     Alliance for Prosperity in the Northern Triangle in Central 
     America (the Plan);
       (ii) combat corruption, including investigating and 
     prosecuting current and former government officials credibly 
     alleged to be corrupt;
       (iii) implement reforms, policies, and programs to improve 
     transparency and strengthen public institutions, including 
     increasing the capacity and independence of the judiciary and 
     the Office of the Attorney General;
       (iv) implement a policy to ensure that local communities, 
     civil society organizations (including indigenous and other 
     marginalized groups), and local governments are consulted in 
     the design, and participate in the implementation and 
     evaluation of, activities of the Plan that affect such 
     communities, organizations, and governments;
       (v) counter the activities of criminal gangs, drug 
     traffickers, and organized crime;
       (vi) investigate and prosecute in the civilian justice 
     system government personnel, including military and police 
     personnel, who are credibly alleged to have violated human 
     rights, and ensure that such personnel are cooperating in 
     such cases;
       (vii) cooperate with commissions against corruption and 
     impunity and with regional human rights entities;
       (viii) support programs to reduce poverty, expand education 
     and vocational training for at-risk youth, create jobs, and 
     promote equitable economic growth particularly in areas 
     contributing to large numbers of migrants;
       (ix) implement a plan that includes goals, benchmarks and 
     timelines to create a professional, accountable civilian 
     police force and end the role of the military in internal 
     policing, and make such plan available to the Department of 
     State;
       (x) protect the right of political opposition parties, 
     journalists, trade unionists, human rights defenders, and 
     other civil society activists to operate without 
     interference;
       (xi) increase government revenues, including by 
     implementing tax reforms and strengthening customs agencies; 
     and
       (xii) resolve commercial disputes, including the 
     confiscation of real property, between United States entities 
     and such government.
       (4) Northern triangle incentive award.--Amounts designated 
     as ``Northern Triangle Incentive Award'' in the table under 
     this section in the report accompanying this Act may be made 
     available to El Salvador, Guatemala, or Honduras, only if the 
     Secretary of State determines and reports to the appropriate 
     congressional committees that the country has made 
     extraordinary progress in meeting two or more of the 
     conditions enumerated in paragraph (3): Provided, That such 
     award shall be made in accordance with the requirements 
     described under this section in the report accompanying this 
     Act.
       (5) Suspension of assistance and periodic review.--
       (A) The Secretary of State shall periodically review the 
     progress of each of the central governments of El Salvador, 
     Guatemala, and Honduras in meeting the requirements of 
     paragraphs (3)(A) and (3)(B): Provided, That if the Secretary 
     determines that sufficient progress has not been made by a 
     central government, the Secretary shall suspend, in whole or 
     in part, assistance for such government for programs 
     supporting such requirement, and shall notify the appropriate 
     congressional committees in writing of such action: Provided 
     further, That the Secretary may resume funding for such 
     programs only after the Secretary certifies to such 
     committees that corrective measures have been taken.
       (B) The Secretary of State shall, following a change of 
     national government in El Salvador, Guatemala, or Honduras, 
     determine and report to the appropriate congressional 
     committees that any new government has committed to take the 
     steps to meet the requirements of paragraphs (3)(A) and 
     (3)(B): Provided, That if the Secretary is unable to make 
     such a determination in a timely manner, assistance made 
     available under this subsection for such central government 
     shall be suspended, in whole or in part, until such time as 
     such determination and report can be made.
       (6) Transfer of funds.--The Department of State and USAID 
     may, following consultation with the Committees on 
     Appropriations, transfer funds made available by this Act 
     under the heading ``Development Assistance'' to the Inter-
     American Development Bank and the Inter-American Foundation 
     to support the Strategy.
       (b) Colombia.--
       (1) Assistance.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act 
     under titles III and IV, not less than $335,925,000 shall be 
     made available for assistance for Colombia, including to 
     support the efforts of the Government of Colombia to--
       (A) conduct a unified campaign against narcotics 
     trafficking, organizations designated as foreign terrorist 
     organizations pursuant to section 219 of the Immigration and 
     Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189), and other criminal or 
     illegal armed groups: Provided, That aircraft supported by 
     funds made available by this Act and prior Acts making 
     appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
     operations, and related programs may be used to transport 
     personnel and supplies involved in drug eradication and 
     interdiction, including security for such activities, and to 
     provide transport in support of alternative development 
     programs and investigations by civilian judicial authorities;
       (B) enhance security and stability in Colombia and the 
     region;
       (C) strengthen and expand governance, the rule of law, and 
     access to justice throughout Colombia;
       (D) promote economic and social development, including by 
     improving access to areas impacted by conflict through 
     demining programs; and
       (E) implement a peace agreement between the Government of 
     Colombia and illegal armed groups, in accordance with 
     constitutional and legal requirements in Colombia:
       Provided, That such funds shall be subject to prior 
     consultation with, and the regular notification procedures 
     of, the Committees on Appropriations.
       (2) Limitation.--None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
     or prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of 
     State, foreign operations, and related programs that are made 
     available for assistance for Colombia may be made available 
     for payment of reparations to conflict victims or 
     compensation to demobilized combatants associated with a 
     peace agreement between the Government of Colombia and 
     illegal armed groups.
       (3) Pre-obligation requirements.--Prior to the initial 
     obligation of funds made available pursuant to paragraph (1), 
     the Secretary of State, in consultation with the USAID 
     Administrator, shall submit to the Committees on 
     Appropriations a multi-year spend plan as described under 
     this section in the report accompanying this Act.
       (4) Counternarcotics.--Of the funds made available by this 
     Act under the headings ``Economic Support Fund'' and 
     ``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'' for 
     assistance for Colombia, 30 percent may be obligated only in 
     accordance with the conditions set forth under this section 
     in the report accompanying this Act.
       (5) Exceptions.--The limitation of paragraph (4) shall not 
     apply to funds made available for humanitarian assistance, 
     aviation instruction and maintenance, and maritime and 
     riverine security programs.

[[Page H6968]]

       (c) Cuba.--
       (1) Diplomatic facilities.--
       (A) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available by this Act and prior acts making appropriations 
     for the Department of State, foreign operations, and related 
     programs may be obligated or expended for--
       (i) the establishment or operation of a United States 
     diplomatic presence, including an embassy, consulate, or 
     liaison office, in Cuba beyond that which was in existence 
     prior to December 17, 2014, including the hiring of 
     additional staff, unless such staff are necessary for 
     protecting the health, safety, or security of diplomatic 
     personnel or facilities in Cuba;
       (ii) the facilitation of the establishment or operation of 
     a diplomatic mission of Cuba, including an embassy, 
     consulate, or liaison office, in the United States beyond 
     that which was in existence prior to December 17, 2014; and
       (iii) the support of Locally Employed Staff in 
     contravention of section 512 of the Intelligence 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (division M of Public 
     Law 114-113).
       (B) The limitation on the use of funds under subparagraph 
     (A) shall not apply--
       (i) with respect to assistance or support in furtherance of 
     democracy-building efforts for Cuba described in section 109 
     of the Cuban Liberty and Democratic Solidarity (LIBERTAD) Act 
     of 1996 (22 U.S.C. 6039); and
       (ii) if the President determines and reports to the 
     appropriate congressional committees that the government in 
     Cuba has met the requirements and factors specified in 
     section 205 of the Cuban Liberty and Democratic Solidarity 
     (LIBERTAD) Act of 1996 (22 U.S.C. 6065), including the extent 
     to which such government has extradited or otherwise rendered 
     to the United States all persons sought by the United States 
     Department of Justice for crimes committed in the United 
     States.
       (2) Democracy promotion.--Of the funds appropriated by this 
     Act under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'', $30,000,000 
     shall be made available to promote democracy and strengthen 
     civil society in Cuba: Provided, That no funds shall be 
     obligated for business promotion, economic reform, 
     entrepreneurship, or any other assistance that is not 
     democracy-building as expressly authorized in the Cuban 
     Liberty and Democratic Solidarity (LIBERTAD) Act of 1996 and 
     the Cuban Democracy Act of 1992.
       (d) Haiti.--
       (1) Certification.--Funds appropriated by this Act under 
     the headings ``Development Assistance'' and ``Economic 
     Support Fund'' that are made available for assistance for 
     Haiti may not be made available for assistance for the 
     central Government of Haiti unless the Secretary of State 
     certifies and reports to the Committees on Appropriations 
     that such government is taking effective steps, which are in 
     addition to steps taken since the certification and report 
     submitted during the prior year, if applicable, to--
       (A) strengthen the rule of law in Haiti, including by--
       (i) selecting judges in a transparent manner based on 
     merit;
       (ii) reducing pre-trial detention; and
       (iii) respecting the independence of the judiciary.
       (B) combat corruption, including by implementing the anti-
     corruption law enacted in 2014 and prosecuting corrupt 
     officials; and
       (C) increase government revenues, including by implementing 
     tax reforms, and increase expenditures on public services.
       (2) Haitian coast guard.--The Government of Haiti shall be 
     eligible to purchase defense articles and services under the 
     Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.) for the 
     Coast Guard.

                           europe and eurasia

       Sec. 7046. (a) Assistance for Ukraine.--Of the funds 
     appropriated by this Act under titles III and IV, not less 
     than $410,465,000 shall be made available for assistance for 
     Ukraine.
       (b) Limitation.--None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
     may be made available for assistance for a government of an 
     Independent State of the former Soviet Union if such 
     government directs any action in violation of the territorial 
     integrity or national sovereignty of any other Independent 
     State of the former Soviet Union, such as those violations 
     included in the Helsinki Final Act: Provided, That except as 
     otherwise provided in section 7070(a) of this Act, funds may 
     be made available without regard to the restriction in this 
     subsection if the President determines that to do so is in 
     the national security interest of the United States: Provided 
     further, That prior to executing the authority contained in 
     the previous proviso the Secretary of State shall consult 
     with the Committees on Appropriations on how such assistance 
     supports the national security interest of the United States.
       (c) Section 907 of the Freedom Support Act.--Section 907 of 
     the FREEDOM Support Act shall not apply to--
       (1) activities to support democracy or assistance under 
     title V of the FREEDOM Support Act and section 1424 of the 
     Defense Against Weapons of Mass Destruction Act of 1996 (50 
     U.S.C. 2333) or non-proliferation assistance;
       (2) any assistance provided by the Trade and Development 
     Agency under section 661 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
     1961 (22 U.S.C. 2421);
       (3) any activity carried out by a member of the United 
     States and Foreign Commercial Service while acting within his 
     or her official capacity;
       (4) any insurance, reinsurance, guarantee, or other 
     assistance provided by the Overseas Private Investment 
     Corporation under title IV of chapter 2 of part I of the 
     Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2191 et seq.);
       (5) any financing provided under the Export-Import Bank Act 
     of 1945; or
       (6) humanitarian assistance.

                          war crimes tribunals

       Sec. 7047.  If the President determines that doing so will 
     contribute to a just resolution of charges regarding genocide 
     or other violations of international humanitarian law, the 
     President may direct a drawdown pursuant to section 552(c) of 
     the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 of up to $30,000,000 of 
     commodities and services for the United Nations War Crimes 
     Tribunal established with regard to the former Yugoslavia by 
     the United Nations Security Council or such other tribunals 
     or commissions as the Council may establish or authorize to 
     deal with such violations, without regard to the ceiling 
     limitation contained in paragraph (2) thereof: Provided, That 
     the determination required under this section shall be in 
     lieu of any determinations otherwise required under section 
     552(c): Provided further, That funds made available pursuant 
     to this section shall be made available subject to the 
     regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
     Appropriations.

                             united nations

       Sec. 7048. (a) Transparency and Accountability.--
       (1) Of the funds appropriated under title I of this Act 
     that are available for contributions to the United Nations 
     (including the Department of Peacekeeping Operations), any 
     United Nations agency, or the Organization of American 
     States, 15 percent may not be obligated for such 
     organization, department, or agency until the Secretary of 
     State determines and reports to the Committees on 
     Appropriations that the organization, department, or agency 
     is--
       (A) posting on a publicly available Web site, consistent 
     with privacy regulations and due process, regular financial 
     and programmatic audits of such organization, department, or 
     agency, and providing the United States Government with 
     necessary access to such financial and performance audits;
       (B) effectively implementing and enforcing policies and 
     procedures which reflect best practices for the protection of 
     whistleblowers from retaliation, including best practices 
     for--
       (i) protection against retaliation for internal and lawful 
     public disclosures;
       (ii) legal burdens of proof;
       (iii) statutes of limitation for reporting retaliation;
       (iv) access to independent adjudicative bodies, including 
     external arbitration; and
       (v) results that eliminate the effects of proven 
     retaliation; and
       (C) effectively implementing and enforcing policies and 
     procedures regarding travel, including a prohibition on first 
     class travel.
       (2) The restrictions imposed by or pursuant to paragraph 
     (1) may be waived on a case-by-case basis if the Secretary of 
     State determines and reports to the Committees on 
     Appropriations that such waiver is necessary to avert or 
     respond to a humanitarian crisis.
       (b) Restrictions on United Nations Delegations and 
     Organizations.--
       (1) None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
     used to pay expenses for any United States delegation to any 
     specialized agency, body, or commission of the United Nations 
     if such agency, body, or commission is chaired or presided 
     over by a country, the government of which the Secretary of 
     State has determined, for purposes of section 6(j)(1) of the 
     Export Administration Act of 1979 as continued in effect 
     pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act 
     (50 U.S.C. App. 2405(j)(1)), supports international 
     terrorism.
       (2) None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
     used by the Secretary of State as a contribution to any 
     organization, agency, commission, or program within the 
     United Nations system if such organization, agency, 
     commission, or program is chaired or presided over by a 
     country the government of which the Secretary of State has 
     determined, for purposes of section 620A of the Foreign 
     Assistance Act of 1961, section 40 of the Arms Export Control 
     Act, section 6(j)(1) of the Export Administration Act of 
     1979, or any other provision of law, is a government that has 
     repeatedly provided support for acts of international 
     terrorism.
       (c) United Nations Human Rights Council.--None of the funds 
     appropriated by this Act may be made available in support of 
     the United Nations Human Rights Council unless the Secretary 
     of State determines and reports to the Committees on 
     Appropriations that participation in the Council is in the 
     national security interest of the United States and that such 
     Council is taking significant steps to remove Israel as a 
     permanent agenda item and increase transparency in the 
     election of members to such Council: Provided, That such 
     report shall include a description of the national security 
     interest served and the steps taken to remove Israel as a 
     permanent agenda item and increase transparency in the 
     election of members to such Council: Provided further, That 
     the Secretary of State shall report to the Committees on 
     Appropriations not later than September 30, 2018, on the 
     resolutions considered in the United Nations Human Rights 
     Council during the previous 12 months, and on steps

[[Page H6969]]

     taken to remove Israel as a permanent agenda item and 
     increase transparency in the election of members to such 
     Council.
       (d) United Nations Relief and Works Agency.--None of the 
     funds made available by this Act under the heading 
     ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'' may be made available as 
     a contribution to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency 
     (UNRWA) until the Secretary of State certifies and reports to 
     the Committees on Appropriations, in writing, that UNRWA is--
       (1) utilizing Operations Support Officers in the West Bank, 
     Gaza, and other fields of operation to inspect UNRWA 
     installations and reporting any inappropriate use;
       (2) acting promptly to address any staff or beneficiary 
     violation of its own policies (including the policies on 
     neutrality and impartiality of employees) and the legal 
     requirements under section 301(c) of the Foreign Assistance 
     Act of 1961;
       (3) implementing procedures to maintain the neutrality of 
     its facilities, including implementing a no-weapons policy, 
     and conducting regular inspections of its installations, to 
     ensure they are only used for humanitarian or other 
     appropriate purposes;
       (4) taking necessary and appropriate measures to ensure it 
     is operating in compliance with the conditions of section 
     301(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and continuing 
     regular reporting to the Department of State on actions it 
     has taken to ensure conformance with such conditions;
       (5) taking steps to ensure the content of all educational 
     materials currently taught in UNRWA-administered schools and 
     summer camps is consistent with the values of human rights, 
     dignity, and tolerance and does not induce incitement;
       (6) not engaging in operations with financial institutions 
     or related entities in violation of relevant United States 
     law, and is taking steps to improve the financial 
     transparency of the organization; and
       (7) in compliance with the United Nations Board of 
     Auditors' biennial audit requirements and is implementing in 
     a timely fashion the Board's recommendations.
       (e) Prohibition of Payments to United Nations Members.--
     None of the funds appropriated or made available pursuant to 
     titles III through VI of this Act for carrying out the 
     Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, may be used to pay in whole 
     or in part any assessments, arrearages, or dues of any member 
     of the United Nations or, from funds appropriated by this Act 
     to carry out chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance 
     Act of 1961, the costs for participation of another country's 
     delegation at international conferences held under the 
     auspices of multilateral or international organizations.
       (f) Capital Projects.--None of the funds made available by 
     this Act may be used for the design, renovation, or 
     construction of the United Nations Headquarters in New York: 
     Provided, That any operating plan submitted pursuant to this 
     Act for funds made available under the heading 
     ``Contributions to International Organizations'' shall 
     include information on capital projects, as described under 
     such heading in the report accompanying this Act.
       (g) Withholding Report.--Not later than 45 days after 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit a 
     report to the Committees on Appropriations detailing the 
     amount of funds available for obligation or expenditure in 
     fiscal year 2018 for contributions to any organization, 
     department, agency, or program within the United Nations 
     system or any international program that are withheld from 
     obligation or expenditure due to any provision of law: 
     Provided, That the Secretary of State shall update such 
     report each time additional funds are withheld by operation 
     of any provision of law: Provided further, That the 
     reprogramming of any withheld funds identified in such 
     report, including updates thereof, shall be subject to prior 
     consultation with, and the regular notification procedures 
     of, the Committees on Appropriations.
       (h) Sexual Exploitation and Abuse in Peacekeeping 
     Operations.--Funds appropriated by this Act shall be made 
     available to implement section 301 of the Department of State 
     Authorities Act, Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-323).
       (i) Additional Availability.--Funds appropriated under 
     title I of this Act which are returned or not made available 
     due to the implementation of subsection (a) or the second 
     proviso under the heading ``Contributions for International 
     Peacekeeping Activities'' of such title shall remain 
     available for obligation until September 30, 2019.
       (j) Waiver.--The restrictions imposed by or pursuant to 
     subsection (d) may be waived on a case-by-case basis by the 
     Secretary of State if the Secretary determines and reports to 
     the Committees on Appropriations that such waiver is 
     necessary to avert or respond to a humanitarian crisis.

                   community-based police assistance

       Sec. 7049. (a) Authority.--Funds made available by titles 
     III and IV of this Act to carry out the provisions of chapter 
     1 of part I and chapters 4 and 6 of part II of the Foreign 
     Assistance Act of 1961, may be used, notwithstanding section 
     660 of that Act, to enhance the effectiveness and 
     accountability of civilian police authority through training 
     and technical assistance in human rights, the rule of law, 
     anti-corruption, strategic planning, and through assistance 
     to foster civilian police roles that support democratic 
     governance, including assistance for programs to prevent 
     conflict, respond to disasters, address gender-based 
     violence, and foster improved police relations with the 
     communities they serve.
       (b) Notification.--Assistance provided under subsection (a) 
     shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of 
     the Committees on Appropriations.

                 prohibition on publicity or propaganda

       Sec. 7050.  No part of any appropriation contained in this 
     Act shall be used for publicity or propaganda purposes within 
     the United States not authorized before the date of the 
     enactment of this Act by Congress: Provided, That not to 
     exceed $25,000 may be made available to carry out the 
     provisions of section 316 of the International Security and 
     Development Cooperation Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-533).

                       international conferences

       Sec. 7051.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
     may be used to send or otherwise pay for the attendance of 
     more than 50 employees of agencies or departments of the 
     United States Government who are stationed in the United 
     States, at any single international conference occurring 
     outside the United States, unless the Secretary of State 
     reports to the Committees on Appropriations at least 5 days 
     in advance that such attendance is important to the national 
     interest: Provided, That for purposes of this section the 
     term ``international conference'' shall mean a conference 
     attended by representatives of the United States Government 
     and of foreign governments, international organizations, or 
     nongovernmental organizations.

                aircraft transfer, coordination, and use

       Sec. 7052. (a) Transfer Authority.--Notwithstanding any 
     other provision of law or regulation, aircraft procured with 
     funds appropriated by this Act and prior Acts making 
     appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
     operations, and related programs under the headings 
     ``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'', ``International 
     Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', ``Andean Counterdrug 
     Initiative'', and ``Andean Counterdrug Programs'' may be used 
     for any other program and in any region.
       (b) Property Disposal.--The authority provided in 
     subsection (a) shall apply only after the Secretary of State 
     determines and reports to the Committees on Appropriations 
     that the equipment is no longer required to meet programmatic 
     purposes in the designated country or region: Provided, That 
     any such transfer shall be subject to prior consultation 
     with, and the regular notification procedures of, the 
     Committees on Appropriations.
       (c) Aircraft Coordination.--
       (1) The uses of aircraft purchased or leased by the 
     Department of State and the United States Agency for 
     International Development with funds made available in this 
     Act or prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of 
     State, foreign operations, and related programs shall be 
     coordinated under the authority of the appropriate Chief of 
     Mission: Provided, That such aircraft may be used to 
     transport, on a reimbursable or non-reimbursable basis, 
     Federal and non-Federal personnel supporting Department of 
     State and USAID programs and activities: Provided further, 
     That official travel for other agencies for other purposes 
     may be supported on a reimbursable basis, or without 
     reimbursement when traveling on a space available basis: 
     Provided further, That funds received by the Department of 
     State in connection with the use of aircraft owned, leased, 
     or chartered by the Department of State may be credited to 
     the Working Capital Fund of the Department and shall be 
     available for expenses related to the purchase, lease, 
     maintenance, chartering, or operation of such aircraft.
       (2) The requirement and authorities of this subsection 
     shall only apply to aircraft, the primary purpose of which is 
     the transportation of personnel.
       (d) Aircraft Operations and Maintenance.--To the maximum 
     extent practicable, the costs of operations and maintenance, 
     including fuel, of aircraft funded by this Act shall be borne 
     by the recipient country.

   parking fines and real property taxes owed by foreign governments

       Sec. 7053.  The terms and conditions of section 7055 of the 
     Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
     Appropriations Act, 2011 (division F of Public Law 111-117) 
     shall apply to this Act: Provided, That the date ``September 
     30, 2009'' in subsection (f)(2)(B) of such section shall be 
     deemed to be ``September 30, 2017''.

                    landmines and cluster munitions

       Sec. 7054. (a) Landmines.--Notwithstanding any other 
     provision of law, demining equipment available to the United 
     States Agency for International Development and the 
     Department of State and used in support of the clearance of 
     landmines and unexploded ordnance for humanitarian purposes 
     may be disposed of on a grant basis in foreign countries, 
     subject to such terms and conditions as the Secretary of 
     State may prescribe.
       (b) Cluster Munitions.--No military assistance shall be 
     furnished for cluster munitions, no defense export license 
     for cluster munitions may be issued, and no cluster munitions 
     or cluster munitions technology shall be sold or transferred, 
     unless--
       (1) the submunitions of the cluster munitions, after 
     arming, do not result in more than 1 percent unexploded 
     ordnance across the range of intended operational 
     environments, and the agreement applicable to the

[[Page H6970]]

     assistance, transfer, or sale of such cluster munitions or 
     cluster munitions technology specifies that the cluster 
     munitions will only be used against clearly defined military 
     targets and will not be used where civilians are known to be 
     present or in areas normally inhabited by civilians; or
       (2) such assistance, license, sale, or transfer is for the 
     purpose of demilitarizing or permanently disposing of such 
     cluster munitions.

 continuous supervision and general direction of economic and military 
                               assistance

       Sec. 7055. (a) Under the direction of the President, the 
     Secretary of State should be responsible for the continuous 
     supervision and general direction of economic assistance, law 
     enforcement and justice sector assistance, military 
     assistance, and military education and training programs, 
     including but not limited to determining whether there shall 
     be a military assistance (including civic action) or a 
     military education and training program for a country and the 
     value thereof, to the end that such programs are effectively 
     integrated both at home and abroad and the foreign policy of 
     the United States is best served thereby.
       (b) Consistent with section 481(b) of the Foreign 
     Assistance Act of 1961, the Secretary of State shall be 
     responsible for coordinating all assistance provided by the 
     United States Government to support international efforts to 
     combat illicit narcotics production or trafficking: Provided, 
     That the provision of assistance by the Department of Defense 
     which is comparable to assistance that may be made available 
     by this Act under the heading ``International Narcotics 
     Control and Law Enforcement'' should be provided in a manner 
     consistent with the requirements of section 333(b) of title 
     10, United States Code, as added by section 1241 of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
     (Public Law 114-328).

     limitations related to family planning and reproductive health

       Sec. 7056. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available by this Act may be made available for the 
     United Nations Population Fund.
       (b) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available by this Act for global health assistance may be 
     made available to any foreign nongovernmental organization 
     that promotes or performs abortion, except in cases of rape 
     or incest or when the life of the mother would be endangered 
     if the fetus were carried to term.

     united states agency for international development management

       Sec. 7057. (a) Authority.--Up to $93,000,000 of the funds 
     made available in title III of this Act pursuant to or to 
     carry out the provisions of part I of the Foreign Assistance 
     Act of 1961, including funds appropriated under the heading 
     ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'', may be 
     used by the United States Agency for International 
     Development to hire and employ individuals in the United 
     States and overseas on a limited appointment basis pursuant 
     to the authority of sections 308 and 309 of the Foreign 
     Service Act of 1980.
       (b) Restrictions.--
       (1) The number of individuals hired in any fiscal year 
     pursuant to the authority contained in subsection (a) may not 
     exceed 175.
       (2) The authority to hire individuals contained in 
     subsection (a) shall expire on September 30, 2019.
       (c) Conditions.--The authority of subsection (a) should 
     only be used to the extent that an equivalent number of 
     positions that are filled by personal services contractors or 
     other non-direct hire employees of USAID, who are compensated 
     with funds appropriated to carry out part I of the Foreign 
     Assistance Act of 1961, including funds appropriated under 
     the heading ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central 
     Asia'', are eliminated.
       (d) Program Account Charged.--The account charged for the 
     cost of an individual hired and employed under the authority 
     of this section shall be the account to which the 
     responsibilities of such individual primarily relate:  
     Provided, That funds made available to carry out this section 
     may be transferred to, and merged with, funds appropriated by 
     this Act in title II under the heading ``Operating 
     Expenses''.
       (e) Foreign Service Limited Extensions.--Individuals hired 
     and employed by USAID, with funds made available in this Act 
     or prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of 
     State, foreign operations, and related programs, pursuant to 
     the authority of section 309 of the Foreign Service Act of 
     1980, may be extended for a period of up to 4 years 
     notwithstanding the limitation set forth in such section.
       (f) Disaster Surge Capacity.--Funds appropriated under 
     title III of this Act to carry out part I of the Foreign 
     Assistance Act of 1961, including funds appropriated under 
     the heading ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central 
     Asia'', may be used, in addition to funds otherwise available 
     for such purposes, for the cost (including the support costs) 
     of individuals detailed to or employed by USAID whose primary 
     responsibility is to carry out programs in response to 
     natural disasters, or man-made disasters subject to the 
     regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
     Appropriations.
       (g) Personal Services Contractors.--Funds appropriated by 
     this Act to carry out chapter 1 of part I, chapter 4 of part 
     II, and section 667 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
     and title II of the Food for Peace Act (Public Law 83-480), 
     may be used by USAID to employ up to 40 personal services 
     contractors in the United States, notwithstanding any other 
     provision of law, for the purpose of providing direct, 
     interim support for new or expanded overseas programs and 
     activities managed by the agency until permanent direct hire 
     personnel are hired and trained: Provided, That not more than 
     15 of such contractors shall be assigned to any bureau or 
     office: Provided further, That such funds appropriated to 
     carry out title II of the Food for Peace Act (Public Law 83-
     480), may be made available only for personal services 
     contractors assigned to the Office of Food for Peace.
       (h) Small Business.--In entering into multiple award 
     indefinite-quantity contracts with funds appropriated by this 
     Act, USAID may provide an exception to the fair opportunity 
     process for placing task orders under such contracts when the 
     order is placed with any category of small or small 
     disadvantaged business.
       (i) Senior Foreign Service Limited Appointments.--
     Individuals hired pursuant to the authority provided by 
     section 7059(o) of the Department of State, Foreign 
     Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2011 
     (division F of Public Law 111-117) may be assigned to or 
     support programs in Afghanistan or Pakistan with funds made 
     available in this Act and prior Acts making appropriations 
     for the Department of State, foreign operations, and related 
     programs.

                        global health activities

       Sec. 7058. (a) In General.--Funds appropriated by titles 
     III and IV of this Act that are made available for bilateral 
     assistance for child survival activities or disease programs 
     including activities relating to research on, and the 
     prevention, treatment and control of, HIV/AIDS may be made 
     available notwithstanding any other provision of law except 
     for provisions under the heading ``Global Health Programs'' 
     and the United States Leadership Against HIV/AIDS, 
     Tuberculosis, and Malaria Act of 2003 (117 Stat. 711; 22 
     U.S.C. 7601 et seq.), as amended.
       (b) Limitation.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act, not 
     more than $461,000,000 may be made available for family 
     planning/reproductive health.
       (c) Global Fund.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act 
     that are available for a contribution to the Global Fund to 
     Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria (Global Fund), 10 
     percent should be withheld from obligation until the 
     Secretary of State determines and reports to the Committees 
     on Appropriations that the Global Fund is--
       (1) maintaining and implementing a policy of transparency, 
     including the authority of the Global Fund Office of the 
     Inspector General (OIG) to publish OIG reports on a public 
     Web site;
       (2) providing sufficient resources to maintain an 
     independent OIG that--
       (A) reports directly to the Board of the Global Fund;
       (B) maintains a mandate to conduct thorough investigations 
     and programmatic audits, free from undue interference; and
       (C) compiles regular, publicly published audits and 
     investigations of financial, programmatic, and reporting 
     aspects of the Global Fund, its grantees, recipients, sub-
     recipients, and Local Fund Agents;
       (3) effectively implementing and enforcing policies and 
     procedures which reflect best practices for the protection of 
     whistleblowers from retaliation, including best practices 
     for--
       (A) protection against retaliation for internal and lawful 
     public disclosures;
       (B) legal burdens of proof;
       (C) statutes of limitation for reporting retaliation;
       (D) access to independent adjudicative bodies, including 
     external arbitration; and
       (E) results that eliminate the effects of proven 
     retaliation; and
       (4) implementing the recommendations contained in the 
     Consolidated Transformation Plan approved by the Board of the 
     Global Fund on November 21, 2011:
      Provided, That such withholding shall not be in addition to 
     funds that are withheld from the Global Fund in fiscal year 
     2018 pursuant to the application of any other provision 
     contained in this or any other Act.
       (d) Contagious Infectious Disease Outbreaks.--
       (1) Emergency reserve fund.--Of the funds appropriated by 
     this Act under the heading ``Global Health Programs'', 
     $10,000,000 shall be for the Emergency Reserve Fund 
     established pursuant to section 7058(c)(1) of the Department 
     of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
     Appropriations Act, 2017 (division J of Public Law 115-31) 
     and shall be available under the same terms and conditions of 
     such section.
       (2) Extraordinary measures.--If the Secretary of State 
     determines and reports to the Committees on Appropriations 
     that an international infectious disease outbreak is 
     sustained, severe, and is spreading internationally, or that 
     it is in the national interest to respond to a Public Health 
     Emergency of International Concern, funds appropriated by 
     this Act under the headings ``Global Health Programs'', 
     ``Development Assistance'', ``International Disaster 
     Assistance'', ``Economic Support Fund'', ``Democracy Fund'', 
     ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'', 
     ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'', and ``Millennium 
     Challenge Corporation'' may be made available to combat such 
     infectious disease or public health emergency,

[[Page H6971]]

     and may be transferred to, and merged with, funds 
     appropriated under such headings for the purposes of this 
     paragraph.
       (3) Oversight of funds.--Funds made available pursuant to 
     the authority of this subsection shall be subject to prior 
     consultation with the appropriate congressional committees 
     and the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
     Appropriations.
       (e) Malaria and Other Infectious Diseases.--Of the 
     unobligated balances available under the heading ``Bilateral 
     Economic Assistance'' in title IX of division J of the 
     Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2015 
     (Public Law 113-235), $250,000,000 shall be available for 
     assistance or research to detect, prevent, treat, and control 
     malaria, and $72,500,000 shall be for assistance or research 
     to detect, prevent, treat, and control emerging infectious 
     diseases in countries at risk of such diseases: Provided, 
     That amounts made available under this section are designated 
     by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
     section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985 and shall be available only if 
     the President subsequently so designates all such amounts and 
     transmits such designations to the Congress.

                            gender equality

       Sec. 7059. (a) Gender Equality.--Funds appropriated by this 
     Act shall be made available to promote gender equality in 
     United States Government diplomatic and development efforts 
     by raising the status, increasing the participation, and 
     protecting the rights of women and girls worldwide.
       (b) Women's Leadership.--Of the funds appropriated by title 
     III of this Act, not less than $50,000,000 shall be made 
     available to increase leadership opportunities for women in 
     countries where women and girls suffer discrimination due to 
     law, policy, or practice, by strengthening protections for 
     women's political status, expanding women's participation in 
     political parties and elections, and increasing women's 
     opportunities for leadership positions in the public and 
     private sectors at the local, provincial, and national 
     levels.
       (c) Gender-based Violence.--
       (1)(A) Of the funds appropriated by titles III and IV of 
     this Act, not less than $150,000,000 shall be made available 
     to implement a multi-year strategy to prevent and respond to 
     gender-based violence in countries where it is common in 
     conflict and non-conflict settings.
       (B) Funds appropriated by titles III and IV of this Act 
     that are available to train foreign police, judicial, and 
     military personnel, including for international peacekeeping 
     operations, shall address, where appropriate, prevention and 
     response to gender-based violence and trafficking in persons, 
     and shall promote the integration of women into the police 
     and other security forces.
       (2) Department of State and United States Agency for 
     International Development gender programs shall incorporate 
     coordinated efforts to combat a variety of forms of gender-
     based violence, including child marriage, rape, female 
     genital cutting and mutilation, and domestic violence, among 
     other forms of gender-based violence in conflict and non-
     conflict settings.
       (d) Women, Peace, and Security.--Funds appropriated by this 
     Act under the headings ``Development Assistance'', ``Economic 
     Support Fund'', ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central 
     Asia'', and ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
     Enforcement'' should be made available to support a multi-
     year strategy to expand, and improve coordination of, United 
     States Government efforts to empower women as equal partners 
     in conflict prevention, peace building, transitional 
     processes, and reconstruction efforts in countries affected 
     by conflict or in political transition, and to ensure the 
     equitable provision of relief and recovery assistance to 
     women and girls.

                           sector allocations

       Sec. 7060. (a) Basic Education and Higher Education.--
       (1) Basic education.--
       (A) Of the funds appropriated under title III of this Act, 
     not less than $800,000,000 shall be made available for 
     assistance for basic education, and such funds may be made 
     available notwithstanding any other provision of law that 
     restricts assistance to foreign countries.
       (B) Not later than 30 days after enactment of this Act, the 
     Administrator of the United States Agency for International 
     Development shall report to the Committees on Appropriations 
     on the status of cumulative unobligated balances and 
     obligated, but unexpended, balances in each country where 
     USAID provides basic education assistance and such report 
     shall also include details on the types of contracts and 
     grants provided and the goals and objectives of such 
     assistance: Provided, That the USAID Administrator shall 
     update such report on a quarterly basis until September 30, 
     2019.
       (C) Of the funds appropriated under title III of this Act 
     for assistance for basic education programs, not less than 
     $87,500,000 shall be made available for a contribution to 
     multilateral partnerships that support education.
       (2) Higher education.--Of the funds appropriated by title 
     III of this Act, not less than $235,000,000 shall be made 
     available for assistance for higher education, including not 
     less than $35,000,000 for new and ongoing partnerships for 
     human and institutional capacity building between higher 
     education institutions in the United States and developing 
     countries.
       (b) Conservation Programs and Limitations.--
       (1) Biodiversity.--
       (A) Of the funds appropriated under title III of this Act, 
     not less than $265,000,000 shall be made available for 
     biodiversity conservation programs.
       (B) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
     ``Economic Support Fund'', $102,375,000 shall be made 
     available for a multilateral funding facility to support 
     biodiversity conservation programs: Provided, That such funds 
     may only be made available on a grant basis: Provided 
     further, That such funds are in addition to amounts specified 
     in subparagraph (A) and are subject to prior consultation 
     with, and the regular notification procedures of, the 
     Committees on Appropriations.
       (2) Wildlife poaching and trafficking.--
       (A) Not less than $90,664,000 of the funds appropriated 
     under titles III and IV of this Act shall be made available 
     to combat the transnational threat of wildlife poaching and 
     trafficking.
       (B) None of the funds appropriated under title IV of this 
     Act may be made available for training or other assistance 
     for any military unit or personnel that the Secretary of 
     State determines has been credibly alleged to have 
     participated in wildlife poaching or trafficking, unless the 
     Secretary reports to the appropriate congressional committees 
     that to do so is in the national security interest of the 
     United States.
       (c) Development Programs.--Of the funds appropriated by 
     this Act under the heading ``Development Assistance'', not 
     less than $26,000,000 shall be made available for the 
     American Schools and Hospitals Abroad program, and not less 
     than $12,000,000 shall be made available for cooperative 
     development programs of USAID.
       (d) Food Security and Agricultural Development.--Of the 
     funds appropriated under title III of this Act, not less than 
     $1,000,600,000 should be made available to carry out the 
     provisions of the Global Food Security Act of 2016 (Public 
     Law 114-195), of which not less than $60,000,000 shall be 
     made available for the Feed the Future Innovation Labs: 
     Provided, That funds may be made available for a contribution 
     as authorized by section 3202 of the Food, Conservation, and 
     Energy Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-246), as amended by 
     section 3206 of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-
     79).
       (e) Microenterprise and Microfinance.--Of the funds 
     appropriated by this Act, not less than $265,000,000 should 
     be made available for microenterprise and microfinance 
     development programs for the poor, especially women.
       (f) Programs to Combat Trafficking in Persons.--Of the 
     funds appropriated by this Act under the headings 
     ``Development Assistance'', ``Economic Support Fund'', 
     ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'', and 
     ``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', not 
     less than $65,000,000 shall be made available for activities 
     to combat trafficking in persons internationally, of which 
     not less than $40,000,000 shall be from funds made available 
     under the heading ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
     Enforcement'': Provided, That not later than 120 days after 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit an 
     update to the report required pursuant to section 7060(f)(1) 
     of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related 
     Programs Appropriations Act, 2017 (division J of Public Law 
     115-31).
       (g) Water and Sanitation.--Of the funds appropriated by 
     this Act, not less than $400,000,000 shall be made available 
     for water supply and sanitation projects pursuant to the 
     Senator Paul Simon Water for the Poor Act of 2005 (Public Law 
     109-121), of which not less than $145,000,000 shall be for 
     programs in sub-Saharan Africa.

  countries impacted by significant refugee populations or internally 
                           displaced persons

       Sec. 7061.  Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
     headings ``Development Assistance'' and ``Economic Support 
     Fund'' shall be made available for programs in countries 
     affected by significant populations of internally displaced 
     persons or refugees to--
       (1) expand and improve host government social services and 
     basic infrastructure to accommodate the needs of such 
     populations and persons;
       (2) alleviate the social and economic strains placed on 
     host communities, including through programs to promote 
     livelihoods, vocational training, and formal and informal 
     education;
       (3) improve coordination of such assistance in a more 
     effective and sustainable manner; and
       (4) leverage increased assistance from donors other than 
     the United States Government for central governments and 
     local communities in such countries.

                           arms trade treaty

       Sec. 7062.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may 
     be obligated or expended to implement the Arms Trade Treaty 
     until the Senate approves a resolution of ratification for 
     the Treaty.

                           inspectors general

       Sec. 7063. (a) Prohibition on Use of Funds.--None of the 
     funds appropriated by this Act may be used to deny an 
     Inspector General funded under this Act timely access

[[Page H6972]]

     to any records, documents, or other materials available to 
     the department or agency of the United States Government over 
     which such Inspector General has responsibilities under the 
     Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), or to prevent 
     or impede the access of such Inspector General to such 
     records, documents, or other materials, under any provision 
     of law, except a provision of law that expressly refers to 
     such Inspector General and expressly limits the right of 
     access of such Inspector General.
       (b) Timely Access.--A department or agency of the United 
     States Government covered by this section shall provide its 
     Inspector General access to all records, documents, and other 
     materials in a timely manner.
       (c) Compliance.--Each Inspector General covered by this 
     section shall ensure compliance with statutory limitations on 
     disclosure relevant to the information provided by the 
     department or agency over which that Inspector General has 
     responsibilities under the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 
     U.S.C. App.).
       (d) Report Requirement.--Each Inspector General covered by 
     this section shall report to the Committees on Appropriations 
     within 5 calendar days of any failure by any department or 
     agency of the United States Government to provide its 
     Inspector General access to all requested records, documents, 
     and other materials.

    reporting requirements concerning individuals detained at naval 
                     station, guantanamo bay, cuba

       Sec. 7064.  Not later than 5 days after the conclusion of 
     an agreement with a country, including a state with a compact 
     of free association with the United States, to receive by 
     transfer or release individuals detained at United States 
     Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, the Secretary of State 
     shall notify the Committees on Appropriations in writing of 
     the terms of the agreement, including whether funds 
     appropriated by this Act or prior Acts making appropriations 
     for the Department of State, foreign operations, and related 
     programs will be made available for assistance for such 
     country pursuant to such agreement.

                           multi-year pledges

       Sec. 7065.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may 
     be used to make any pledge for future year funding for any 
     multilateral or bilateral program funded in titles III 
     through VI of this Act unless such pledge was--
       (1) previously justified, including the projected future 
     year costs, in a congressional budget justification;
       (2) included in an Act making appropriations for the 
     Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs 
     or previously authorized by an Act of Congress;
       (3) notified in accordance with the regular notification 
     procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, including the 
     projected future year costs; or
       (4) the subject of prior consultation with the Committees 
     on Appropriations and such consultation was conducted at 
     least 7 days in advance of the pledge.

                     prohibition on use of torture

       Sec. 7066.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
     may be used to support or justify the use of torture, cruel, 
     or inhumane treatment by any official or contract employee of 
     the United States Government.

                              extradition

       Sec. 7067. (a) Limitation.--None of the funds appropriated 
     in this Act may be used to provide assistance (other than 
     funds provided under the headings ``International Disaster 
     Assistance'', ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
     Enforcement'', ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'', and 
     ``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and Related 
     Assistance'') for the central government of a country which 
     has notified the Department of State of its refusal to 
     extradite to the United States any individual indicted for a 
     criminal offense for which the maximum penalty is life 
     imprisonment without the possibility of parole or for killing 
     a law enforcement officer, as specified in a United States 
     extradition request.
       (b) Clarification.--Subsection (a) shall only apply to the 
     central government of a country with which the United States 
     maintains diplomatic relations and with which the United 
     States has an extradition treaty and the government of that 
     country is in violation of the terms and conditions of the 
     treaty.
       (c) Waiver.--The Secretary of State may waive the 
     restriction in subsection (a) on a case-by-case basis if the 
     Secretary certifies to the Committees on Appropriations that 
     such waiver is important to the national interests of the 
     United States.

                 commercial leasing of defense articles

       Sec. 7068.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and 
     subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
     Committees on Appropriations, the authority of section 23(a) 
     of the Arms Export Control Act may be used to provide 
     financing to Israel, Egypt, and the North Atlantic Treaty 
     Organization (NATO), and major non-NATO allies for the 
     procurement by leasing (including leasing with an option to 
     purchase) of defense articles from United States commercial 
     suppliers, not including Major Defense Equipment (other than 
     helicopters and other types of aircraft having possible 
     civilian application), if the President determines that there 
     are compelling foreign policy or national security reasons 
     for those defense articles being provided by commercial lease 
     rather than by government-to-government sale under such Act.

                               rescissions

                    (including rescission of funds)

       Sec. 7069. (a) Assistance.--Of the unobligated balances 
     available to the President under the heading ``Development 
     Assistance'', as identified by Treasury Appropriation Fund 
     Symbol 72 X 1021, $29,906,927.46 are rescinded.
       (b) North American Development Bank.--The unobligated 
     balances available under the heading ``Contribution to the 
     North American Development Bank'' in the Department of State, 
     Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
     2016 (division K of Public Law 114-113) are rescinded.
       (c) Export-Import Bank.--Of the unobligated balances under 
     the heading ``Export and Investment Assistance, Export-Import 
     Bank of the United States, Subsidy Appropriation'' for tied-
     aid grants in prior Acts making appropriations for the 
     Department of State, foreign operations, and related 
     programs, $165,000,000 are rescinded.
       (d) Sec. 129 of Public Law 110-329.--Of the unobligated 
     balances available for ``Department of Energy--Energy 
     Programs--Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Loan 
     Program Account'' under section 129 of the Continuing 
     Appropriations Resolution, 2009 (division A of Public Law 
     110-329), $1,965,575,000 is hereby rescinded.

              countering russian influence and aggression

       Sec. 7070. (a) Limitation.--None of the funds appropriated 
     by this Act may be made available for assistance for the 
     central Government of the Russian Federation.
       (b) Annexation of Crimea.--
       (1) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be made 
     available for assistance for the central government of a 
     country that the Secretary of State determines and reports to 
     the Committees on Appropriations has taken affirmative steps 
     intended to support or be supportive of the Russian 
     Federation annexation of Crimea: Provided, That except as 
     otherwise provided in subsection (a), the Secretary may waive 
     the restriction on assistance required by this paragraph if 
     the Secretary determines and reports to such Committees that 
     to do so is in the national interest of the United States, 
     and includes a justification for such interest.
       (2) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be made 
     available for--
       (A) the implementation of any action or policy that 
     recognizes the sovereignty of the Russian Federation over 
     Crimea;
       (B) the facilitation, financing, or guarantee of United 
     States Government investments in Crimea, if such activity 
     includes the participation of Russian Government officials, 
     or other Russian owned or controlled financial entities; or
       (C) assistance for Crimea, if such assistance includes the 
     participation of Russian Government officials, or other 
     Russian owned or controlled financial entities.
       (3) The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United 
     States executive directors of each international financial 
     institution to vote against any assistance by such 
     institution (including any loan, credit, or guarantee) for 
     any program that violates the sovereignty or territorial 
     integrity of Ukraine.
       (4) The requirements and limitations of this subsection 
     shall cease to be in effect if the Secretary of State 
     determines and reports to the Committees on Appropriations 
     that the Government of Ukraine has reestablished sovereignty 
     over Crimea.
       (c) Occupation of the Georgian Territories of Abkhazia and 
     Tskhinvali Region/South Ossetia.--
       (1) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be made 
     available for assistance for the central government of a 
     country that the Secretary of State determines and reports to 
     the Committees on Appropriations has recognized the 
     independence of, or has established diplomatic relations 
     with, the Russian occupied Georgian territories of Abkhazia 
     and Tskhinvali Region/South Ossetia: Provided, That the 
     Secretary shall publish on the Department of State Web site a 
     list of any such central governments in a timely manner: 
     Provided further, That the Secretary may waive the 
     restriction on assistance required by this paragraph if the 
     Secretary determines and reports to the Committees on 
     Appropriations that to do so is in the national interest of 
     the United States, and includes a justification for such 
     interest.
       (2) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be made 
     available to support the Russian occupation of the Georgian 
     territories of Abkhazia and Tskhinvali Region/South Ossetia.
       (3) The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United 
     States executive directors of each international financial 
     institution to vote against any assistance by such 
     institution (including any loan, credit, or guarantee) for 
     any program that violates the sovereignty and territorial 
     integrity of Georgia.
       (d) Assistance to Counter Influence and Aggression.--
       (1) Funds appropriated by this Act under the headings 
     ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'', 
     ``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', 
     ``International Military Education and Training'', and 
     ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' shall be made 
     available for assistance to counter Russian influence and 
     aggression in countries in Europe and Eurasia.
       (2) Funds appropriated by this Act and made available for 
     assistance for the Eastern

[[Page H6973]]

     Partnership countries shall be made available to advance the 
     implementation of Association Agreements and trade agreements 
     with the European Union, and to reduce their vulnerability to 
     external economic and political pressure from the Russian 
     Federation.
       (e) Democracy Programs.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
     shall be made available to support democracy programs in the 
     Russian Federation, including to promote Internet freedom, 
     and shall also be made available to support the democracy and 
     rule of law strategy required by section 7071(d) of the 
     Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
     Appropriations Act, 2014 (division K of Public Law 113-76).
       (f) Reports.--Not later than 45 days after enactment of 
     this Act, the Secretary of State shall update the reports 
     required by subsections (b)(2) and (e) of section 7071 of the 
     Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
     Appropriations Act, 2014 (division K of Public Law 113-76).

                      international monetary fund

       Sec. 7071. (a) Extensions.--The terms and conditions of 
     sections 7086(b) (1) and (2) and 7090(a) of the Department of 
     State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
     Appropriations Act, 2010 (division F of Public Law 111-117) 
     shall apply to this Act.
       (b) Repayment.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall 
     instruct the United States Executive Director of the 
     International Monetary Fund (IMF) to seek to ensure that any 
     loan will be repaid to the IMF before other private 
     creditors.

                    special defense acquisition fund

       Sec. 7072.  Not to exceed $900,000,000 may be obligated 
     pursuant to section 51(c)(2) of the Arms Export Control Act 
     for the purposes of the Special Defense Acquisition Fund 
     (Fund), to remain available for obligation until September 
     30, 2020: Provided, That the provision of defense articles 
     and defense services to foreign countries or international 
     organizations from the Fund shall be subject to the 
     concurrence of the Secretary of State.

        countering foreign fighters and extremist organizations

       Sec. 7073. (a) Funding.-- Funds appropriated under titles 
     III and IV of this Act shall be made available for programs 
     and activities to counter and defeat violent extremism and 
     foreign fighters abroad, which shall include components to--
       (1) counter the recruitment, radicalization, movement, and 
     financing of such extremists and foreign fighters;
       (2) secure borders of countries impacted by extremism;
       (3) assist countries impacted by extremism to implement and 
     establish criminal laws and policies to counter extremists 
     and foreign fighters; and
       (4) promote and strengthen democratic institutions and 
     practices in countries impacted by extremism.
       (b) Conditions.--The Secretary of State shall--
       (1) promptly inform the appropriate congressional 
     committees of each instance in which assistance provided 
     pursuant to this section has been diverted or destroyed, to 
     include the type and amount of assistance, a description of 
     the incident and parties involved, and an explanation of the 
     response of the Department of State or the United States 
     Agency for International Development, as appropriate; and
       (2) ensure programs to counter and defeat violent extremism 
     and foreign fighters abroad are coordinated with and 
     complement the efforts of other United States Government 
     agencies and international partners.

                            enterprise funds

       Sec. 7074. (a) Notification Requirement.--None of the funds 
     made available under titles III through VI of this Act may be 
     made available for Enterprise Funds unless the appropriate 
     congressional committees are notified at least 15 days in 
     advance.
       (b) Distribution of Assets Plan.--Prior to the distribution 
     of any assets resulting from any liquidation, dissolution, or 
     winding up of an Enterprise Fund, in whole or in part, the 
     President shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
     committees a plan for the distribution of the assets of the 
     Enterprise Fund.
       (c) Transition or Operating Plan.--Prior to a transition to 
     and operation of any private equity fund or other parallel 
     investment fund under an existing Enterprise Fund, the 
     President shall submit such transition or operating plan to 
     the appropriate congressional committees.

               use of funds in contravention of this act

       Sec. 7075.  If the President makes a determination not to 
     comply with any provision of this Act on constitutional 
     grounds, the head of the relevant Federal agency shall notify 
     the Committees on Appropriations in writing within 5 days of 
     such determination, the basis for such determination and any 
     resulting changes to program and policy.

                            budget documents

       Sec. 7076. (a) Operating and Reorganization Plans.--
       (1) Not later than 45 days after the date of enactment of 
     this Act, each department, agency, or organization funded in 
     titles I, II, and VI of this Act, and the Department of the 
     Treasury and Independent Agencies funded in title III of this 
     Act, including the Inter-American Foundation and the United 
     States African Development Foundation, shall submit to the 
     Committees on Appropriations an operating plan for funds 
     appropriated to such department, agency, or organization in 
     such titles of this Act, or funds otherwise available for 
     obligation in fiscal year 2018, that provides details of the 
     uses of such funds at the program, project, and activity 
     level: Provided, That such plans shall include, as 
     applicable, a comparison between the congressional budget 
     justification funding levels, the most recent congressional 
     directives or approved funding levels, and the funding levels 
     proposed by the department or agency; and a clear, concise, 
     and informative description/justification: Provided further, 
     That if such department, agency, or organization receives an 
     additional amount under the same heading in title VIII of 
     this Act, operating plans required by this subsection shall 
     include consolidated information on all such funds: Provided 
     further, That operating plans that include changes in levels 
     of funding for programs, projects, and activities specified 
     in the congressional budget justification, in this Act, or 
     amounts specifically designated in the respective tables 
     included in the report accompanying this Act, as applicable, 
     shall be subject to the notification and reprogramming 
     requirements of section 7015 of this Act.
       (2) Concurrent with the submission of an operating plan 
     pursuant to paragraph (1), each covered department, agency, 
     or organization shall submit to the Committees on 
     Appropriations information detailing any planned 
     reorganization of such department, agency, or organization, 
     including any action planned pursuant to the March 13, 2017 
     Executive Order 13781 on a Comprehensive Plan for 
     Reorganizing the Executive Branch, including--
       (A) a detailed explanation of the plan, including any 
     policies and procedures currently or expected to be used to 
     comply with Executive Order 13781;
       (B) a detailed organization chart, including a brief 
     description of each operating unit; and
       (C) the number of employees for each operating unit.
       (b) Spend Plans.--
       (1) Prior to the initial obligation of funds, the Secretary 
     of State or Administrator of the United States Agency for 
     International Development, as appropriate, shall submit to 
     the Committees on Appropriations a spend plan for funds made 
     available by this Act, for--
       (A) assistance for Afghanistan, Iraq, Lebanon, Pakistan, 
     and the West Bank and Gaza;
       (B) regional security initiatives listed under this section 
     in the report accompanying this Act: Provided, That the spend 
     plan for such initiatives shall include the amount of 
     assistance planned for each country by account, to the 
     maximum extent practicable; and
       (C) democracy programs and sectors enumerated in 
     subsections (a), (b), (d), (f), and (g) of section 7060 of 
     this Act.
       (2) Not later than 45 days after enactment of this Act, the 
     Secretary of the Treasury shall submit to the Committees on 
     Appropriations a detailed spend plan for funds made available 
     by this Act under the heading ``Department of the Treasury, 
     International Affairs Technical Assistance'' in title III.
       (c) Spending Report.--Not later than 45 days after 
     enactment of this Act, the USAID Administrator shall submit 
     to the Committees on Appropriations a detailed report on 
     spending of funds made available during fiscal year 2017 
     under the heading ``Development Credit Authority''.
       (d) Notifications.--The spend plans referenced in 
     subsection (b) shall not be considered as meeting the 
     notification requirements in this Act or under section 634A 
     of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
       (e) Congressional Budget Justification.--
       (1) The congressional budget justification for Department 
     of State operations and foreign operations shall be provided 
     to the Committees on Appropriations concurrent with the date 
     of submission of the President's budget for fiscal year 2019: 
     Provided, That any appendices for such justification shall be 
     provided to the Committees on Appropriations not later than 
     10 calendar days thereafter.
       (2) The Secretary of State and the USAID Administrator 
     shall include in the congressional budget justification a 
     detailed justification for multi-year availability for any 
     funds requested under the headings ``Diplomatic and Consular 
     Programs'' and ``Operating Expenses''.

                     reports and records management

       Sec. 7077. (a) Public Posting of Reports.--
       (1) Requirement.--Any agency receiving funds made available 
     by this Act shall, subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), post on 
     the publicly available Web site of such agency any report 
     required by this Act to be submitted to the Committees on 
     Appropriations, upon a determination by the head of such 
     agency that to do so is in the national interest.
       (2) Exceptions.--Paragraph (1) shall not apply to a report 
     if--
       (A) the public posting of such report would compromise 
     national security, including the conduct of diplomacy; or
       (B) the report contains proprietary, privileged, or 
     sensitive information.
       (3) Timing and intention.--The head of the agency posting 
     such report shall, unless otherwise provided for in this Act, 
     do so only

[[Page H6974]]

     after such report has been made available to the Committees 
     on Appropriations for not less than 45 days: Provided, That 
     any report required by this Act to be submitted to the 
     Committees on Appropriations shall include information from 
     the submitting agency on whether such report will be publicly 
     posted.
       (b) Requests for Documents.--None of the funds appropriated 
     or made available pursuant to titles III through VI of this 
     Act shall be available to a nongovernmental organization, 
     including any contractor, which fails to provide upon timely 
     request any document, file, or record necessary to the 
     auditing requirements of the Department of State and the 
     United States Agency for International Development.
       (c) Records Management.--
       (1) Limitation.--None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
     under the headings ``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'' and 
     ``Capital Investment Fund'' in title I, and ``Operating 
     Expenses'' and ``Capital Investment Fund'' in title II that 
     are made available to the Department of State and USAID may 
     be made available to support the use or establishment of 
     email accounts or email servers created outside the .gov 
     domain or not fitted for automated records management as part 
     of a Federal government records management program in 
     contravention of the Presidential and Federal Records Act 
     Amendments of 2014 (Public Law 113-187).
       (2) Directives.--The Secretary of State and USAID 
     Administrator shall--
       (A) update the policies, directives, and oversight 
     necessary to comply with Federal statutes, regulations, and 
     presidential executive orders and memoranda concerning the 
     preservation of all records made or received in the conduct 
     of official business, including record emails, instant 
     messaging, and other online tools;
       (B) use funds appropriated by this Act under the headings 
     ``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'' and ``Capital Investment 
     Fund'' in title I, and ``Operating Expenses'' and ``Capital 
     Investment Fund'' in title II, as appropriate, to improve 
     Federal records management pursuant to the Federal Records 
     Act (44 U.S.C. Chapters 21, 29, 31, and 33) and other 
     applicable Federal records management statutes, regulations, 
     or policies for the Department of State and USAID;
       (C) direct departing employees that all Federal records 
     generated by such employees, including senior officials, 
     belong to the Federal Government; and
       (D) significantly improve the response time for identifying 
     and retrieving Federal records, including requests made 
     pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act.
       (3) Report.--Not later than 45 days after enactment of this 
     Act, the Secretary of State and USAID Administrator shall 
     each submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations and 
     to the National Archives and Records Administration 
     detailing, as appropriate and where applicable--
       (A) any updates or modifications made to the policy of each 
     agency regarding the use or the establishment of email 
     accounts or email servers created outside the .gov domain or 
     not fitted for automated records management as part of a 
     Federal government records management program since the 
     submission to the Committees on Appropriations of the report 
     required by section 7077(c)(3) of the Department of State, 
     Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
     2017 (division J of Public Law 115-31);
       (B) the extent to which each agency is in compliance with 
     applicable Federal records management statutes, regulations, 
     and policies, including meeting Directive goal 1.2 of the 
     Managing Government Records Directive (M-12-18) by December 
     31, 2016; and
       (C) any steps taken since the submission of the report 
     referenced in subparagraph (A) to--
       (i) comply with paragraph (1)(B) of this subsection;
       (ii) ensure that all employees at every level have been 
     instructed in procedures and processes to ensure that the 
     documentation of their official duties is captured, 
     preserved, managed, protected, and accessible in official 
     Government systems of the Department of State and USAID;
       (iii) implement recommendation 1 made by the Office of 
     Inspector General (OIG), Department of State, in the January 
     2016 Evaluation of the Department of State's FOIA Process for 
     Requests Involving the Office of the Secretary (ESP-16-01);
       (iv) reduce the backlog of Freedom of Information Act 
     (FOIA) and Congressional oversight requests, and measurably 
     improve the response time for answering such requests; and
       (v) strengthen cyber security measures to mitigate 
     vulnerabilities, including those resulting from the use of 
     personal email accounts or servers outside the .gov domain, 
     improve the process to identify and remove inactive user 
     accounts, update and enforce guidance related to the control 
     of national security information, and implement the 
     recommendations of the corresponding reports of the OIG as 
     detailed under this section in the report accompanying this 
     Act.
       (4) Operating plans.--The operating plans required by 
     section 7076(a) of this Act for funds appropriated under the 
     headings listed in paragraph (1) shall include funds planned 
     for--
       (A) implementing the recommendations of the OIG reports 
     referenced in clauses (iii) and (v); and
       (B) measurably reducing the FOIA and Congressional 
     oversight requests backlog.

                        global internet freedom

       Sec. 7078. (a) Funding.--Of the funds available for 
     obligation during fiscal year 2018 under the headings 
     ``International Broadcasting Operations'', ``Economic Support 
     Fund'', ``Democracy Fund'', and ``Assistance for Europe, 
     Eurasia and Central Asia'', not less than $50,500,000 shall 
     be made available for programs to promote Internet freedom 
     globally: Provided, That such programs shall be prioritized 
     for countries whose governments restrict freedom of 
     expression on the Internet, and that are important to the 
     national interests of the United States: Provided further, 
     That funds made available pursuant to this section shall be 
     matched, to the maximum extent practicable, by sources other 
     than the United States Government, including from the private 
     sector.
       (b) Requirements.--
       (1) Funds appropriated by this Act under the headings 
     ``Economic Support Fund'', ``Democracy Fund'', and 
     ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'' that are 
     made available pursuant to subsection (a) shall be--
       (A) coordinated with other democracy programs funded by 
     this Act under such headings, and shall be incorporated into 
     country assistance and democracy promotion strategies, as 
     appropriate;
       (B) for programs to implement the May 2011, International 
     Strategy for Cyberspace; the Department of State 
     International Cyberspace Policy Strategy required by section 
     402 of the Cybersecurity Act of 2015 (division N of Public 
     Law 114-113); and the comprehensive strategy to promote 
     Internet freedom and access to information in Iran, as 
     required by section 414 of the Iran Threat Reduction and 
     Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (22 U.S.C. 8754);
       (C) made available for programs that support the efforts of 
     civil society to counter the development of repressive 
     Internet-related laws and regulations, including countering 
     threats to Internet freedom at international organizations; 
     to combat violence against bloggers and other users; and to 
     enhance digital security training and capacity building for 
     democracy activists;
       (D) made available for research of key threats to Internet 
     freedom; the continued development of technologies that 
     provide or enhance access to the Internet, including 
     circumvention tools that bypass Internet blocking, filtering, 
     and other censorship techniques used by authoritarian 
     governments; and maintenance of the technological advantage 
     of the United States Government over such censorship 
     techniques: Provided, That the Secretary of State, in 
     consultation with the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the 
     Broadcasting Board of Governors (BBG), shall coordinate any 
     such research and development programs with other relevant 
     United States Government departments and agencies in order to 
     share information, technologies, and best practices, and to 
     assess the effectiveness of such technologies; and
       (E) the responsibility of the Assistant Secretary for 
     Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, Department of State.
       (2) Funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
     ``International Broadcasting Operations'' that are made 
     available pursuant to subsection (a) shall be--
       (A) made available only for tools and techniques to 
     securely develop and distribute BBG digital content; 
     facilitate audience access to such content on Web sites that 
     are censored; coordinate the distribution of BBG digital 
     content to targeted regional audiences; and to promote and 
     distribute such tools and techniques, including digital 
     security techniques;
       (B) coordinated with programs funded by this Act under the 
     heading ``International Broadcasting Operations'', and shall 
     be incorporated into country broadcasting strategies, as 
     appropriate;
       (C) coordinated by the BBG CEO to provide Internet 
     circumvention tools and techniques for audiences in countries 
     that are strategic priorities for the BBG and in a manner 
     consistent with the BBG Internet freedom strategy; and
       (D) made available for the research and development of new 
     tools or techniques authorized in paragraph (A) only after 
     the BBG CEO, in consultation with the Secretary of State and 
     other relevant United States Government departments and 
     agencies, evaluates the risks and benefits of such new tools 
     or techniques, and establishes safeguards to minimize the use 
     of such new tools or techniques for illicit purposes.
       (c) Coordination and Spend Plans.--After consultation among 
     the relevant agency heads to coordinate and de-conflict 
     planned activities, but not later than 90 days after 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State and the BBG CEO 
     shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations spend plans 
     for funds made available by this Act for programs to promote 
     Internet freedom globally, which shall include a description 
     of safeguards established by relevant agencies to ensure that 
     such programs are not used for illicit purposes: Provided, 
     That the Department of State spend plan shall include funding 
     for all such programs for all relevant Department of State 
     and USAID offices and bureaus.

                  impact on jobs in the united states

       Sec. 7079.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available under titles III through VI of this Act may be 
     obligated or expended to provide--
       (1) any financial incentive to a business enterprise 
     currently located in the United

[[Page H6975]]

     States for the purpose of inducing such an enterprise to 
     relocate outside the United States if such incentive or 
     inducement is likely to reduce the number of employees of 
     such business enterprise in the United States because United 
     States production is being replaced by such enterprise 
     outside the United States;
       (2) assistance for any program, project, or activity that 
     contributes to the violation of internationally recognized 
     workers' rights, as defined in section 507(4) of the Trade 
     Act of 1974, of workers in the recipient country, including 
     any designated zone or area in that country: Provided, That 
     the application of section 507(4)(D) and (E) of such Act 
     should be commensurate with the level of development of the 
     recipient country and sector, and shall not preclude 
     assistance for the informal sector in such country, micro and 
     small-scale enterprise, and smallholder agriculture;
       (3) any assistance to an entity outside the United States 
     if such assistance is for the purpose of directly relocating 
     or transferring jobs from the United States to other 
     countries and adversely impacts the labor force in the United 
     States; or
       (4) for the enforcement of any rule, regulation, policy, or 
     guidelines implemented pursuant to--
       (A) the third proviso of subsection 7079(b) of the 
     Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2010;
       (B) the modification proposed by the Overseas Private 
     Investment Corporation in November 2013 to the Corporation's 
     Environmental and Social Policy Statement relating to coal;
       (C) the Supplemental Guidelines for High Carbon Intensity 
     Projects approved by the Export-Import Bank of the United 
     States on December 12, 2013; or
       (D) the World Bank Group's Directions for the World Bank 
     Group's Energy Sector released on July 16, 2013,
     when enforcement of such rule, regulation, policy, or 
     guidelines would prohibit, or have the effect of prohibiting, 
     any coal-fired or other power-generation project the purpose 
     of which is to increase exports of goods and services from 
     the United States or prevent the loss of jobs from the United 
     States.


                           quorum requirement

       Sec. 7080.  Section 1 of Public Law 106-46 (12 U.S.C. 635a 
     note) is amended by striking ``July 21, 1999, and ends on 
     December 2, 1999'' and inserting ``October 1, 2017, and ends 
     on September 30, 2019'': Provided, That the amendment made 
     pursuant to this subparagraph to such law shall take effect 
     upon enactment of this Act.

                               TITLE VIII

        OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS/GLOBAL WAR ON TERRORISM

                          DEPARTMENT OF STATE

                   Administration of Foreign Affairs

                    diplomatic and consular programs

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For an additional amount for ``Diplomatic and Consular 
     Programs'', $2,975,971,000, to remain available until 
     September 30, 2019, of which $2,376,122,000 is for Worldwide 
     Security Protection and shall remain available until 
     expended: Provided, That the Secretary of State may transfer 
     up to $5,000,000 of the total funds made available under this 
     heading to any other appropriation of any department or 
     agency of the United States, upon the concurrence of the head 
     of such department or agency, to support operations in and 
     assistance for Afghanistan and to carry out the provisions of 
     the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961: Provided further, That 
     any such transfer shall be subject to the regular 
     notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: 
     Provided further, That such amount is designated by the 
     Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
     Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                      office of inspector general

       For an additional amount for ``Office of Inspector 
     General'', $68,100,000, to remain available until September 
     30, 2019, of which $54,900,000 shall be for the Special 
     Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (SIGAR) for 
     reconstruction oversight: Provided, That printing and 
     reproduction costs of SIGAR shall not exceed amounts for such 
     costs during fiscal year 2017: Provided further, That 
     notwithstanding any other provision of law, any employee of 
     SIGAR who completes at least 12 months of continuous service 
     after the date of enactment of this Act or who is employed on 
     the date on which SIGAR terminates, whichever occurs first, 
     shall acquire competitive status for appointment to any 
     position in the competitive service for which the employee 
     possesses the required qualifications: Provided further, That 
     such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas 
     Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
     section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985.

            embassy security, construction, and maintenance

       For an additional amount for ``Embassy Security, 
     Construction, and Maintenance'', $71,778,000, to remain 
     available until expended, for Worldwide Security Upgrades, 
     acquisition, and construction as authorized: Provided, That 
     such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas 
     Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
     section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                      International Organizations

              contributions to international organizations

       For an additional amount for ``Contributions to 
     International Organizations'', $96,240,000: Provided, That 
     such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas 
     Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
     section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985.

        contributions for international peacekeeping activities

       For an additional amount for ``Contributions for 
     International Peacekeeping Activities'', $965,906,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2019: Provided, That 
     such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas 
     Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
     section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985.

           UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

                           operating expenses

       For an additional amount for ``Operating Expenses'', 
     $136,555,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019: 
     Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
     Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
     pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
     and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                      office of inspector general

       For an additional amount for ``Office of Inspector 
     General'', $2,500,000, to remain available until September 
     30, 2019: Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
     Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
     Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

                   international disaster assistance

       For an additional amount for ``International Disaster 
     Assistance'', $1,788,203,000, to remain available until 
     expended: Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
     Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
     Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                         transition initiatives

       For an additional amount for ``Transition Initiatives'', 
     $62,043,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
     That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas 
     Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
     section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                         economic support fund

       For an additional amount for ``Economic Support Fund'', 
     $2,353,672,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019: 
     Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
     Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
     pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
     and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                          Department of State

                    migration and refugee assistance

       For an additional amount for ``Migration and Refugee 
     Assistance'' to respond to refugee crises, including in 
     Africa, the Near East, South and Central Asia, and Europe and 
     Eurasia, $2,231,198,000, to remain available until expended, 
     except that such funds shall not be made available for the 
     resettlement costs of refugees in the United States: 
     Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
     Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
     pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
     and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                   INTERNATIONAL SECURITY ASSISTANCE

                          Department of State

          international narcotics control and law enforcement

       For an additional amount for ``International Narcotics 
     Control and Law Enforcement'', $417,951,000, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2019: Provided, That such 
     amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

    nonproliferation, anti-terrorism, demining and related programs

       For an additional amount for ``Nonproliferation, Anti-
     terrorism, Demining and Related Programs'', $220,583,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2019: Provided, That 
     such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas 
     Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
     section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                        peacekeeping operations

       For an additional amount for ``Peacekeeping Operations'', 
     $325,213,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019: 
     Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
     Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
     pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
     and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Provided further, 
     That funds available for obligation under this heading in 
     this Act may be

[[Page H6976]]

     used to pay assessed expenses of international peacekeeping 
     activities in Somalia, subject to the regular notification 
     procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

                   foreign military financing program

       For an additional amount for ``Foreign Military Financing 
     Program'', $460,000,000, to remain available until September 
     30, 2019: Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
     Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
     Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                       additional appropriations

       Sec. 8001.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     funds appropriated in this title are in addition to amounts 
     appropriated or otherwise made available in this Act for 
     fiscal year 2018.

                extension of authorities and conditions

       Sec. 8002.  Unless otherwise provided for in this Act, the 
     additional amounts appropriated by this title to 
     appropriations accounts in this Act shall be available under 
     the authorities and conditions applicable to such 
     appropriations accounts.

                   counterterrorism partnerships fund

       Sec. 8003.  Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
     heading ``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and 
     Related Programs'' shall be made available for the 
     Counterterrorism Partnerships Fund for security programs in 
     areas liberated from, under the influence of, or adversely 
     affected by, the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria or other 
     terrorist organizations: Provided, That such areas shall 
     include the Kurdistan Region of Iraq: Provided further, That 
     prior to the obligation of funds made available pursuant to 
     this subsection, the Secretary of State shall take all 
     practicable steps to ensure that mechanisms are in place for 
     monitoring, oversight, and control of such funds: Provided 
     further, That the Secretary shall promptly inform the 
     appropriate congressional committees of each instance in 
     which assistance provided pursuant to this section has been 
     diverted or destroyed, to include the type and amount of 
     assistance, a description of the incident and parties 
     involved, and an explanation of the response of the 
     Department of State: Provided further, That funds made 
     available pursuant to this section shall be subject to prior 
     consultation with the appropriate congressional committees 
     and the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
     Appropriations.

                               rescission

                    (including rescission of funds)

       Sec. 8004.  Of the unobligated balances available to the 
     President under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'', 
     $156,913,000, which shall be derived from amounts under such 
     heading previously designated by Congress for Overseas 
     Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
     section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985, are hereby rescinded: Provided, 
     That such amounts are designated by Congress for Overseas 
     Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
     section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                              designation

       Sec. 8005.  Each amount designated in this Act by the 
     Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
     Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 
     shall be available (or rescinded, if applicable) only if the 
     President subsequently so designates all such amounts and 
     transmits such designations to the Congress.

                 TITLE IX--ADDITIONAL GENERAL PROVISION

                           references to act

       Sec. 9001.  Except as expressly provided otherwise, any 
     reference to ``this Act'' contained in this division shall be 
     treated as referring only to the provisions of this division.

                          reference to report

       Sec. 9002.  Any reference to a ``report accompanying this 
     Act'' contained in this division shall be treated as a 
     reference to House Report 115-253. The effect of such Report 
     shall be limited to this division and shall apply for 
     purposes of determining the allocation of funds provided by, 
     and the implementation of, this division.

                       spending reduction account

       Sec. 9003.  $0
       This division may be cited as the ``Department of State, 
     Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
     2018''.

DIVISION H--TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED 
                   AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2018

        The following sums are appropriated, out of any money in 
     the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the Departments 
     of Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development, and 
     related agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
     2018, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                        Office of the Secretary

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Office of the Secretary, 
     $108,899,000, of which not to exceed $2,758,000 shall be 
     available for the immediate Office of the Secretary; not to 
     exceed $1,040,000 shall be available for the immediate Office 
     of the Deputy Secretary; not to exceed $20,772,000 shall be 
     available for the Office of the General Counsel; not to 
     exceed $10,033,000 shall be available for the Office of the 
     Under Secretary of Transportation for Policy; not to exceed 
     $14,019,000 shall be available for the Office of the 
     Assistant Secretary for Budget and Programs; not to exceed 
     $2,546,000 shall be available for the Office of the Assistant 
     Secretary for Governmental Affairs; not to exceed $24,255,000 
     shall be available for the Office of the Assistant Secretary 
     for Administration; not to exceed $2,142,000 shall be 
     available for the Office of Public Affairs; not to exceed 
     $1,760,000 shall be available for the Office of the Executive 
     Secretariat; not to exceed $11,089,000 shall be available for 
     the Office of Intelligence, Security, and Emergency Response; 
     and not to exceed $18,485,000 shall be available for the 
     Office of the Chief Information Officer:  Provided, That the 
     Secretary of Transportation is authorized to transfer funds 
     appropriated for any office of the Office of the Secretary to 
     any other office of the Office of the Secretary:  Provided 
     further, That no appropriation for any office shall be 
     increased or decreased by more than 10 percent by all such 
     transfers:  Provided further, That notice of any change in 
     funding greater than 10 percent shall be submitted for 
     approval to the House and Senate Committees on 
     Appropriations:  Provided further, That not to exceed $60,000 
     shall be for allocation within the Department for official 
     reception and representation expenses as the Secretary may 
     determine:  Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
     provision of law, excluding fees authorized in Public Law 
     107-71, there may be credited to this appropriation up to 
     $2,500,000 in funds received in user fees.

                        research and technology

       For necessary expenses related to the Office of the 
     Assistant Secretary for Research and Technology, $8,465,109, 
     of which $2,618,000 shall remain available until September 
     30, 2020:  Provided, That there may be credited to this 
     appropriation, to be available until expended, funds received 
     from States, counties, municipalities, other public 
     authorities, and private sources for expenses incurred for 
     training:  Provided further, That any reference in law, 
     regulation, judicial proceedings, or elsewhere to the 
     Research and Innovative Technology Administration shall 
     continue to be deemed to be a reference to the Office of the 
     Assistant Secretary for Research and Technology of the 
     Department of Transportation.
       

     national surface transportation and innovative finance bureau

       For necessary expenses of the National Surface 
     Transportation and Innovative Finance Bureau authorized by 49 
     U.S.C. 116, $1,000,000  Provided, That the Secretary is 
     required to notify the House and Senate Committees on 
     Appropriations prior to exercising the authorities of 49 
     U.S.C. 116(h).
       

                       cyber security initiatives

       For necessary expenses for cyber security initiatives, 
     including necessary upgrades to wide area network and 
     information technology infrastructure, improvement of network 
     perimeter controls and identity management, testing and 
     assessment of information technology against business, 
     security, and other requirements, implementation of Federal 
     cyber security initiatives and information infrastructure 
     enhancements, and implementation of enhanced security 
     controls on network devices, $15,000,000, to remain available 
     through September 30, 2019.

                         office of civil rights

       For necessary expenses of the Office of Civil Rights, 
     $9,500,000.

           transportation planning, research, and development

       For necessary expenses for conducting transportation 
     planning, research, systems development, development 
     activities, and making grants, to remain available until 
     expended, $8,500,001:  Provided, That of such amount, 
     $3,000,000 shall be for necessary expenses of the Interagency 
     Infrastructure Permitting Improvement Center (IIPIC):  
     Provided further, That there may be transferred to this 
     appropriation, to remain available until expended, amounts 
     transferred from other Federal agencies for expenses incurred 
     under this heading for IIPIC activities not related to 
     transportation infrastructure:  Provided further, That the 
     tools and analysis developed by the IIPIC shall be available 
     to other Federal agencies for the permitting and review of 
     major infrastructure projects not related to transportation 
     only to the extent that other Federal agencies provide 
     funding to the Department as provided for under the previous 
     proviso.

                          working capital fund

       For necessary expenses for operating costs and capital 
     outlays of the Working Capital Fund, not to exceed 
     $202,245,000 shall be paid from appropriations made available 
     to the Department of Transportation:  Provided, That such 
     services shall be provided on a competitive basis to entities 
     within the Department of Transportation:  Provided further, 
     That the above limitation on operating expenses shall not 
     apply to non-DOT entities:  Provided further, That no funds 
     appropriated in this Act to an agency of the Department

[[Page H6977]]

     shall be transferred to the Working Capital Fund without 
     majority approval of the Working Capital Fund Steering 
     Committee and approval of the Secretary:  Provided further, 
     That no assessments may be levied against any program, budget 
     activity, subactivity or project funded by this Act unless 
     notice of such assessments and the basis therefor are 
     presented to the House and Senate Committees on 
     Appropriations and are approved by such Committees.

               minority business resource center program

       For necessary expenses of the Minority Business Resource 
     Center, the provision of financial education outreach 
     activities to eligible transportation-related small 
     businesses, the monitoring of existing loans in the 
     guaranteed loan program, and the modification of such loans 
     of the Minority Business Resource Center, $500,301, as 
     authorized by 49 U.S.C. 332;  Provided, That notwithstanding 
     that section, these funds may be for business opportunities 
     related to any mode of transportation.

       small and disadvantaged business utilization and outreach

       For necessary expenses for small and disadvantaged business 
     utilization and outreach activities, $3,999,093, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2019:  Provided, That 
     notwithstanding 49 U.S.C. 332, these funds may be used for 
     business opportunities related to any mode of transportation.

                        payments to air carriers

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

       In addition to funds made available from any other source 
     to carry out the essential air service program under 49 
     U.S.C. 41731 through 41742, $150,000,000, to be derived from 
     the Airport and Airway Trust Fund, to remain available until 
     expended:  Provided, That in determining between or among 
     carriers competing to provide service to a community, the 
     Secretary may consider the relative subsidy requirements of 
     the carriers:  Provided further, That basic essential air 
     service minimum requirements shall not include the 15-
     passenger capacity requirement under subsection 41732(b)(3) 
     of title 49, United States Code:  Provided further, That none 
     of the funds in this Act or any other Act shall be used to 
     enter into a new contract with a community located less than 
     40 miles from the nearest small hub airport before the 
     Secretary has negotiated with the community over a local cost 
     share:  Provided further, That amounts authorized to be 
     distributed for the essential air service program under 
     subsection 41742(b) of title 49, United States Code, shall be 
     made available immediately from amounts otherwise provided to 
     the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration:  
     Provided further, That the Administrator may reimburse such 
     amounts from fees credited to the account established under 
     section 45303 of title 49, United States Code.

  administrative provisions--office of the secretary of transportation

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 101.  None of the funds made available in this Act to 
     the Department of Transportation may be obligated for the 
     Office of the Secretary of Transportation to approve 
     assessments or reimbursable agreements pertaining to funds 
     appropriated to the modal administrations in this Act, except 
     for activities underway on the date of enactment of this Act, 
     unless such assessments or agreements have completed the 
     normal reprogramming process for Congressional notification.
       Sec. 102.  The Secretary shall post on the Web site of the 
     Department of Transportation a schedule of all meetings of 
     the Council on Credit and Finance, including the agenda for 
     each meeting, and require the Council on Credit and Finance 
     to record the decisions and actions of each meeting.
       Sec. 103.  In addition to authority provided by section 327 
     of title 49, United States Code, the Department's Working 
     Capital Fund is hereby authorized to provide partial or full 
     payments in advance and accept subsequent reimbursements from 
     all Federal agencies from available funds for transit benefit 
     distribution services that are necessary to carry out the 
     Federal transit pass transportation fringe benefit program 
     under Executive Order 13150 and section 3049 of Public Law 
     109-59:  Provided, That the Department shall maintain a 
     reasonable operating reserve in the Working Capital Fund, to 
     be expended in advance to provide uninterrupted transit 
     benefits to Government employees;  Provided further, That 
     such reserve will not exceed one month of benefits payable 
     and may be used only for the purpose of providing for the 
     continuation of transit benefits;  Provided further, That the 
     Working Capital Fund will be fully reimbursed by each 
     customer agency for the actual cost of the transit benefit.
       Sec. 104.  Hereafter, the Secretary may transfer to the 
     National Surface Transportation and Innovative Finance 
     Bureau, for the purposes of the Bureau, funds allocated to 
     the administrative costs of processing applications for the 
     programs referred to in 49 U.S.C. 116(d)(1) and funds 
     allocated to any office or office function that the Secretary 
     determines has duties, responsibilities, resources, or 
     expertise that support the purposes of the Bureau:  Provided, 
     That any such funds, or portions thereof, transferred to the 
     Bureau may be transferred back to and merged with the 
     original account.
       Sec. 105.  Section 503(l)(4) of the Railroad Revitalization 
     and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 (45 U.S.C. 823(l)(4)) is 
     amended--
       (1) by striking the heading ``Safety and Operations 
     Account'' and inserting the heading ``National Surface 
     Transportation and Innovative Finance Bureau Account, Office 
     of the Secretary''; and
       (2) in subparagraph (A) by striking ``the Safety and 
     Operations account of the Federal Railroad Administration'' 
     and inserting ``the National Surface Transportation and 
     Innovative Finance Bureau account.''

                    Federal Aviation Administration

                               operations

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

       For necessary expenses of the Federal Aviation 
     Administration, not otherwise provided for, including 
     operations and research activities related to commercial 
     space transportation, administrative expenses for research 
     and development, establishment of air navigation facilities, 
     the operation (including leasing) and maintenance of 
     aircraft, subsidizing the cost of aeronautical charts and 
     maps sold to the public, lease or purchase of passenger motor 
     vehicles for replacement only, in addition to amounts made 
     available by Public Law 112-95, $10,185,482,000, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2019, of which $8,859,900,000 
     shall be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund, of 
     which not to exceed $7,691,814,000 shall be available for air 
     traffic organization activities; not to exceed $1,309,749,000 
     shall be available for aviation safety activities; not to 
     exceed $21,587,000 shall be available for commercial space 
     transportation activities; not to exceed $777,506,000 shall 
     be available for finance and management activities; not to 
     exceed $59,951,000 shall be available for NextGen and 
     operations planning activities; not to exceed $112,622,000 
     shall be available for security and hazardous materials 
     safety; and not to exceed $212,253,000 shall be available for 
     staff offices:  Provided, That not to exceed 5 percent of any 
     budget activity, except for aviation safety budget activity, 
     may be transferred to any budget activity under this heading: 
      Provided further, That no transfer may increase or decrease 
     any appropriation by more than 5 percent:  Provided further, 
     That any transfer in excess of 5 percent shall be treated as 
     a reprogramming of funds under section 405 of this Act and 
     shall not be available for obligation or expenditure except 
     in compliance with the procedures set forth in that section:  
     Provided further, That not later than March 31 of each fiscal 
     year hereafter, the Administrator of the Federal Aviation 
     Administration shall transmit to Congress an annual update to 
     the report submitted to Congress in December 2004 pursuant to 
     section 221 of Public Law 108-176:  Provided further, That 
     the amount herein appropriated shall be reduced by $100,000 
     for each day after March 31 that such report has not been 
     submitted to the Congress:  Provided further, That not later 
     than March 31 of each fiscal year hereafter, the 
     Administrator shall transmit to Congress a companion report 
     that describes a comprehensive strategy for staffing, hiring, 
     and training flight standards and aircraft certification 
     staff in a format similar to the one utilized for the 
     controller staffing plan, including stated attrition 
     estimates and numerical hiring goals by fiscal year:  
     Provided further, That the amount herein appropriated shall 
     be reduced by $100,000 per day for each day after March 31 
     that such report has not been submitted to Congress:  
     Provided further, That funds may be used to enter into a 
     grant agreement with a nonprofit standard-setting 
     organization to assist in the development of aviation safety 
     standards:  Provided further, That none of the funds in this 
     Act shall be available for new applicants for the second 
     career training program:  Provided further, That none of the 
     funds in this Act shall be available for the Federal Aviation 
     Administration to finalize or implement any regulation that 
     would promulgate new aviation user fees not specifically 
     authorized by law after the date of the enactment of this 
     Act:  Provided further, That there may be credited to this 
     appropriation, as offsetting collections, funds received from 
     States, counties, municipalities, foreign authorities, other 
     public authorities, and private sources for expenses incurred 
     in the provision of agency services, including receipts for 
     the maintenance and operation of air navigation facilities, 
     and for issuance, renewal or modification of certificates, 
     including airman, aircraft, and repair station certificates, 
     or for tests related thereto, or for processing major repair 
     or alteration forms:  Provided further, That of the funds 
     appropriated under this heading, not less than $162,000,000 
     shall be for the contract tower program, including the 
     contract tower cost share program:  Provided further, That 
     none of the funds in this Act for aeronautical charting and 
     cartography are available for activities conducted by, or 
     coordinated through, the Working Capital Fund:  Provided 
     further, That none of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available by this Act or any other Act may be used to 
     eliminate the Contract Weather Observers program at any 
     airport.

                        facilities and equipment

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

       For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for 
     acquisition, establishment, technical support services, 
     improvement by contract or purchase, and hire of national 
     airspace systems and experimental facilities and equipment, 
     as authorized under part A of subtitle VII of title 49, 
     United States Code,

[[Page H6978]]

     including initial acquisition of necessary sites by lease or 
     grant; engineering and service testing, including 
     construction of test facilities and acquisition of necessary 
     sites by lease or grant; construction and furnishing of 
     quarters and related accommodations for officers and 
     employees of the Federal Aviation Administration stationed at 
     remote localities where such accommodations are not 
     available; and the purchase, lease, or transfer of aircraft 
     from funds available under this heading, including aircraft 
     for aviation regulation and certification; to be derived from 
     the Airport and Airway Trust Fund, $2,855,000,000, of which 
     $493,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2019, 
     $2,247,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 
     2020, and $115,000,000 shall remain available until expended: 
      Provided, That there may be credited to this appropriation 
     funds received from States, counties, municipalities, other 
     public authorities, and private sources, for expenses 
     incurred in the establishment, improvement, and modernization 
     of national airspace systems:  Provided further, That no 
     later than March 31, the Secretary of Transportation shall 
     transmit to the Congress an investment plan for the Federal 
     Aviation Administration which includes funding for each 
     budget line item for fiscal years 2019 through 2023, with 
     total funding for each year of the plan constrained to the 
     funding targets for those years as estimated and approved by 
     the Office of Management and Budget.

                 research, engineering, and development

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

       For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for 
     research, engineering, and development, as authorized under 
     part A of subtitle VII of title 49, United States Code, 
     including construction of experimental facilities and 
     acquisition of necessary sites by lease or grant, 
     $170,000,000, to be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust 
     Fund and to remain available until September 30, 2020:  
     Provided, That there may be credited to this appropriation as 
     offsetting collections, funds received from States, counties, 
     municipalities, other public authorities, and private 
     sources, which shall be available for expenses incurred for 
     research, engineering, and development.

                       grants-in-aid for airports

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

       For liquidation of obligations incurred for grants-in-aid 
     for airport planning and development, and noise compatibility 
     planning and programs as authorized under subchapter I of 
     chapter 471 and subchapter I of chapter 475 of title 49, 
     United States Code, and under other law authorizing such 
     obligations; for procurement, installation, and commissioning 
     of runway incursion prevention devices and systems at 
     airports of such title; for grants authorized under section 
     41743 of title 49, United States Code; and for inspection 
     activities and administration of airport safety programs, 
     including those related to airport operating certificates 
     under section 44706 of title 49, United States Code, 
     $3,000,000,000, to be derived from the Airport and Airway 
     Trust Fund and to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
     That none of the funds under this heading shall be available 
     for the planning or execution of programs the obligations for 
     which are in excess of $3,350,000,000 in fiscal year 2018, 
     notwithstanding section 47117(g) of title 49, United States 
     Code:  Provided further, That none of the funds under this 
     heading shall be available for the replacement of baggage 
     conveyor systems, reconfiguration of terminal baggage areas, 
     or other airport improvements that are necessary to install 
     bulk explosive detection systems:  Provided further, That 
     notwithstanding section 47109(a) of title 49, United States 
     Code, the Government's share of allowable project costs under 
     paragraph (2) for subgrants or paragraph (3) of that section 
     shall be 95 percent for a project at other than a large or 
     medium hub airport that is a successive phase of a multi-
     phased construction project for which the project sponsor 
     received a grant in fiscal year 2011 for the construction 
     project:  Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
     provision of law, of funds limited under this heading, not 
     more than $111,863,000 shall be available for administration, 
     not less than $15,000,000 shall be available for the Airport 
     Cooperative Research Program, and not less than $33,210,000 
     shall be available for Airport Technology Research.

       administrative provisions--federal aviation administration

       Sec. 110.  None of the funds in this Act may be used to 
     compensate in excess of 600 technical staff-years under the 
     federally funded research and development center contract 
     between the Federal Aviation Administration and the Center 
     for Advanced Aviation Systems Development during fiscal year 
     2017.
       Sec. 111.  None of the funds in this Act shall be used to 
     pursue or adopt guidelines or regulations requiring airport 
     sponsors to provide to the Federal Aviation Administration 
     without cost building construction, maintenance, utilities 
     and expenses, or space in airport sponsor-owned buildings for 
     services relating to air traffic control, air navigation, or 
     weather reporting:  Provided, That the prohibition of funds 
     in this section does not apply to negotiations between the 
     agency and airport sponsors to achieve agreement on ``below-
     market'' rates for these items or to grant assurances that 
     require airport sponsors to provide land without cost to the 
     FAA for air traffic control facilities.
       Sec. 112.  The Administrator of the Federal Aviation 
     Administration may reimburse amounts made available to 
     satisfy 49 U.S.C. 41742(a)(1) from fees credited under 49 
     U.S.C. 45303 and any amount remaining in such account at the 
     close of that fiscal year may be made available to satisfy 
     section 41742(a)(1) for the subsequent fiscal year.
       Sec. 113.  Amounts collected under section 40113(e) of 
     title 49, United States Code, shall be credited to the 
     appropriation current at the time of collection, to be merged 
     with and available for the same purposes of such 
     appropriation.
       Sec. 114.  None of the funds in this Act shall be available 
     for paying premium pay under subsection 5546(a) of title 5, 
     United States Code, to any Federal Aviation Administration 
     employee unless such employee actually performed work during 
     the time corresponding to such premium pay.
       Sec. 115.  None of the funds in this Act may be obligated 
     or expended for an employee of the Federal Aviation 
     Administration to purchase a store gift card or gift 
     certificate through use of a Government-issued credit card.
       Sec. 116.  None of the funds in this Act may be obligated 
     or expended for retention bonuses for an employee of the 
     Federal Aviation Administration without the prior written 
     approval of the Assistant Secretary for Administration of the 
     Department of Transportation.
       Sec. 117.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none 
     of the funds made available under this Act or any prior Act 
     may be used to implement or to continue to implement any 
     limitation on the ability of any owner or operator of a 
     private aircraft to obtain, upon a request to the 
     Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, a 
     blocking of that owner's or operator's aircraft registration 
     number from any display of the Federal Aviation 
     Administration's Aircraft Situational Display to Industry 
     data that is made available to the public, except data made 
     available to a Government agency, for the noncommercial 
     flights of that owner or operator.
       Sec. 118.  None of the funds in this Act shall be available 
     for salaries and expenses of more than nine political and 
     Presidential appointees in the Federal Aviation 
     Administration.
       Sec. 119.  None of the funds made available under this Act 
     may be used to increase fees pursuant to section 44721 of 
     title 49, United States Code, until the Federal Aviation 
     Administration provides to the House and Senate Committees on 
     Appropriations a report that justifies all fees related to 
     aeronautical navigation products and explains how such fees 
     are consistent with Executive Order 13642.
       Sec. 119A.  None of the funds in this Act may be used to 
     close a regional operations center of the Federal Aviation 
     Administration or reduce its services unless the 
     Administrator notifies the House and Senate Committees on 
     Appropriations not less than 90 full business days in 
     advance.
       Sec. 119B.  None of the funds appropriated or limited by 
     this Act may be used to change weight restrictions or prior 
     permission rules at Teterboro airport in Teterboro, New 
     Jersey.
       Sec. 119C.  None of the funds provided under this Act may 
     be used by the Administrator of the Federal Aviation 
     Administration to withhold from consideration and approval 
     any application for participation in the Contract Tower 
     Program, or for reevaluation of Cost-share Program 
     participants, pending as of January 1, 2016, as long as the 
     Federal Aviation Administration has received an application 
     from the airport, and as long as the Administrator determines 
     such tower is eligible using the factors set forth in the 
     Federal Aviation Administration report, Establishment and 
     Discontinuance Criteria for Airport Traffic Control Towers 
     (FAA-APO-90-7 as of August, 1990).
       Sec. 119D.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     none of the funds made available in this Act may be obligated 
     or expended to limit an Organization Designation 
     Authorization holder from utilizing authorized delegated 
     functions, unless the FAA documents, through surveillance, 
     oversight or accident/incident finding, a systemic 
     airworthiness noncompliance performance issue on the part of 
     the ODA holder with regard to a specific function or where an 
     ODA's capability has not been previously established in terms 
     of a new compliance method or design feature: Provided, that 
     where the FAA has limited the authority of the ODA the FAA 
     shall work with the ODA holder to develop the capability to 
     execute that function safely and effectively.

                     Federal Highway Administration

                 limitation on administrative expenses

                          (highway trust fund)

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Not to exceed $439,443,925, together with advances and 
     reimbursements received by the Federal Highway 
     Administration, shall be obligated for necessary expenses for 
     administration and operation of the Federal Highway 
     Administration. In addition, $3,248,000 shall be transferred 
     to the Appalachian Regional Commission in accordance with 
     section 104(a) of title 23, United States Code.

[[Page H6979]]

  


                          federal-aid highways

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

       Funds available for the implementation or execution of 
     Federal-aid highway and highway safety construction programs 
     authorized under titles 23 and 49, United States Code, and 
     the provisions of the Fixing America's Surface Transportation 
     Act shall not exceed total obligations of $44,234,212,000 for 
     fiscal year 2018:  Provided, That the Secretary may collect 
     and spend fees, as authorized by title 23, United States 
     Code, to cover the costs of services of expert firms, 
     including counsel, in the field of municipal and project 
     finance to assist in the underwriting and servicing of 
     Federal credit instruments and all or a portion of the costs 
     to the Federal Government of servicing such credit 
     instruments:  Provided further, That such fees are available 
     until expended to pay for such costs:  Provided further, That 
     such amounts are in addition to administrative expenses that 
     are also available for such purpose, and are not subject to 
     any obligation limitation or the limitation on administrative 
     expenses under section 608 of title 23, United States Code.

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                          (highway trust fund)

       For the payment of obligations incurred in carrying out 
     Federal-aid highway and highway safety construction programs 
     authorized under title 23, United States Code, 
     $44,973,212,000 derived from the Highway Trust Fund (other 
     than the Mass Transit Account), to remain available until 
     expended.

                              (rescission)

                          (highway trust fund)

       Of the unobligated balances of funds apportioned among the 
     States under chapter 1 of title 23, United States Code, a 
     total of $800,000,000 is hereby permanently rescinded on 
     November 30, 2017: Provided, That such rescission shall not 
     apply to funds distributed in accordance with sections 
     104(b)(3) and 130(f) of title 23, United States Code; section 
     133(d)(1)(A) of such title; the first sentence of section 
     133(d)(3)(A) of such title, as in effect on the day before 
     the date of enactment of MAP-21 (Public Law 112-141); 
     sections 133(d)(1) and 163 of such title, as in effect on the 
     day before the date of enactment of SAFETEA-LU (Public Law 
     109-59); and section 104(b)(5) of such title, as in effect on 
     the day before the date of enactment of MAP-21 (Public Law 
     112-141): Provided further, That such rescission shall not 
     apply to funds that are exempt from the obligation limitation 
     or subject to special no-year obligation limitation: Provided 
     further, That the amount to be rescinded from a State shall 
     be determined by multiplying the total amount of the 
     rescission by the ratio that the unobligated balances subject 
     to the rescission as of September 30, 2017, for the State; 
     bears to the unobligated balances subject to the rescission 
     as of September 30, 2017, for all States: Provided further, 
     That the amount to be rescinded under this section from each 
     program to which the rescission applies within a State shall 
     be determined by multiplying the rescission amount calculated 
     for such State by the ratio that the unobligated balance as 
     of September 30, 2017, for such program in such State; bears 
     to the unobligated balances as of September 30, 2017, for all 
     programs to which the rescission applies in such State.

       administrative provisions--federal highway administration

       Sec. 120. (a) For fiscal year 2018, the Secretary of 
     Transportation shall--
       (1) not distribute from the obligation limitation for 
     Federal-aid highways--
       (A) amounts authorized for administrative expenses and 
     programs by section 104(a) of title 23, United States Code; 
     and
       (B) amounts authorized for the Bureau of Transportation 
     Statistics;
       (2) not distribute an amount from the obligation limitation 
     for Federal-aid highways that is equal to the unobligated 
     balance of amounts--
       (A) made available from the Highway Trust Fund (other than 
     the Mass Transit Account) for Federal-aid highway and highway 
     safety construction programs for previous fiscal years the 
     funds for which are allocated by the Secretary (or 
     apportioned by the Secretary under sections 202 or 204 of 
     title 23, United States Code); and
       (B) for which obligation limitation was provided in a 
     previous fiscal year;
       (3) determine the proportion that--
       (A) the obligation limitation for Federal-aid highways, 
     less the aggregate of amounts not distributed under 
     paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection; bears to
       (B) the total of the sums authorized to be appropriated for 
     the Federal-aid highway and highway safety construction 
     programs (other than sums authorized to be appropriated for 
     provisions of law described in paragraphs (1) through (11) of 
     subsection (b) and sums authorized to be appropriated for 
     section 119 of title 23, United States Code, equal to the 
     amount referred to in subsection (b)(12) for such fiscal 
     year), less the aggregate of the amounts not distributed 
     under paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection;
       (4) distribute the obligation limitation for Federal-aid 
     highways, less the aggregate amounts not distributed under 
     paragraphs (1) and (2), for each of the programs (other than 
     programs to which paragraph (1) applies) that are allocated 
     by the Secretary under the Fixing America's Surface 
     Transportation Act and title 23, United States Code, or 
     apportioned by the Secretary under sections 202 or 204 of 
     that title, by multiplying--
       (A) the proportion determined under paragraph (3); by
       (B) the amounts authorized to be appropriated for each such 
     program for such fiscal year; and
       (5) distribute the obligation limitation for Federal-aid 
     highways, less the aggregate amounts not distributed under 
     paragraphs (1) and (2) and the amounts distributed under 
     paragraph (4), for Federal-aid highway and highway safety 
     construction programs that are apportioned by the Secretary 
     under title 23, United States Code (other than the amounts 
     apportioned for the National Highway Performance Program in 
     section 119 of title 23, United States Code, that are exempt 
     from the limitation under subsection (b)(12) and the amounts 
     apportioned under sections 202 and 204 of that title) in the 
     proportion that--
       (A) amounts authorized to be appropriated for the programs 
     that are apportioned under title 23, United States Code, to 
     each State for such fiscal year; bears to
       (B) the total of the amounts authorized to be appropriated 
     for the programs that are apportioned under title 23, United 
     States Code, to all States for such fiscal year.
       (b) Exceptions From Obligation Limitation.--The obligation 
     limitation for Federal-aid highways shall not apply to 
     obligations under or for--
       (1) section 125 of title 23, United States Code;
       (2) section 147 of the Surface Transportation Assistance 
     Act of 1978 (23 U.S.C. 144 note; 92 Stat. 2714);
       (3) section 9 of the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1981 (95 
     Stat. 1701);
       (4) subsections (b) and (j) of section 131 of the Surface 
     Transportation Assistance Act of 1982 (96 Stat. 2119);
       (5) subsections (b) and (c) of section 149 of the Surface 
     Transportation and Uniform Relocation Assistance Act of 1987 
     (101 Stat. 198);
       (6) sections 1103 through 1108 of the Intermodal Surface 
     Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (105 Stat. 2027);
       (7) section 157 of title 23, United States Code (as in 
     effect on June 8, 1998);
       (8) section 105 of title 23, United States Code (as in 
     effect for fiscal years 1998 through 2004, but only in an 
     amount equal to $639,000,000 for each of those fiscal years);
       (9) Federal-aid highway programs for which obligation 
     authority was made available under the Transportation Equity 
     Act for the 21st Century (112 Stat. 107) or subsequent Acts 
     for multiple years or to remain available until expended, but 
     only to the extent that the obligation authority has not 
     lapsed or been used;
       (10) section 105 of title 23, United States Code (as in 
     effect for fiscal years 2005 through 2012, but only in an 
     amount equal to $639,000,000 for each of those fiscal years);
       (11) section 1603 of SAFETEA-LU (23 U.S.C. 118 note; 119 
     Stat. 1248), to the extent that funds obligated in accordance 
     with that section were not subject to a limitation on 
     obligations at the time at which the funds were initially 
     made available for obligation; and
       (12) section 119 of title 23, United States Code (but, for 
     each of fiscal years 2013 through 2018, only in an amount 
     equal to $639,000,000).
       (c) Redistribution of Unused Obligation Authority.--
     Notwithstanding subsection (a), the Secretary shall, after 
     August 1 of such fiscal year--
       (1) revise a distribution of the obligation limitation made 
     available under subsection (a) if an amount distributed 
     cannot be obligated during that fiscal year; and
       (2) redistribute sufficient amounts to those States able to 
     obligate amounts in addition to those previously distributed 
     during that fiscal year, giving priority to those States 
     having large unobligated balances of funds apportioned under 
     sections 144 (as in effect on the day before the date of 
     enactment of Public Law 112-141) and 104 of title 23, United 
     States Code.
       (d) Applicability of Obligation Limitations to 
     Transportation Research Programs.--
       (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
     obligation limitation for Federal-aid highways shall apply to 
     contract authority for transportation research programs 
     carried out under--
       (A) chapter 5 of title 23, United States Code; and
       (B) title VI of the Fixing America's Surface Transportation 
     Act.
       (2) Exception.--Obligation authority made available under 
     paragraph (1) shall--
       (A) remain available for a period of 4 fiscal years; and
       (B) be in addition to the amount of any limitation imposed 
     on obligations for Federal-aid highway and highway safety 
     construction programs for future fiscal years.
       (e) Redistribution of Certain Authorized Funds.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
     distribution of obligation limitation under subsection (a), 
     the Secretary shall distribute to the States any funds 
     (excluding funds authorized for the program under section 202 
     of title 23, United States Code) that--
       (A) are authorized to be appropriated for such fiscal year 
     for Federal-aid highway programs; and

[[Page H6980]]

       (B) the Secretary determines will not be allocated to the 
     States (or will not be apportioned to the States under 
     section 204 of title 23, United States Code), and will not be 
     available for obligation, for such fiscal year because of the 
     imposition of any obligation limitation for such fiscal year.
       (2) Ratio.--Funds shall be distributed under paragraph (1) 
     in the same proportion as the distribution of obligation 
     authority under subsection (a)(5).
       (3) Availability.--Funds distributed to each State under 
     paragraph (1) shall be available for any purpose described in 
     section 133(b) of title 23, United States Code.
       Sec. 121.  Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, funds received 
     by the Bureau of Transportation Statistics from the sale of 
     data products, for necessary expenses incurred pursuant to 
     chapter 63 of title 49, United States Code, may be credited 
     to the Federal-aid highways account for the purpose of 
     reimbursing the Bureau for such expenses:  Provided, That 
     such funds shall be subject to the obligation limitation for 
     Federal-aid highway and highway safety construction programs.
       Sec. 122.  Not less than 15 days prior to waiving, under 
     his or her statutory authority, any Buy America requirement 
     for Federal-aid highways projects, the Secretary of 
     Transportation shall make an informal public notice and 
     comment opportunity on the intent to issue such waiver and 
     the reasons therefor:  Provided, That the Secretary shall 
     provide an annual report to the House and Senate Committees 
     on Appropriations on any waivers granted under the Buy 
     America requirements.
       Sec. 123.  None of the funds in this Act to the Department 
     of Transportation may be used to provide credit assistance 
     unless not less than 3 days before any application approval 
     to provide credit assistance under sections 603 and 604 of 
     title 23, United States Code, the Secretary of Transportation 
     provides notification in writing to the following committees: 
     the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations; the 
     Committee on Environment and Public Works and the Committee 
     on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs of the Senate; and the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House 
     of Representatives:  Provided, That such notification shall 
     include, but not be limited to, the name of the project 
     sponsor; a description of the project; whether credit 
     assistance will be provided as a direct loan, loan guarantee, 
     or line of credit; and the amount of credit assistance.
       Sec. 124.  None of the funds in this Act may be used to 
     make a grant for a project under section 117 of title 23, 
     United States Code, unless the Secretary, at least 60 days 
     before making a grant under that section, provides written 
     notification to the House and Senate Committees on 
     Appropriations of the proposed grant, including an evaluation 
     and justification for the project and the amount of the 
     proposed grant award.
       Sec. 125.  For this fiscal year, the Federal Highway 
     Administration shall reinstate Interim Approval IA-5, 
     relating to the provisional use of an alternative lettering 
     style on certain highway guide signs, as it existed before 
     its termination, as announced in the Federal Register on 
     January 25, 2016 [(81 Fed. Reg. 4083)].
       Sec. 126.  Section 127(t) of title 23, United States Code, 
     is amended--
       (1) in the subsection heading by inserting ``North Dakota 
     and'' before ``Idaho'';
       (2) in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by inserting 
     ``North Dakota or'' before ``Idaho''; and
       (3) in paragraph (3) by striking ``Idaho State law'' and 
     inserting ``the law of the relevant State''.

              Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration

              motor carrier safety operations and programs

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

       For payment of obligations incurred in the implementation, 
     execution and administration of motor carrier safety 
     operations and programs pursuant to section 31110 of title 
     49, United States Code, as amended by the Fixing America's 
     Surface Transportation Act, $283,000,000, to be derived from 
     the Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account), 
     together with advances and reimbursements received by the 
     Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, the sum of which 
     shall remain available until expended:  Provided, That funds 
     available for implementation, execution or administration of 
     motor carrier safety operations and programs authorized under 
     title 49, United States Code, shall not exceed total 
     obligations of $283,000,000 for ``Motor Carrier Safety 
     Operations and Programs'' for fiscal year 2018, of which 
     $9,073,000, to remain available for obligation until 
     September 30, 2020, is for the research and technology 
     program, and of which $34,824,000, to remain available for 
     obligation until September 30, 2020, is for information 
     management.

                      motor carrier safety grants

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

       For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out 
     sections 31102, 31103, 31104, and 31313 of title 49, United 
     States Code, as amended by the Fixing America's Surface 
     Transportation Act, $374,800,000, to be derived from the 
     Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account) and 
     to remain available until expended:  Provided, That funds 
     available for the implementation or execution of motor 
     carrier safety programs shall not exceed total obligations of 
     $374,800,000 in fiscal year 2018 for ``Motor Carrier Safety 
     Grants''; of which $298,900,000 shall be available for the 
     motor carrier safety assistance program, $31,800,000 shall be 
     available for the commercial driver's license program 
     implementation program, $43,100,000 shall be available for 
     the high priority activities program, and $1,000,000 shall be 
     available for the commercial motor vehicle operators grant 
     program: Provided further, That of the amounts provided for 
     Commercial Vehicle Information Systems Network Development or 
     other Motor Carrier Safety grants in the Transportation 
     Equity Act for the 21st Century (Public Law 105-178), 
     SAFETEA-LU (Public Law 109-59), or other appropriation or 
     authorization acts prior to Fiscal Year 2017, $100,000,000 in 
     additional obligation limitation is provided for a highly 
     automated commercial vehicle research and development 
     program, in accordance with 49 U.S.C. 31108, and shall remain 
     available until September 30, 2022: Provided further, That 
     the activities funded by the previous proviso may be 
     accomplished through direct expenditure, direct research 
     activities, grants, cooperative agreements, contracts, intra 
     or interagency agreements, other agreements with private and 
     public organizations, and transfers to other Federal agencies 
     for activities under this heading: Provided further, That 
     such funds as necessary for payment of obligations incurred 
     in carrying out this section shall be derived from the 
     Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account), to 
     be available until expended.

 administrative provisions--federal motor carrier safety administration

       Sec. 130.  Funds appropriated or limited in this Act shall 
     be subject to the terms and conditions stipulated in section 
     350 of Public Law 107-87 and section 6901 of Public Law 110-
     28.
       Sec. 131.  The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration 
     shall send notice of 49 CFR section 385.308 violations by 
     certified mail, registered mail, or another manner of 
     delivery, which records the receipt of the notice by the 
     persons responsible for the violations.
       Sec. 132.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available to the Department of Transportation by this Act or 
     any other Act may be obligated or expended to implement, 
     administer, or enforce the requirements of section 31137 of 
     title 49, United States Code, or any regulation issued by the 
     Secretary pursuant to such section, with respect to the use 
     of electronic logging devices by operators of commercial 
     motor vehicles, as defined in section 31132(1) of such title, 
     transporting livestock as defined in section 602 of the 
     Emergency Livestock Feed Assistance Act of 1988 (7 U.S.C. 
     1471) or insects.
       Sec. 133.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available by this Act or any other Act may be used to amend, 
     revise or otherwise modify by rulemaking, guidance, or 
     interpretation the regulations in effect on December 4, 2015 
     relating to safety fitness determinations for motor carriers 
     until the Inspector General of the Department of 
     Transportation makes the certifications set out in section 
     5223(a) of Public Law 114-94.
       Sec. 134.  FEDERAL AUTHORITY.
        (a) In General.--Section 14501(c) of title 49, United 
     States Code, is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1) by striking ``paragraphs (2) and (3)'' 
     and inserting ``paragraphs (3) and (4)'';
       (2) by redesignating paragraphs (2) through (5) as 
     paragraphs (3) through (6) respectively;
       (3) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following:
       ``(2) Additional limitation.--
       ``(A) In general.--A State, political subdivision of a 
     State, or political authority of 2 or more States may not 
     enact or enforce a law, regulation, or other provision having 
     the force and effect of law prohibiting employees whose hours 
     of service are subject to regulation by the Secretary under 
     section 31502 from working to the full extent permitted or at 
     such times as permitted under such section, or imposing any 
     additional obligations on motor carriers if such employees 
     work to the full extent or at such times as permitted under 
     such section, including any related activities regulated 
     under part 395 of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations.
       ``(B) Statutory construction.--Nothing in this paragraph 
     may be construed to limit the provisions of paragraph (1).'';
       (4) in paragraph (3) (as redesignated) by striking 
     ``Paragraph (1)--'' and inserting ``Paragraphs (1) and (2)--
     ''; and
       (5) in paragraph (4)(A) (as redesignated) by striking 
     ``Paragraph (1)'' and inserting ``Paragraphs (1) and (2)''.
       (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section 
     shall have the force and effect as if enacted on the date of 
     enactment of the Federal Aviation Administration 
     Authorization Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-305).

             National Highway Traffic Safety Administration

                        operations and research

       For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of the 
     Secretary, with respect to traffic and highway safety 
     authorized under chapter 301 and part C of subtitle VI of 
     title 49, United States Code, $180,075,000, of which 
     $20,000,000 shall remain available through September 30, 
     2019.

[[Page H6981]]

  


                        operations and research

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

       For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out the 
     provisions of 23 U.S.C. 403, section 4011 of the Fixing 
     America's Surface Transportation (FAST) Act, and chapter 303 
     of title 49, United States Code, $149,000,000, to be derived 
     from the Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit 
     Account) and to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
     That none of the funds in this Act shall be available for the 
     planning or execution of programs the total obligations for 
     which, in fiscal year 2018, are in excess of $149,000,000, of 
     which $143,700,000 shall be for programs authorized under 23 
     U.S.C. 403 and $5,300,000 shall be for the National Driver 
     Register authorized under chapter 303 of title 49, United 
     States Code:  Provided further, That within the $149,000,000 
     obligation limitation for operations and research, 
     $20,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2019, 
     and shall be in addition to the amount of any limitation 
     imposed on obligations for future years.

                     highway traffic safety grants

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

       For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out 
     provisions of 23 U.S.C. 402, 404 and 405, and section 
     4001(a)(6) of the Fixing America's Surface Transportation 
     Act, to remain available until expended, $597,629,000, to be 
     derived from the Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass 
     Transit Account):  Provided, That none of the funds in this 
     Act shall be available for the planning or execution of 
     programs the total obligations for which, in fiscal year 
     2018, are in excess of $597,629,000 for programs authorized 
     under 23 U.S.C. 402, 404 and 405, and section 4001(a)(6) of 
     the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act, of which 
     $261,200,000 shall be for ``Highway Safety Programs'' under 
     23 U.S.C. 402; $280,200,000 shall be for ``National Priority 
     Safety Programs'' under 23 U.S.C. 405; $29,900,000 shall be 
     for ``High Visibility Enforcement Program'' under 23 U.S.C. 
     404; $26,329,000 shall be for ``Administrative Expenses'' 
     under section 4001(a)(6) of the Fixing America's Surface 
     Transportation Act:  Provided further, That none of these 
     funds shall be used for construction, rehabilitation, or 
     remodeling costs, or for office furnishings and fixtures for 
     State, local or private buildings or structures:  Provided 
     further, That not to exceed $500,000 of the funds made 
     available for ``National Priority Safety Programs'' under 23 
     U.S.C. 405 for ``Impaired Driving Countermeasures'' (as 
     described in subsection (d) of that section) shall be 
     available for technical assistance to the States:  Provided 
     further, That with respect to the ``Transfers'' provision 
     under 23 U.S.C. 405(a)(8), any amounts transferred to 
     increase the amounts made available under section 402 shall 
     include the obligation authority for such amounts:  Provided 
     further, That the Administrator shall notify the House and 
     Senate Committees on Appropriations of any exercise of the 
     authority granted under the previous proviso or under 23 
     U.S.C. 405(a)(8) within 5 days.

      administrative provisions--national highway traffic safety 
                             administration

       Sec. 140.  An additional $130,000 shall be made available 
     to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, out of 
     the amount limited for section 402 of title 23, United States 
     Code, to pay for travel and related expenses for State 
     management reviews and to pay for core competency development 
     training and related expenses for highway safety staff.
       Sec. 141.  The limitations on obligations for the programs 
     of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration set in 
     this Act shall not apply to obligations for which obligation 
     authority was made available in previous public laws but only 
     to the extent that the obligation authority has not lapsed or 
     been used.
       Sec. 142.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to obligate or award funds for the National Highway 
     Traffic Safety Administration's National Roadside Survey.
       Sec. 143.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to mandate global positioning system (GPS) tracking 
     in private passenger motor vehicles without providing full 
     and appropriate consideration of privacy concerns under 5 
     U.S.C. chapter 5, subchapter II.

                    Federal Railroad Administration

                         safety and operations

       For necessary expenses of the Federal Railroad 
     Administration, not otherwise provided for, $218,298,000, of 
     which $15,900,000 shall remain available until expended.

                   railroad research and development

       For necessary expenses for railroad research and 
     development, $40,100,000, to remain available until expended.

       railroad rehabilitation and improvement financing program

       The Secretary of Transportation is authorized to issue 
     direct loans and loan guarantees pursuant to sections 501 
     through 504 of the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory 
     Reform Act of 1976 (Public Law 94-210), as amended, such 
     authority shall exist as long as any such direct loan or loan 
     guarantee is outstanding: Provided, That pursuant to section 
     502 of such Act, as amended, no new direct loans or loan 
     guarantee commitments shall be made using Federal funds for 
     the credit risk premium during fiscal year 2018, except for 
     federal funds awarded in accordance with section 3028(c) of 
     Public Law 114-94.

           federal-state partnership for state of good repair

       For necessary expenses related to Federal-State Partnership 
     for State of Good Repair grants as authorized by section 
     24911 of title 49, United States Code, $500,000,000, to 
     remain available until expended:  Provided, That the 
     Secretary may withhold up to one percent of the amount 
     provided under this heading for the costs of award and 
     project management oversight of grants carried out under 
     section 24911 of title 49, United States Code: Provided 
     further, That in selecting an applicant for a grant, the 
     Secretary shall first give preference to eligible projects 
     for which the environmental impact statement required under 
     the National Environmental Policy Act and design work is 
     already complete at the time of the grant application review, 
     or to projects that address major critical assets which have 
     conditions that pose a substantial risk now or in the future 
     to the reliability of train service.

        consolidated rail infrastructure and safety improvements

       For necessary expenses related to Consolidated Rail 
     Infrastructure and Safety Improvements Grants as authorized 
     by section 24407 of title 49, United States Code, 
     $25,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
     That the Secretary may withhold up to one percent of the 
     amount provided under this heading for the costs of award and 
     project management oversight of grants carried out under 
     section 24407 of title 49, United States Code.

     northeast corridor grants to the national railroad passenger 
                              corporation

       To enable the Secretary of Transportation to make grants to 
     the National Railroad Passenger Corporation for activities 
     associated with the Northeast Corridor as authorized by 
     section 11101(a) of the Fixing America's Surface 
     Transportation Act (division A of Public Law 114-94), 
     $328,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
     That the Secretary may retain up to one-half of 1 percent of 
     the funds provided under both this heading and the ``National 
     Network Grants to the National Railroad Passenger 
     Corporation'' heading to fund the costs of project management 
     and oversight of activities authorized by section 11101(c) of 
     division A of Public Law 114-94:  Provided further, That in 
     addition to the project management oversight funds authorized 
     under section 11101(c) of division A of Public Law 114-94, 
     the Secretary may retain up to an additional $5,000,000 of 
     the funds provided under this heading to fund expenses 
     associated with the Northeast Corridor Commission established 
     under section 24905 of title 49, United States Code:  
     Provided further, That of the amounts made available under 
     this heading and the ``National Network Grants to the 
     National Railroad Passenger Corporation'' heading, not less 
     than $50,000,000 shall be made available to bring Amtrak-
     served facilities and stations into compliance with the 
     Americans with Disabilities Act.

 national network grants to the national railroad passenger corporation

       To enable the Secretary of Transportation to make grants to 
     the National Railroad Passenger Corporation for activities 
     associated with the National Network as authorized by section 
     11101(b) of the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act 
     (division A of Public Law 114-94), $1,100,000,000, to remain 
     available until expended:  Provided, That the Secretary may 
     retain up to an additional $2,000,000 of the funds provided 
     under this heading to fund expenses associated with the 
     State-Supported Route Committee established under section 
     24712 of title 49, United States Code.

       administrative provisions--federal railroad administration

       Sec. 150.  None of the funds provided to the National 
     Railroad Passenger Corporation may be used to fund any 
     overtime costs in excess of $35,000 for any individual 
     employee:  Provided, That the President of Amtrak may waive 
     the cap set in the previous proviso for specific employees 
     when the President of Amtrak determines such a cap poses a 
     risk to the safety and operational efficiency of the system:  
     Provided further, That the President of Amtrak shall report 
     to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations each 
     quarter within 30 days of such quarter of the calendar year 
     on waivers granted to employees and amounts paid above the 
     cap for each month within such quarter and delineate the 
     reasons each waiver was granted:  Provided further, That the 
     President of Amtrak shall report to the House and Senate 
     Committees on Appropriations by March 1, 2018, a summary of 
     all overtime payments incurred by the Corporation for 2017 
     and the three prior calendar years:  Provided further, That 
     such summary shall include the total number of employees that 
     received waivers and the total overtime payments the 
     Corporation paid to those employees receiving waivers for 
     each month for 2017 and for the three prior calendar years.
       Sec. 151.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used for high-speed rail in the State of California or for 
     the California High-Speed Rail Authority, nor may any be used 
     by the Federal Railroad Administration to administer a grant 
     agreement

[[Page H6982]]

     with the California High-Speed Rail Authority that contains a 
     tapered matching requirement.
       Sec. 152.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     shall be used by the Surface Transportation Board to take any 
     actions with respect to the construction of a high speed rail 
     project in California unless the permit is issued by the 
     Board with respect to the project in its entirety.

                     Federal Transit Administration

                        administrative expenses

       For necessary administrative expenses of the Federal 
     Transit Administration's programs authorized by chapter 53 of 
     title 49, United States Code, $110,794,692:  Provided, That 
     none of the funds provided or limited in this Act may be used 
     to create a permanent office of transit security under this 
     heading:  Provided further, That upon submission to the 
     Congress of the fiscal year 2019 President's budget, the 
     Secretary of Transportation shall transmit to Congress the 
     annual report on New Starts, including proposed allocations 
     for fiscal year 2019.

                         transit formula grants

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

       For payment of obligations incurred in the Federal Public 
     Transportation Assistance Program in this account, and for 
     payment of obligations incurred in carrying out the 
     provisions of 49 U.S.C. 5305, 5307, 5310, 5311, 5312, 5314, 
     5318, 5329(e)(6), 5335, 5337, 5339, and 5340, as amended by 
     the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act, and section 
     20005(b) of Public Law 112-141, and section 3006(b) of the 
     Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act, $10,300,000,000, 
     to be derived from the Mass Transit Account of the Highway 
     Trust Fund and to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
     That funds available for the implementation or execution of 
     programs authorized under 49 U.S.C. 5305, 5307, 5310, 5311, 
     5312, 5314, 5318, 5329(e)(6), 5335, 5337, 5339, and 5340, as 
     amended by the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act, 
     and section 20005(b) of Public Law 112-141, and section 
     3006(b) of the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act, 
     shall not exceed total obligations of $9,733,353,407 in 
     fiscal year 2018.

                   technical assistance and training

       For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5314, 
     $5,000,000.

                       capital investment grants

       For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5309, 
     $1,752,989,851, to remain available until expended, of which 
     $1,007,929,851 shall be available for projects authorized 
     under section 5309(d) of title 49, United States Code, 
     $145,700,000 shall be available for projects authorized under 
     section 5309(e) of such title, $182,000,000 shall be 
     available for projects authorized under section 5309(h) of 
     the title, and $400,000,000 shall be available for projects 
     authorized under section 5309(q): Provided, That the 
     Secretary shall continue to administer the Capital Investment 
     Grant Program in accordance with the procedural and 
     substantive requirements of section 5309 of title 49.

      grants to the washington metropolitan area transit authority

       For grants to the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit 
     Authority as authorized under section 601 of division B of 
     Public Law 110-432, $150,000,000, to remain available until 
     expended:  Provided, That the Secretary of Transportation 
     shall approve grants for capital and preventive maintenance 
     expenditures for the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit 
     Authority only after receiving and reviewing a request for 
     each specific project:  Provided further, That prior to 
     approving such grants, the Secretary shall certify that the 
     Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority is making 
     progress to improve its safety management system in response 
     to the Federal Transit Administration's 2015 safety 
     management inspection:  Provided further, That prior to 
     approving such grants, the Secretary shall certify that the 
     Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority is making 
     progress toward full implementation of the corrective actions 
     identified in the 2014 Financial Management Oversight Review 
     Report:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall determine 
     that the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority has 
     placed the highest priority on those investments that will 
     improve the safety of the system before approving such 
     grants:  Provided further, That the Secretary, in order to 
     ensure safety throughout the rail system, may waive the 
     requirements of section 601(e)(1) of division B of Public Law 
     110-432 (112 Stat. 4968).

       administrative provisions--federal transit administration

       Sec. 160.  The limitations on obligations for the programs 
     of the Federal Transit Administration shall not apply to any 
     authority under 49 U.S.C. 5338, previously made available for 
     obligation, or to any other authority previously made 
     available for obligation.
       Sec. 161.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     funds appropriated or limited by this Act under the heading 
     ``Fixed Guideway Capital Investment'' of the Federal Transit 
     Administration for projects specified in this Act or 
     identified in reports accompanying this Act not obligated by 
     September 30, 2022, and other recoveries, shall be directed 
     to projects eligible to use the funds for the purposes for 
     which they were originally provided.
       Sec. 162.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any 
     funds appropriated before October 1, 2017, under any section 
     of chapter 53 of title 49, United States Code, that remain 
     available for expenditure, may be transferred to and 
     administered under the most recent appropriation heading for 
     any such section.
       Sec. 163. (a) Except as provided in subsection (b), none of 
     the funds in this or any other Act may be available to 
     advance in any way a new light or heavy rail project towards 
     a full funding grant agreement as defined by 49 U.S.C. 5309 
     for the Metropolitan Transit Authority of Harris County, 
     Texas if the proposed capital project is constructed on or 
     planned to be constructed on Richmond Avenue west of South 
     Shepherd Drive or on Post Oak Boulevard north of Richmond 
     Avenue in Houston, Texas.
       (b) The Metropolitan Transit Authority of Harris County, 
     Texas, may attempt to construct or construct a new fixed 
     guideway capital project, including light rail, in the 
     locations referred to in subsection (a) if--
       (1) voters in the jurisdiction that includes such locations 
     approve a ballot proposition that specifies routes on 
     Richmond Avenue west of South Shepherd Drive or on Post Oak 
     Boulevard north of Richmond Avenue in Houston, Texas; and
       (2) the proposed construction of such routes is part of a 
     comprehensive, multi-modal, service-area wide transportation 
     plan that includes multiple additional segments of fixed 
     guideway capital projects, including light rail for the 
     jurisdiction set forth in the ballot proposition. The ballot 
     language shall include reasonable cost estimates, sources of 
     revenue to be used and the total amount of bonded 
     indebtedness to be incurred as well as a description of each 
     route and the beginning and end point of each proposed 
     transit project.
       Sec. 164.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none 
     of the funds made available in this Act shall be used to 
     enter into a full funding grant agreement for a project with 
     a New Starts share greater than 50 percent.

             Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation

       The Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation is hereby 
     authorized to make such expenditures, within the limits of 
     funds and borrowing authority available to the Corporation, 
     and in accord with law, and to make such contracts and 
     commitments without regard to fiscal year limitations as 
     provided by section 104 of the Government Corporation Control 
     Act, as amended, as may be necessary in carrying out the 
     programs set forth in the Corporation's budget for the 
     current fiscal year.

                       operations and maintenance

                    (harbor maintenance trust fund)

       For necessary expenses to conduct the operations, 
     maintenance, and capital asset renewal activities of those 
     portions of the St. Lawrence Seaway owned, operated, and 
     maintained by the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development 
     Corporation, $31,346,012, to be derived from the Harbor 
     Maintenance Trust Fund, pursuant to Public Law 99-662. Of 
     that amount, $12,500,000 to be used on asset renewal 
     activities shall be made available through September 30, 
     2019.

                        Maritime Administration

                       maritime security program

       For necessary expenses to maintain and preserve a U.S.-flag 
     merchant fleet to serve the national security needs of the 
     United States, $300,000,000, to remain available until 
     expended.

                        operations and training

       For necessary expenses of operations and training 
     activities authorized by law, $175,620,000, of which 
     $22,000,000 shall remain available until expended for 
     maintenance and repair of training ships at State Maritime 
     Academies, and of which $6,000,000 shall remain available 
     until expended for National Security Multi-Mission Vessel 
     Program for State Maritime Academies and National Security, 
     and of which $2,400,000 shall remain available through 
     September 30, 2019, for the Student Incentive Program at 
     State Maritime Academies, and of which $1,800,000 shall 
     remain available until expended for training ship fuel 
     assistance payments, and of which $18,000,000 shall remain 
     available until expended for facilities maintenance and 
     repair, equipment, and capital improvements at the United 
     States Merchant Marine Academy, and of which $3,000,000 shall 
     remain available through September 30, 2019, for Maritime 
     Environment and Technology Assistance program authorized 
     under section 50307 of title 46, United States Code:  
     Provided, That not later than February 1, 2018, the 
     Administrator of the Maritime Administration shall transmit 
     to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations the 
     annual report on sexual assault and sexual harassment at the 
     United States Merchant Marine Academy as required pursuant to 
     section 3507 of Public Law 110-417.

                     assistance to small shipyards

       To make grants to qualified shipyards as authorized under 
     section 54101 of title 46, United States Code, as amended by 
     Public Law 113-281, $3,000,000 to remain available until 
     expended:  Provided, That the Secretary shall issue the 
     Notice of Funding Availability no later than 15 days after 
     enactment of this Act:  Provided further, That from 
     applications submitted under the previous proviso, the 
     Secretary of Transportation shall make grants no later than 
     120 days after enactment of this Act in such amounts as the

[[Page H6983]]

     Secretary determines:  Provided further, That not to exceed 2 
     percent of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be 
     available for necessary costs of grant administration.

                             ship disposal

       For necessary expenses related to the disposal of obsolete 
     vessels in the National Defense Reserve Fleet of the Maritime 
     Administration, $9,000,000, to remain available until 
     expended.

          maritime guaranteed loan (title xi) program account

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For administrative expenses to carry out the guaranteed 
     loan program, $3,000,000, which shall be transferred to and 
     merged for use by the Office of the Secretary's National 
     Surface Transportation and Innovative Finance Bureau to 
     administer the Title XI program in addition to those programs 
     listed in 49 U.S.C. 116(d)(1) .

           administrative provisions--maritime administration

       Sec. 170.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, 
     in addition to any existing authority, the Maritime 
     Administration is authorized to furnish utilities and 
     services and make necessary repairs in connection with any 
     lease, contract, or occupancy involving Government property 
     under control of the Maritime Administration:  Provided, That 
     payments received therefor shall be credited to the 
     appropriation charged with the cost thereof and shall remain 
     available until expended:  Provided further, That rental 
     payments under any such lease, contract, or occupancy for 
     items other than such utilities, services, or repairs shall 
     be covered into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.
       Sec. 171.  None of the funds available or appropriated in 
     this Act shall be used by the United States Department of 
     Transportation or the United States Maritime Administration 
     to negotiate or otherwise execute, enter into, facilitate or 
     perform fee-for-service contracts for vessel disposal, 
     scrapping or recycling, unless there is no qualified domestic 
     ship recycler that will pay any sum of money to purchase and 
     scrap or recycle a vessel owned, operated or managed by the 
     Maritime Administration or that is part of the National 
     Defense Reserve Fleet:  Provided, That such sales offers must 
     be consistent with the solicitation and provide that the work 
     will be performed in a timely manner at a facility qualified 
     within the meaning of section 3502 of Public Law 106-398:  
     Provided further, That nothing contained herein shall affect 
     the Maritime Administration's authority to award contracts at 
     least cost to the Federal Government and consistent with the 
     requirements of 54 U.S.C. 308704, section 3502, or otherwise 
     authorized under the Federal Acquisition Regulation.


                             penalty wages

       Sec. 172. 
       (a) Foreign and Intercoastal Voyages.--Section 10313(g) of 
     title 46, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (2)--
       (A) by striking ``all claims in a class action suit by 
     seamen'' and inserting ``each claim by a seaman''; and
       (B) by striking ``the seamen'' and inserting ``the 
     seaman''; and
       (2) in paragraph (3)--
       (A) by striking ``class action''; and
       (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``, by a seaman who is 
     a claimant in the suit,'' and inserting ``by the seaman''.
       (b) Coastwise Voyages.--Section 10504(c) of such title is 
     amended--
       (1) in paragraph (2)--
       (A) by striking ``all claims in a class action suit by 
     seamen'' and inserting ``each claim by a seaman''; and
       (B) by striking ``the seamen'' and inserting ``the 
     seaman''; and
       (2) in paragraph (3)--
       (A) by striking ``class action''; and
       (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``, by a seaman who is 
     a claimant in the suit'' and inserting ``by the seaman''.

         Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration

                          operational expenses

       For necessary operational expenses of the Pipeline and 
     Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, $20,500,000.

                       hazardous materials safety

       For expenses necessary to discharge the hazardous materials 
     safety functions of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials 
     Safety Administration, $57,000,000, of which $7,570,000 shall 
     remain available until September 30, 2020:  Provided, That up 
     to $800,000 in fees collected under 49 U.S.C. 5108(g) shall 
     be deposited in the general fund of the Treasury as 
     offsetting receipts:  Provided further, That there may be 
     credited to this appropriation, to be available until 
     expended, funds received from States, counties, 
     municipalities, other public authorities, and private sources 
     for expenses incurred for training, for reports publication 
     and dissemination, and for travel expenses incurred in 
     performance of hazardous materials exemptions and approvals 
     functions.

                            pipeline safety

                         (pipeline safety fund)

                    (oil spill liability trust fund)

       For expenses necessary to conduct the functions of the 
     pipeline safety program, for grants-in-aid to carry out a 
     pipeline safety program, as authorized by 49 U.S.C. 60107, 
     and to discharge the pipeline program responsibilities of the 
     Oil Pollution Act of 1990, $162,000,000, of which $23,000,000 
     shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund and 
     shall remain available until September 30, 2020; and of which 
     $131,000,000 shall be derived from the Pipeline Safety Fund, 
     of which $64,736,000 shall remain available until September 
     30, 2020; and of which $8,000,000 shall be derived from fees 
     collected under 49 U.S.C. 60302 and deposited in the 
     Underground Natural Gas Storage Facility Safety Account and 
     shall remain available for carrying out 49 U.S.C. 60141, of 
     which $6,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 
     2020.

                     emergency preparedness grants

                     (emergency preparedness fund)

       Notwithstanding the fiscal year limitation specified in 49 
     U.S.C. 5116, not more than $28,318,000 shall be made 
     available for obligation in fiscal year 2018 from amounts 
     made available by 49 U.S.C. 5116(h), and 5128(b) and (c):  
     Provided, That notwithstanding 49 U.S.C. 5116(h)(4), not more 
     than 4 percent of the amounts made available from this 
     account shall be available to pay administrative costs:  
     Provided further, That none of the funds made available by 49 
     U.S.C. 5116(h), 5128(b), or 5128(c) shall be made available 
     for obligation by individuals other than the Secretary of 
     Transportation, or his or her designee:  Provided further, 
     That notwithstanding 49 U.S.C. 5128(b) and (c) and the 
     current year obligation limitation, prior year recoveries 
     recognized in the current year shall be available to develop 
     a hazardous materials response training curriculum for 
     emergency responders, including response activities for the 
     transportation of crude oil, ethanol and other flammable 
     liquids by rail, consistent with National Fire Protection 
     Association standards, and to make such training available 
     through an electronic format:  Provided further, That the 
     prior year recoveries made available under this heading shall 
     also be available to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5116(a)(1)(C) and 
     5116(i).

                      Office of Inspector General

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Office of the Inspector 
     General to carry out the provisions of the Inspector General 
     Act of 1978, as amended, $92,152,000:  Provided, That the 
     Inspector General shall have all necessary authority, in 
     carrying out the duties specified in the Inspector General 
     Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. 3), to investigate allegations 
     of fraud, including false statements to the government (18 
     U.S.C. 1001), by any person or entity that is subject to 
     regulation by the Department of Transportation:  Provided 
     further, That the funds made available under this heading may 
     be used to investigate, pursuant to section 41712 of title 
     49, United States Code: (1) unfair or deceptive practices and 
     unfair methods of competition by domestic and foreign air 
     carriers and ticket agents; and (2) the compliance of 
     domestic and foreign air carriers with respect to item (1) of 
     this proviso.

            General Provisions--Department of Transportation

       Sec. 180. (a) During the current fiscal year, applicable 
     appropriations to the Department of Transportation shall be 
     available for maintenance and operation of aircraft; hire of 
     passenger motor vehicles and aircraft; purchase of liability 
     insurance for motor vehicles operating in foreign countries 
     on official department business; and uniforms or allowances 
     therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902).
       (b) During the current fiscal year, applicable 
     appropriations to the Department and its operating 
     administrations shall be available for the purchase, 
     maintenance, operation, and deployment of unmanned aircraft 
     systems that advance the Department's, or its operating 
     administrations', missions.
       (c) Any unmanned aircraft system purchased or procured by 
     the Department prior to the enactment of this Act shall be 
     deemed authorized.
       Sec. 181.  Appropriations contained in this Act for the 
     Department of Transportation shall be available for services 
     as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals 
     not to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to the rate for an 
     Executive Level IV.
       Sec. 182. (a) No recipient of funds made available in this 
     Act shall disseminate personal information (as defined in 18 
     U.S.C. 2725(3)) obtained by a State department of motor 
     vehicles in connection with a motor vehicle record as defined 
     in 18 U.S.C. 2725(1), except as provided in 18 U.S.C. 2721 
     for a use permitted under 18 U.S.C. 2721.
       (b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), the Secretary shall not 
     withhold funds provided in this Act for any grantee if a 
     State is in noncompliance with this provision.
       Sec. 183.  Funds received by the Federal Highway 
     Administration and Federal Railroad Administration from 
     States, counties, municipalities, other public authorities, 
     and private sources for expenses incurred for training may be 
     credited respectively to the Federal Highway Administration's 
     ``Federal-Aid Highways'' account and to the Federal Railroad 
     Administration's ``Safety and Operations'' account, except 
     for State rail safety inspectors participating in training 
     pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 20105.
       Sec. 184. (a) None of the funds provided in this Act to the 
     Department of Transportation may be used to make a loan, loan 
     guarantee, line of credit, or discretionary grant totaling 
     $500,000 or more unless the Secretary of Transportation 
     notifies the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations 
     not less than 3 full business days before

[[Page H6984]]

     any project competitively selected to receive any 
     discretionary grant award, letter of intent, loan commitment, 
     loan guarantee commitment, line of credit commitment, or full 
     funding grant agreement is announced by the Department or its 
     modal administrations:  Provided, That the Secretary gives 
     concurrent notification to the House and Senate Committees on 
     Appropriations for any ``quick release'' of funds from the 
     emergency relief program:  Provided further, That no 
     notification shall involve funds that are not available for 
     obligation.
       (b) In addition to the notification required in subsection 
     (a), none of the funds made available in this Act to the 
     Department of Transportation may be used to make a loan, loan 
     guarantee, line of credit, or discretionary grant unless the 
     Secretary of Transportation provides the House and Senate 
     Committees on Appropriations a comprehensive list of all such 
     loans, loan guarantees, lines of credit, or discretionary 
     grants that will be announced not less the 3 full business 
     days before such announcement:  Provided, That the 
     requirement to provide a list in this subsection does not 
     apply to any ``quick release'' of funds from the emergency 
     relief program:  Provided further, That no list shall involve 
     funds that are not available for obligation.
       Sec. 185.  Rebates, refunds, incentive payments, minor fees 
     and other funds received by the Department of Transportation 
     from travel management centers, charge card programs, the 
     subleasing of building space, and miscellaneous sources are 
     to be credited to appropriations of the Department of 
     Transportation and allocated to elements of the Department of 
     Transportation using fair and equitable criteria and such 
     funds shall be available until expended.
       Sec. 186.  Amounts made available in this or any other Act 
     that the Secretary determines represent improper payments by 
     the Department of Transportation to a third-party contractor 
     under a financial assistance award, which are recovered 
     pursuant to law, shall be available--
       (1) to reimburse the actual expenses incurred by the 
     Department of Transportation in recovering improper payments; 
     and
       (2) to pay contractors for services provided in recovering 
     improper payments or contractor support in the implementation 
     of the Improper Payments Information Act of 2002:  Provided, 
     That amounts in excess of that required for paragraphs (1) 
     and (2)--
       (A) shall be credited to and merged with the appropriation 
     from which the improper payments were made, and shall be 
     available for the purposes and period for which such 
     appropriations are available:  Provided further, That where 
     specific project or accounting information associated with 
     the improper payment or payments is not readily available, 
     the Secretary may credit an appropriate account, which shall 
     be available for the purposes and period associated with the 
     account so credited; or
       (B) if no such appropriation remains available, shall be 
     deposited in the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts:  
     Provided further, That prior to the transfer of any such 
     recovery to an appropriations account, the Secretary shall 
     notify the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations of 
     the amount and reasons for such transfer:  Provided further, 
     That for purposes of this section, the term ``improper 
     payments'' has the same meaning as that provided in section 
     2(d)(2) of Public Law 107-300.
       Sec. 187.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if 
     any funds provided in or limited by this Act are subject to a 
     reprogramming action that requires notice to be provided to 
     the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations, 
     transmission of said reprogramming notice shall be provided 
     solely to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations, 
     and said reprogramming action shall be approved or denied 
     solely by the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations:  
     Provided, That the Secretary of Transportation may provide 
     notice to other congressional committees of the action of the 
     House and Senate Committees on Appropriations on such 
     reprogramming but not sooner than 30 days following the date 
     on which the reprogramming action has been approved or denied 
     by the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations.
       Sec. 188.  Funds appropriated in this Act to the modal 
     administrations may be obligated for the Office of the 
     Secretary for the costs related to assessments or 
     reimbursable agreements only when such amounts are for the 
     costs of goods and services that are purchased to provide a 
     direct benefit to the applicable modal administration or 
     administrations.
       Sec. 189.  The Secretary of Transportation is authorized to 
     carry out a program that establishes uniform standards for 
     developing and supporting agency transit pass and transit 
     benefits authorized under section 7905 of title 5, United 
     States Code, including distribution of transit benefits by 
     various paper and electronic media.
       Sec. 190.  The Department of Transportation may use funds 
     provided by this Act, or any other Act, to assist a contract 
     under title 49 U.S.C. or title 23 U.S.C. utilizing 
     geographic, economic, or any other hiring preference not 
     otherwise authorized by law, or to amend a rule, regulation, 
     policy or other measure that forbids a recipient of a Federal 
     Highway Administration or Federal Transit Administration 
     grant from imposing such hiring preference on a contract or 
     construction project with which the Department of 
     Transportation is assisting, only if the grant recipient 
     certifies the following:
       (1) that except with respect to apprentices or trainees, a 
     pool of readily available but unemployed individuals 
     possessing the knowledge, skill, and ability to perform the 
     work that the contract requires resides in the jurisdiction;
       (2) that the grant recipient will include appropriate 
     provisions in its bid document ensuring that the contractor 
     does not displace any of its existing employees in order to 
     satisfy such hiring preference; and
       (3) that any increase in the cost of labor, training, or 
     delays resulting from the use of such hiring preference does 
     not delay or displace any transportation project in the 
     applicable Statewide Transportation Improvement Program or 
     Transportation Improvement Program.
       This title may be cited as the ``Department of 
     Transportation Appropriations Act, 2018''.

                                TITLE II

              DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

                     Management and Administration

                           executive offices

       For necessary salaries and expenses for Executive Offices, 
     which shall be comprised of the offices of the Secretary, 
     Deputy Secretary, Adjudicatory Services, Congressional and 
     Intergovernmental Relations, Public Affairs, Small and 
     Disadvantaged Business Utilization, and the Center for Faith-
     Based and Neighborhood Partnerships, $14,708,000:  Provided, 
     That not to exceed $25,000 of the amount made available under 
     this heading shall be available to the Secretary for official 
     reception and representation expenses as the Secretary may 
     determine.

                     administrative support offices

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For necessary salaries and expenses for Administrative 
     Support Offices, $518,303,000, of which $10,762,000 shall be 
     available for, including the establishment of, the Office of 
     the Chief Operations Officer; $50,340,000 shall be available 
     for the Office of the Chief Financial Officer; $92,006,000 
     shall be available for the Office of the General Counsel; 
     $205,873,000 shall be available for the Office of 
     Administration; $38,245,000 shall be available for the Office 
     of the Chief Human Capital Officer; $49,588,000 shall be 
     available for the Office of Field Policy and Management; 
     $19,065,000 shall be available for the Office of the Chief 
     Procurement Officer; $3,570,000 shall be available for the 
     Office of Departmental Equal Employment Opportunity; 
     $4,975,000 shall be available for the Office of Strategic 
     Planning and Management; and $43,879,000 shall be available 
     for the Office of the Chief Information Officer:  Provided, 
     That funds provided under this heading may be used for 
     necessary administrative and non-administrative expenses of 
     the Department of Housing and Urban Development, not 
     otherwise provided for, including purchase of uniforms, or 
     allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; 
     hire of passenger motor vehicles; and services as authorized 
     by 5 U.S.C. 3109:  Provided further, That notwithstanding any 
     other provision of law, funds appropriated under this heading 
     may be used for advertising and promotional activities that 
     directly support program activities funded in this title:  
     Provided further, That in addition to the transfer authority 
     under section 221 of this Act, of the amount appropriated for 
     the Office of the Chief Operations Officer under this 
     heading, the Secretary may transfer up to $10,000,000 to the 
     heading ``Information Technology Fund'':  Provided further, 
     That the Secretary shall provide the House and Senate 
     Committees on Appropriations quarterly written notification 
     regarding the status of pending congressional reports:  
     Provided further, That the Secretary shall provide in 
     electronic form all signed reports required by Congress.

                  Program Office Salaries and Expenses

                       public and indian housing

       For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Public 
     and Indian Housing, $216,633,000.

                   community planning and development

       For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of 
     Community Planning and Development, $107,554,000.

                                housing

       For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of 
     Housing, $392,000,000.

                    policy development and research

       For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Policy 
     Development and Research, $24,065,000.

                   fair housing and equal opportunity

       For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Fair 
     Housing and Equal Opportunity, $69,808,000.

            office of lead hazard control and healthy homes

       For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Lead 
     Hazard Control and Healthy Homes, $7,600,000.

                          working capital fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For the working capital fund for the Department of Housing 
     and Urban Development (referred to in this paragraph as the 
     ``Fund''), pursuant, in part, to section 7(f) of the 
     Department of Housing and Urban Development Act (42 U.S.C. 
     3535(f)), amounts transferred to the Fund under this heading 
     shall be available for Federal shared services used by 
     offices and agencies of the Department, and for such portion 
     of any office or agency's printing, records management,

[[Page H6985]]

     space renovation, furniture, supply services, or other shared 
     services as the Secretary determines shall be derived from 
     centralized sources made available by the Department to all 
     offices and agencies and funded through the Fund:  Provided, 
     That of the amounts made available in this title for salaries 
     and expenses under the headings ``Executive Offices'', 
     ``Administrative Support Offices'', ``Program Office Salaries 
     and Expenses'', and ``Government National Mortgage 
     Association'', the Secretary shall transfer to the Fund such 
     amounts, to remain available until expended, as are necessary 
     to fund services, specified in the matter preceding the first 
     proviso, for which the appropriation would otherwise have 
     been available, and may transfer not to exceed an additional 
     $5,000,000, in aggregate, from all such appropriations, to be 
     merged with the Fund and to remain available until expended 
     for use for any office or agency:  Provided further, That 
     amounts in the Fund shall be the only amounts available to 
     each office or agency of the Department for the services, or 
     portion of services, specified in the matter preceding the 
     first proviso:  Provided further, That with respect to the 
     Fund, the authorities and conditions under this heading shall 
     supplement the authorities and conditions provided under 
     section 7(f): Provided further, That up to $6,550,000 in the 
     Fund may be available for the management reporting initiative 
     to improve the effectiveness of enterprise data governance, 
     analysis, and reporting, including information technology 
     investments to make such improvements: Provided further, That 
     to carry out the previous proviso, the Secretary shall 
     transfer any amounts for related information technology 
     investments to the heading ``Information Technology Fund''.

                       Public and Indian Housing

                     tenant-based rental assistance

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For activities and assistance for the provision of tenant-
     based rental assistance authorized under the United States 
     Housing Act of 1937, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.) 
     (``the Act'' herein), not otherwise provided for, 
     $16,486,725,000, to remain available until expended, shall be 
     available on October 1, 2017 (in addition to the 
     $4,000,000,000 previously appropriated under this heading 
     that shall be available on October 1, 2017), and 
     $4,000,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall be 
     available on October 1, 2018:  Provided, That the amounts 
     made available under this heading are provided as follows:
       (1) $18,709,725,000 shall be available for renewals of 
     expiring section 8 tenant-based annual contributions 
     contracts (including renewals of enhanced vouchers under any 
     provision of law authorizing such assistance under section 
     8(t) of the Act) and including renewal of other special 
     purpose incremental vouchers:  Provided, That notwithstanding 
     any other provision of law, from amounts provided under this 
     paragraph and any carryover, the Secretary for the calendar 
     year 2018 funding cycle shall provide renewal funding for 
     each public housing agency based on validated voucher 
     management system (VMS) leasing and cost data for the prior 
     calendar year and by applying an inflation factor as 
     established by the Secretary, by notice published in the 
     Federal Register, and by making any necessary adjustments for 
     the costs associated with the first-time renewal of vouchers 
     under this paragraph including tenant protection, HOPE VI, 
     and Choice Neighborhoods vouchers:  Provided further, That 
     none of the funds provided under this paragraph may be used 
     to fund a total number of unit months under lease which 
     exceeds a public housing agency's authorized level of units 
     under contract, except for public housing agencies 
     participating in the MTW demonstration, which are instead 
     governed by the terms and conditions of their MTW agreements: 
      Provided further, That the Secretary shall, to the extent 
     necessary to stay within the amount specified under this 
     paragraph (except as otherwise modified under this 
     paragraph), prorate each public housing agency's allocation 
     otherwise established pursuant to this paragraph:  Provided 
     further, That except as provided in the following provisos, 
     the entire amount specified under this paragraph (except as 
     otherwise modified under this paragraph) shall be obligated 
     to the public housing agencies based on the allocation and 
     pro rata method described above, and the Secretary shall 
     notify public housing agencies of their annual budget by the 
     later of 60 days after enactment of this Act or March 1, 
     2018:  Provided further, That the Secretary may extend the 
     notification period with the prior written approval of the 
     House and Senate Committees on Appropriations:  Provided 
     further, That public housing agencies participating in the 
     MTW demonstration shall be funded pursuant to their MTW 
     agreements and in accordance with the requirements of the MTW 
     program and shall be subject to the same pro rata adjustments 
     under the previous provisos:  Provided further, That the 
     Secretary may offset public housing agencies' calendar year 
     2018 allocations based on the excess amounts of public 
     housing agencies' net restricted assets accounts, including 
     HUD held programmatic reserves (in accordance with VMS data 
     in calendar year 2017 that is verifiable and complete), as 
     determined by the Secretary:  Provided further, That public 
     housing agencies participating in the MTW demonstration shall 
     also be subject to the offset, as determined by the Secretary 
     from the agencies' calendar year 2018 MTW funding allocation: 
      Provided further, That the Secretary shall use any offset 
     referred to in the previous two provisos throughout the 
     calendar year to prevent the termination of rental assistance 
     for families as the result of insufficient funding, as 
     determined by the Secretary, and to avoid or reduce the 
     proration of renewal funding allocations:  Provided further, 
     That up to $100,000,000 shall be available only: (1) for 
     adjustments in the allocations for public housing agencies, 
     after application for an adjustment by a public housing 
     agency that experienced a significant increase, as determined 
     by the Secretary, in renewal costs of vouchers resulting from 
     unforeseen circumstances or from portability under section 
     8(r) of the Act; (2) for vouchers that were not in use during 
     the previous 12-month period in order to be available to meet 
     a commitment pursuant to section 8(o)(13) of the Act; (3) for 
     adjustments for costs associated with HUD-Veterans Affairs 
     Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) vouchers; and (4) for public 
     housing agencies that despite taking reasonable cost savings 
     measures, as determined by the Secretary, would otherwise be 
     required to terminate rental assistance for families as a 
     result of insufficient funding:  Provided further, That the 
     Secretary shall allocate amounts under the previous proviso 
     based on need, as determined by the Secretary;
       (2) $60,000,000 shall be for section 8 rental assistance 
     for relocation and replacement of housing units that are 
     demolished or disposed of pursuant to section 18 of the Act, 
     conversion of section 23 projects to assistance under section 
     8, the family unification program under section 8(x) of the 
     Act, relocation of witnesses in connection with efforts to 
     combat crime in public and assisted housing pursuant to a 
     request from a law enforcement or prosecution agency, 
     enhanced vouchers under any provision of law authorizing such 
     assistance under section 8(t) of the Act, HOPE VI and Choice 
     Neighborhood vouchers, mandatory and voluntary conversions, 
     and tenant protection assistance including replacement and 
     relocation assistance or for project-based assistance to 
     prevent the displacement of unassisted elderly tenants 
     currently residing in section 202 properties financed between 
     1959 and 1974 that are refinanced pursuant to Public Law 106-
     569, as amended, or under the authority as provided under 
     this Act:  Provided, That when a public housing development 
     is submitted for demolition or disposition under section 18 
     of the Act, the Secretary may provide section 8 rental 
     assistance when the units pose an imminent health and safety 
     risk to residents:  Provided further, That the Secretary may 
     only provide replacement vouchers for units that were 
     occupied within the previous 24 months that cease to be 
     available as assisted housing, subject only to the 
     availability of funds:  Provided further, That of the amounts 
     made available under this paragraph, $5,000,000 may be 
     available to provide tenant protection assistance, not 
     otherwise provided under this paragraph, to residents 
     residing in low vacancy areas and who may have to pay rents 
     greater than 30 percent of household income, as the result 
     of: (A) the maturity of a HUD-insured, HUD-held or section 
     202 loan that requires the permission of the Secretary prior 
     to loan prepayment; (B) the expiration of a rental assistance 
     contract for which the tenants are not eligible for enhanced 
     voucher or tenant protection assistance under existing law; 
     or (C) the expiration of affordability restrictions 
     accompanying a mortgage or preservation program administered 
     by the Secretary:  Provided further, That such tenant 
     protection assistance made available under the previous 
     proviso may be provided under the authority of section 8(t) 
     or section 8(o)(13) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 
     (42 U.S.C. 1437f(t)):  Provided further, That any tenant 
     protection voucher made available from amounts under this 
     paragraph shall not be reissued by any public housing agency, 
     except the replacement vouchers as defined by the Secretary 
     by notice, when the initial family that received any such 
     voucher no longer receives such voucher, and the authority 
     for any public housing agency to issue any such voucher shall 
     cease to exist:  Provided further, That the Secretary may 
     provide section 8 rental assistance from amounts made 
     available under this paragraph for units assisted under a 
     project-based subsidy contract funded under the ``Project-
     Based Rental Assistance'' heading under this title where the 
     owner has received a Notice of Default and the units pose an 
     imminent health and safety risk to residents:  Provided 
     further, That to the extent that the Secretary determines 
     that such units are not feasible for continued rental 
     assistance payments or transfer of the subsidy contract 
     associated with such units to another project or projects and 
     owner or owners, any remaining amounts associated with such 
     units under such contract shall be recaptured and used to 
     reimburse amounts used under this paragraph for rental 
     assistance under the preceding proviso;
       (3) $1,550,000,000 shall be for administrative and other 
     expenses of public housing agencies in administering the 
     section 8 tenant-based rental assistance program, of which up 
     to $10,000,000 shall be available to the Secretary to 
     allocate to public housing agencies that need additional 
     funds to administer their section 8 programs, including fees 
     associated with section 8 tenant protection rental 
     assistance, the administration of disaster related vouchers, 
     Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing vouchers, and other 
     special purpose incremental vouchers:  Provided, That no less 
     than $1,540,000,000 of the amount

[[Page H6986]]

     provided in this paragraph shall be allocated to public 
     housing agencies for the calendar year 2018 funding cycle 
     based on section 8(q) of the Act (and related Appropriation 
     Act provisions) as in effect immediately before the enactment 
     of the Quality Housing and Work Responsibility Act of 1998 
     (Public Law 105-276):  Provided further, That if the amounts 
     made available under this paragraph are insufficient to pay 
     the amounts determined under the previous proviso, the 
     Secretary may decrease the amounts allocated to agencies by a 
     uniform percentage applicable to all agencies receiving 
     funding under this paragraph or may, to the extent necessary 
     to provide full payment of amounts determined under the 
     previous proviso, utilize unobligated balances, including 
     recaptures and carryovers, remaining from funds appropriated 
     to the Department of Housing and Urban Development under this 
     heading from prior fiscal years, excluding special purpose 
     vouchers, notwithstanding the purposes for which such amounts 
     were appropriated:  Provided further, That all public housing 
     agencies participating in the MTW demonstration shall be 
     funded pursuant to their MTW agreements, and in accordance 
     with the requirements of the MTW program and shall be subject 
     to the same uniform percentage decrease as under the previous 
     proviso:  Provided further, That amounts provided under this 
     paragraph shall be only for activities related to the 
     provision of tenant-based rental assistance authorized under 
     section 8, including related development activities;
       (4) $150,000,000 for the renewal of tenant-based assistance 
     contracts under section 811 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
     Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 8013), including necessary 
     administrative expenses:  Provided, That administrative and 
     other expenses of public housing agencies in administering 
     the special purpose vouchers in this paragraph shall be 
     funded under the same terms and be subject to the same pro 
     rata reduction as the percent decrease for administrative and 
     other expenses to public housing agencies under paragraph (3) 
     of this heading:  Provided further, That any amounts provided 
     under this paragraph in this Act or prior Acts, remaining 
     available after funding renewals and administrative expenses 
     under this paragraph, shall be available for incremental 
     tenant-based assistance contracts under such section 811, 
     including necessary administrative expenses;
       (5) the Secretary shall separately track all special 
     purpose vouchers funded under this heading, including the 
     renewal, from amounts provided under paragraph (1) under this 
     heading, of HUD-VASH vouchers, funded under this heading in 
     prior Acts to address veterans' homelessness, of no less than 
     $577,000,000;
       (6) $7,000,000 shall be for renewal grants, including 
     rental assistance and associated administrative fees for 
     Tribal HUD-VA Supportive Housing to serve Native American 
     veterans that are homeless or at-risk of homelessness living 
     on or near a reservation or Indian areas:  Provided, That 
     such amount shall be made available for renewal grants to the 
     recipients that received assistance under the rental 
     assistance and supportive housing demonstration program for 
     Native American veterans authorized under the heading 
     ``Tenant-Based Rental Assistance'' in title II of division K 
     of the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations 
     Act, 2015 (Public Law 113-235, 128 Stat. 2733):  Provided 
     further, That the Secretary shall be authorized to specify 
     criteria for renewal grants, including data on the 
     utilization of assistance reported by grant recipients under 
     the demonstration program:  Provided further, That renewal 
     grants under this paragraph shall be administered by block 
     grant recipients in accordance with program requirements 
     under the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-
     Determination Act of 1996:  Provided further, That assistance 
     under this paragraph shall be modeled after, with necessary 
     and appropriate adjustments for Native American grant 
     recipients and veterans, the rental assistance and supportive 
     housing program known as HUD-VASH program, including 
     administration in conjunction with the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs and overall implementation of section 8(o)(19) of the 
     United States Housing Act of 1937:  Provided further, That 
     the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may waive, or 
     specify alternative requirements for any provision of any 
     statute or regulation that the Secretary administers in 
     connection with the use of funds made available under this 
     paragraph (except requirements related to fair housing, 
     nondiscrimination, labor standards, and the environment), 
     upon a finding by the Secretary that any such waiver or 
     alternative requirements are necessary for the effective 
     delivery and administration of such assistance:  Provided 
     further, That grant recipients shall report to the Secretary 
     on utilization of such rental assistance and other program 
     data, as prescribed by the Secretary and;
       (7) $10,000,000 shall be available to support modernization 
     of public housing agency (PHA) information technology systems 
     with respect to administration of program data and funding 
     provided under this heading, including related expenses; 
     Provided, That the Secretary may transfer up to $10,000,000 
     of the amounts provided under this paragraph to the ``Public 
     Housing Capital Fund'' heading under this title to support 
     modernization of PHA information technology systems with 
     respect to administration of program data and funding under 
     such heading, including related expenses.

                        housing certificate fund

                        (including rescissions)

       Unobligated balances, including recaptures and carryover, 
     remaining from funds appropriated to the Department of 
     Housing and Urban Development under this heading, the heading 
     ``Annual Contributions for Assisted Housing'' and the heading 
     ``Project-Based Rental Assistance'', for fiscal year 2018 and 
     prior years may be used for renewal of or amendments to 
     section 8 project-based contracts and for performance-based 
     contract administrators, notwithstanding the purposes for 
     which such funds were appropriated:  Provided, That any 
     obligated balances of contract authority from fiscal year 
     1974 and prior that have been terminated shall be rescinded:  
     Provided further, That amounts heretofore recaptured, or 
     recaptured during the current fiscal year, from section 8 
     project-based contracts from source years fiscal year 1975 
     through fiscal year 1987 are hereby rescinded, and an amount 
     of additional new budget authority, equivalent to the amount 
     rescinded is hereby appropriated, to remain available until 
     expended, for the purposes set forth under this heading, in 
     addition to amounts otherwise available.

                      public housing capital fund

       For the Public Housing Capital Fund Program to carry out 
     capital and management activities for public housing 
     agencies, as authorized under section 9 of the United States 
     Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g) (the ``Act'') 
     $1,850,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021: 
      Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law or 
     regulation, during fiscal year 2018, the Secretary of Housing 
     and Urban Development may not delegate to any Department 
     official other than the Deputy Secretary and the Assistant 
     Secretary for Public and Indian Housing any authority under 
     paragraph (2) of section 9(j) regarding the extension of the 
     time periods under such section:  Provided further, That for 
     purposes of such section 9(j), the term ``obligate'' means, 
     with respect to amounts, that the amounts are subject to a 
     binding agreement that will result in outlays, immediately or 
     in the future:  Provided further, That up to $8,300,000 shall 
     be to support ongoing public housing financial and physical 
     assessment activities:  Provided further, That up to 
     $1,000,000 shall be to support the costs of administrative 
     and judicial receiverships:  Provided further, That of the 
     total amount provided under this heading, not to exceed 
     $20,000,000 shall be available for the Secretary to make 
     grants, notwithstanding section 203 of this Act, to public 
     housing agencies for emergency capital needs including safety 
     and security measures necessary to address crime and drug-
     related activity as well as needs resulting from unforeseen 
     or unpreventable emergencies and natural disasters excluding 
     Presidentially declared emergencies and natural disasters 
     under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
     Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) occurring in fiscal year 2018:  
     Provided further, That of the amount made available under the 
     previous proviso, not less than $5,000,000 shall be for 
     safety and security measures:  Provided further, That of the 
     total amount provided under this heading $35,000,000 shall be 
     for supportive services, service coordinator and congregate 
     services as authorized by section 34 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 
     1437z-6) and the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-
     Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4101 et seq.): Provided 
     further, That of the total amount made available under this 
     heading, up to $15,000,000 shall be for a Jobs-Plus 
     initiative modeled after the Jobs-Plus demonstration: 
     Provided further, That funding provided under the previous 
     proviso shall be available for competitive grants to 
     partnerships between public housing authorities, local 
     workforce investment boards established under section 117 of 
     the Workforce Investment Act of 1998, and other agencies and 
     organizations that provide support to help public housing 
     residents obtain employment and increase earnings: Provided 
     further, That applicants must demonstrate the ability to 
     provide services to residents, partner with workforce 
     investment boards, and leverage service dollars: Provided 
     further, That the Secretary may allow public housing agencies 
     to request exemptions from rent and income limitation 
     requirements under sections 3 and 6 of the United States 
     Housing Act of 1937 as necessary to implement the Jobs-Plus 
     program, on such terms and conditions as the Secretary may 
     approve upon a finding by the Secretary that any such waivers 
     or alternative requirements are necessary for the effective 
     implementation of the Jobs-Plus initiative as a voluntary 
     program for residents: Provided further, That the Secretary 
     shall publish by notice in the Federal Register any waivers 
     or alternative requirements pursuant to the preceding proviso 
     no later than 10 days before the effective date of such 
     notice:  Provided further, That for funds provided under this 
     heading, the limitation in section 9(g)(1) of the Act shall 
     be 25 percent:  Provided further, That the Secretary may 
     waive the limitation in the previous proviso to allow public 
     housing agencies to fund activities authorized under section 
     9(e)(1)(C) of the Act:  Provided further, That the Secretary 
     shall notify public housing agencies requesting waivers under 
     the previous proviso if the request is approved or denied 
     within 14 days of submitting the request:  Provided further, 
     That from the funds made available under this heading, the 
     Secretary shall provide bonus awards in fiscal year 2018 to 
     public housing agencies that are designated high

[[Page H6987]]

     performers:  Provided further, That the Department shall 
     notify public housing agencies of their formula allocation 
     within 60 days of enactment of this Act.

                     public housing operating fund

       For 2018 payments to public housing agencies for the 
     operation and management of public housing, as authorized by 
     section 9(e) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 
     U.S.C. 1437g(e)), $4,400,000,000, to remain available until 
     September 30, 2019.

                    choice neighborhoods initiative

       For competitive grants under the Choice Neighborhoods 
     Initiative (subject to section 24 of the United States 
     Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437v), unless otherwise 
     specified under this heading), for transformation, 
     rehabilitation, and replacement housing needs of both public 
     and HUD-assisted housing and to transform neighborhoods of 
     poverty into functioning, sustainable mixed income 
     neighborhoods with appropriate services, schools, public 
     assets, transportation and access to jobs, $20,000,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2020:  Provided, That 
     grant funds may be used for resident and community services, 
     community development, and affordable housing needs in the 
     community, and for conversion of vacant or foreclosed 
     properties to affordable housing:  Provided further, That the 
     use of funds made available under this heading shall not be 
     deemed to be public housing notwithstanding section 3(b)(1) 
     of such Act:  Provided further, That grantees shall commit to 
     an additional period of affordability determined by the 
     Secretary of not fewer than 20 years:  Provided further, That 
     grantees shall provide a match in State, local, other Federal 
     or private funds:  Provided further, That grantees may 
     include local governments, tribal entities, public housing 
     authorities, and nonprofits:  Provided further, That for-
     profit developers may apply jointly with a public entity:  
     Provided further, That for purposes of environmental review, 
     a grantee shall be treated as a public housing agency under 
     section 26 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 
     U.S.C. 1437x), and grants under this heading shall be subject 
     to the regulations issued by the Secretary to implement such 
     section:  Provided further, That of the amount provided, not 
     less than $10,000,000 shall be awarded to public housing 
     agencies:  Provided further, That such grantees shall create 
     partnerships with other local organizations including 
     assisted housing owners, service agencies, and resident 
     organizations:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall 
     consult with the Secretaries of Education, Labor, 
     Transportation, Health and Human Services, Agriculture, and 
     Commerce, the Attorney General, and the Administrator of the 
     Environmental Protection Agency to coordinate and leverage 
     other appropriate Federal resources:  Provided further, That 
     no more than $1,000,000 of funds made available under this 
     heading may be provided as grants to undertake comprehensive 
     local planning with input from residents and the community:  
     Provided further, That unobligated balances, including 
     recaptures, remaining from funds appropriated under the 
     heading ``Revitalization of Severely Distressed Public 
     Housing (HOPE VI)'' in fiscal year 2011 and prior fiscal 
     years may be used for purposes under this heading, 
     notwithstanding the purposes for which such amounts were 
     appropriated.

                        family self-sufficiency

       For the Family Self-Sufficiency program to support family 
     self-sufficiency coordinators under section 23 of the United 
     States Housing Act of 1937, to promote the development of 
     local strategies to coordinate the use of assistance under 
     sections 8(o) and 9 of such Act with public and private 
     resources, and enable eligible families to achieve economic 
     independence and self-sufficiency, $75,000,000, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2019:  Provided, That the 
     Secretary may, by Federal Register notice, waive or specify 
     alternative requirements under sections b(3), b(4), b(5), or 
     c(1) of section 23 of such Act in order to facilitate the 
     operation of a unified self-sufficiency program for 
     individuals receiving assistance under different provisions 
     of the Act, as determined by the Secretary:  Provided 
     further, That owners of a privately owned multifamily 
     property with a section 8 contract may voluntarily make a 
     Family Self-Sufficiency program available to the assisted 
     tenants of such property in accordance with procedures 
     established by the Secretary:  Provided further, That such 
     procedures established pursuant to the previous proviso shall 
     permit participating tenants to accrue escrow funds in 
     accordance with section 23(d)(2) and shall allow owners to 
     use funding from residual receipt accounts to hire 
     coordinators for their own Family Self-Sufficiency program.

                  native american housing block grants

       For the Native American Housing Block Grants program, as 
     authorized under title I of the Native American Housing 
     Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (NAHASDA) (25 
     U.S.C. 4111 et seq.), $654,000,000, to remain available until 
     September 30, 2022:  Provided, That, notwithstanding NAHASDA, 
     to determine the amount of the allocation under title I of 
     such Act for each Indian tribe, the Secretary shall apply the 
     formula under section 302 of such Act with the need component 
     based on single-race census data and with the need component 
     based on multi-race census data, and the amount of the 
     allocation for each Indian tribe shall be the greater of the 
     two resulting allocation amounts:  Provided further, That of 
     the amounts made available under this heading, $3,500,000 
     shall be contracted for assistance for national or regional 
     organizations representing Native American housing interests 
     for providing training and technical assistance to Indian 
     housing authorities and tribally designated housing entities 
     as authorized under NAHASDA:  Provided further, That of the 
     funds made available under the previous proviso, not less 
     than $2,000,000 shall be made available for a national 
     organization as authorized under section 703 of NAHASDA (25 
     U.S.C. 4212):  Provided further, That of the amounts made 
     available under this heading, $3,500,000 shall be to support 
     the inspection of Indian housing units, contract expertise, 
     training, and technical assistance related to funding 
     provided under this heading and other headings under this Act 
     for the needs of Native American families and Indian country: 
      Provided further, That of the amount provided under this 
     heading, $2,000,000 shall be made available for the cost of 
     guaranteed notes and other obligations, as authorized by 
     title VI of NAHASDA:  Provided further, That such costs, 
     including the costs of modifying such notes and other 
     obligations, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended:  Provided 
     further, That these funds are available to subsidize the 
     total principal amount of any notes and other obligations, 
     any part of which is to be guaranteed, not to exceed 
     $17,391,304:  Provided further, That the Department will 
     notify grantees of their formula allocation within 60 days of 
     the date of enactment of this Act:  Provided further, That 
     notwithstanding section 302(d) of NAHASDA, if on the date of 
     enactment of this Act, a recipient's total amount of 
     undisbursed block grant funds in the Department's line of 
     credit control system is greater than the sum of its prior 3 
     years' initial formula allocation calculations, the Secretary 
     shall adjust that recipient's formula allocation that it 
     would otherwise receive down by the difference between its 
     total amount of undisbursed block grant funds in the 
     Department's line of credit control system on the date of 
     enactment of this Act, and the sum of its prior 3 years' 
     initial formula allocation calculations:  Provided further, 
     That grant amounts not allocated to a recipient pursuant to 
     the previous proviso shall be allocated under the need 
     component of the formula proportionately among all other 
     Indian tribes not subject to an adjustment under such 
     proviso:  Provided further, That the second proviso shall not 
     apply to any Indian tribe that would otherwise receive a 
     formula allocation of less than $5,000,000:  Provided 
     further, That to take effect, the three previous provisos do 
     not require issuance or amendment of any regulation, shall 
     not be subject to a formula challenge by an Indian tribe, and 
     shall not be construed to confer hearing rights under any 
     section of NAHASDA or its implementing regulations.

           indian housing loan guarantee fund program account

       For the cost of guaranteed loans, as authorized by section 
     184 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 (12 
     U.S.C. 1715z-13a), $5,500,000, to remain available until 
     expended:  Provided, That such costs, including the costs of 
     modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of 
     the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  Provided further, That 
     these funds are available to subsidize total loan principal, 
     any part of which is to be guaranteed, up to $1,486,486,486, 
     to remain available until expended:  Provided further, That 
     up to $750,000 of this amount may be for administrative 
     contract expenses including management processes and systems 
     to carry out the loan guarantee program:  Provided further, 
     That an additional $1,727,000 shall be available until 
     expended for such costs of guaranteed loans authorized under 
     such section 184 issued to tribes and Indian housing 
     authorities for the construction of rental housing for law 
     enforcement, healthcare, educational, technical and other 
     skilled workers:  Provided further, That the funds specified 
     in the previous proviso are available to subsidize total loan 
     principal, any part of which is to be guaranteed, up to 
     $466,756,757 to remain available until expended:  Provided 
     further, That the Secretary may specify any additional 
     program requirements with respect to the previous two 
     provisos through publication of a Mortgagee Letter or Notice.
       

                   Community Planning and Development

              housing opportunities for persons with aids

       For carrying out the Housing Opportunities for Persons with 
     AIDS program, as authorized by the AIDS Housing Opportunity 
     Act (42 U.S.C. 12901 et seq.), $356,000,000, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2019, except that amounts 
     allocated pursuant to section 854(c)(5) of such Act shall 
     remain available until September 30, 2020:  Provided, That 
     the Secretary shall renew all expiring contracts for 
     permanent supportive housing that initially were funded under 
     section 854(c)(5) of such Act from funds made available under 
     this heading in fiscal year 2010 and prior fiscal years that 
     meet all program requirements before awarding funds for new 
     contracts under such section:  Provided further, That the 
     Department shall notify grantees of their formula allocation 
     within 60 days of enactment of this Act.

[[Page H6988]]

  


                       community development fund

       For assistance to units of State and local government, and 
     to other entities, for economic and community development 
     activities, and for other purposes, $2,960,000,000, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2020, unless otherwise 
     specified:  Provided, That of the total amount provided, 
     $2,900,000,000 is for carrying out the community development 
     block grant program under title I of the Housing and 
     Community Development Act of 1974, as amended (``the Act'' 
     herein) (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.):  Provided further, That 
     unless explicitly provided for under this heading, not to 
     exceed 20 percent of any grant made with funds appropriated 
     under this heading shall be expended for planning and 
     management development and administration:  Provided further, 
     That a metropolitan city, urban county, unit of general local 
     government, or Indian tribe, or insular area that directly or 
     indirectly receives funds under this heading may not sell, 
     trade, or otherwise transfer all or any portion of such funds 
     to another such entity in exchange for any other funds, 
     credits or non-Federal considerations, but must use such 
     funds for activities eligible under title I of the Act:  
     Provided further, That notwithstanding section 105(e)(1) of 
     the Act, no funds provided under this heading may be provided 
     to a for-profit entity for an economic development project 
     under section 105(a)(17) unless such project has been 
     evaluated and selected in accordance with guidelines required 
     under subparagraph (e)(2):  Provided further, That the 
     Department shall notify grantees of their formula allocation 
     within 60 days of enactment of this Act:  Provided further, 
     That of the total amount provided under this heading 
     $60,000,000 shall be for grants to Indian tribes 
     notwithstanding section 106(a)(1) of such Act, of which, 
     notwithstanding any other provision of law (including section 
     203 of this Act), up to $4,000,000 may be used for 
     emergencies that constitute imminent threats to health and 
     safety.

         community development loan guarantees program account

       Subject to section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
     1974, during fiscal year 2018, commitments to guarantee loans 
     under section 108 of the Housing and Community Development 
     Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5308), any part of which is 
     guaranteed, shall not exceed a total principal amount of 
     $300,000,000, notwithstanding any aggregate limitation on 
     outstanding obligations guaranteed in subsection (k) of such 
     section 108:  Provided, That the Secretary shall collect fees 
     from borrowers, notwithstanding subsection (m) of such 
     section 108, to result in a credit subsidy cost of zero for 
     guaranteeing such loans, and any such fees shall be collected 
     in accordance with section 502(7) of the Congressional Budget 
     Act of 1974.

                  home investment partnerships program

       For the HOME Investment Partnerships program, as authorized 
     under title II of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable 
     Housing Act, as amended, $850,000,000, to remain available 
     until September 30, 2021:  Provided, That notwithstanding the 
     amount made available under this heading, the threshold 
     reduction requirements in sections 216(10) and 217(b)(4) of 
     such Act shall not apply to allocations of such amount:  
     Provided further, That the requirements under provisos 2 
     through 6 under this heading for fiscal year 2012 and such 
     requirements applicable pursuant to the ``Full-Year 
     Continuing Appropriations Act, 2013'', shall not apply to any 
     project to which funds were committed on or after August 23, 
     2013, but such projects shall instead be governed by the 
     Final Rule titled ``Home Investment Partnerships Program; 
     Improving Performance and Accountability; Updating Property 
     Standards'' which became effective on such date:  Provided 
     further, That the Department shall notify grantees of their 
     formula allocation within 60 days of enactment of this Act.

        self-help and assisted homeownership opportunity program

       For the Self-Help and Assisted Homeownership Opportunity 
     Program, as authorized under section 11 of the Housing 
     Opportunity Program Extension Act of 1996, as amended, 
     $45,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020:  
     Provided, That of the total amount provided under this 
     heading, $10,000,000 shall be made available to the Self-Help 
     and Assisted Homeownership Opportunity Program as authorized 
     under section 11 of the Housing Opportunity Program Extension 
     Act of 1996, as amended:  Provided further, That of the total 
     amount provided under this heading, $30,000,000 shall be made 
     available for the second, third, and fourth capacity building 
     activities authorized under section 4(a) of the HUD 
     Demonstration Act of 1993 (42 U.S.C. 9816 note), of which not 
     less than $5,000,000 shall be made available for rural 
     capacity building activities:  Provided further, That of the 
     total amount provided under this heading, $5,000,000 shall be 
     made available for capacity building by national rural 
     housing organizations with experience assessing national 
     rural conditions and providing financing, training, technical 
     assistance, information, and research to local nonprofits, 
     local governments and Indian Tribes serving high need rural 
     communities.

                       homeless assistance grants

       For the Emergency Solutions Grants program as authorized 
     under subtitle B of title IV of the McKinney-Vento Homeless 
     Assistance Act, as amended; the Continuum of Care program as 
     authorized under subtitle C of title IV of such Act; and the 
     Rural Housing Stability Assistance program as authorized 
     under subtitle D of title IV of such Act, $2,383,000,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2020:  Provided, That 
     any rental assistance amounts that are recaptured under such 
     Continuum of Care program shall remain available until 
     expended:  Provided further, That not less than $270,000,000 
     of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be 
     available for such Emergency Solutions Grants program:  
     Provided further, That not less than $2,106,000,000 of the 
     funds appropriated under this heading shall be available for 
     such Continuum of Care and Rural Housing Stability Assistance 
     programs:  Provided further, That up to $7,000,000 of the 
     funds appropriated under this heading shall be available for 
     the national homeless data analysis project:  Provided 
     further, That all funds awarded for supportive services under 
     the Continuum of Care program and the Rural Housing Stability 
     Assistance program shall be matched by not less than 25 
     percent in cash or in kind by each grantee:  Provided 
     further, That for all match requirements applicable to funds 
     made available under this heading for this fiscal year and 
     prior years, a grantee may use (or could have used) as a 
     source of match funds other funds administered by the 
     Secretary and other Federal agencies unless there is (or was) 
     a specific statutory prohibition on any such use of any such 
     funds:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall collect 
     system performance measures for each continuum of care, and 
     that relative to fiscal year 2015, under the Continuum of 
     Care competition with respect to funds made available under 
     this heading, the Secretary shall base an increasing share of 
     the score on performance criteria:  Provided further, That 
     none of the funds provided under this heading shall be 
     available to provide funding for new projects, except for 
     projects created through reallocation, unless the Secretary 
     determines that the continuum of care has demonstrated that 
     projects are evaluated and ranked based on the degree to 
     which they improve the continuum of care's system 
     performance:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall 
     prioritize funding under the Continuum of Care program to 
     continuums of care that have demonstrated a capacity to 
     reallocate funding from lower performing projects to higher 
     performing projects:  Provided further, That all awards of 
     assistance under this heading shall be required to coordinate 
     and integrate homeless programs with other mainstream health, 
     social services, and employment programs for which homeless 
     populations may be eligible:  Provided further, That any 
     unobligated amounts remaining from funds appropriated under 
     this heading in fiscal year 2012 and prior years for project-
     based rental assistance for rehabilitation projects with 10-
     year grant terms may be used for purposes under this heading, 
     notwithstanding the purposes for which such funds were 
     appropriated:  Provided further, That all balances for 
     Shelter Plus Care renewals previously funded from the Shelter 
     Plus Care Renewal account and transferred to this account 
     shall be available, if recaptured, for Continuum of Care 
     renewals in fiscal year 2018:  Provided further, That the 
     Department shall notify grantees of their formula allocation 
     from amounts allocated (which may represent initial or final 
     amounts allocated) for the Emergency Solutions Grant program 
     within 60 days of enactment of this Act:  Provided further, 
     That youth aged 24 and under seeking assistance under this 
     heading shall not be required to provide third party 
     documentation to establish their eligibility under 42 U.S.C. 
     11302(a) or (b) to receive services:  Provided further, That 
     unaccompanied youth aged 24 and under or families headed by 
     youth aged 24 and under who are living in unsafe situations 
     may be served by youth-serving providers funded under this 
     heading.

                            Housing Programs

                    project-based rental assistance

       For activities and assistance for the provision of project-
     based subsidy contracts under the United States Housing Act 
     of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.) (``the Act''), not otherwise 
     provided for, $10,682,000,000, to remain available until 
     expended, shall be available on October 1, 2017 (in addition 
     to the $400,000,000 previously appropriated under this 
     heading that became available October 1, 2017), and 
     $400,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall be 
     available on October 1, 2018:  Provided, That the amounts 
     made available under this heading shall be available for 
     expiring or terminating section 8 project-based subsidy 
     contracts (including section 8 moderate rehabilitation 
     contracts), for amendments to section 8 project-based subsidy 
     contracts (including section 8 moderate rehabilitation 
     contracts), for contracts entered into pursuant to section 
     441 of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 
     11401), for renewal of section 8 contracts for units in 
     projects that are subject to approved plans of action under 
     the Emergency Low Income Housing Preservation Act of 1987 or 
     the Low-Income Housing Preservation and Resident 
     Homeownership Act of 1990, and for administrative and other 
     expenses associated with project-based activities and 
     assistance funded under this paragraph:  Provided further, 
     That amounts recaptured under this heading, the heading 
     ``Annual Contributions for Assisted Housing'', or the heading 
     ``Housing Certificate Fund'', may be used for renewals of or 
     amendments to section 8 project-based contracts, 
     notwithstanding the purposes for which such

[[Page H6989]]

     amounts were appropriated:  Provided further, That, 
     notwithstanding any other provision of law, upon the request 
     of the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, project 
     funds that are held in residual receipts accounts for any 
     project subject to a section 8 project-based Housing 
     Assistance Payments contract that authorizes HUD or a Housing 
     Finance Agency to require that surplus project funds be 
     deposited in an interest-bearing residual receipts account 
     and that are in excess of an amount to be determined by the 
     Secretary, shall be remitted to the Department and deposited 
     in this account, to be available until expended:  Provided 
     further, That amounts deposited pursuant to the previous 
     proviso shall be available in addition to the amount 
     otherwise provided by this heading for uses authorized under 
     this heading.

                        housing for the elderly

       For amendments to capital advance contracts, for housing 
     for the elderly, as authorized by section 202 of the Housing 
     Act of 1959, as amended, and for project rental assistance 
     for the elderly under section 202(c)(2) of such Act, 
     including amendments to contracts for such assistance and 
     renewal of expiring contracts for such assistance for up to a 
     1-year term, and for senior preservation rental assistance 
     contracts, including renewals, as authorized by section 
     811(e) of the American Housing and Economic Opportunity Act 
     of 2000, as amended, and for supportive services associated 
     with the housing, $573,000,000 to remain available until 
     September 30, 2021:  Provided, That of the amount provided 
     under this heading, up to $90,000,000 shall be for service 
     coordinators and the continuation of existing congregate 
     service grants for residents of assisted housing projects:  
     Provided further, That amounts under this heading shall be 
     available for Real Estate Assessment Center inspections and 
     inspection-related activities associated with section 202 
     projects:  Provided further, That the Secretary may waive the 
     provisions of section 202 governing the terms and conditions 
     of project rental assistance, except that the initial 
     contract term for such assistance shall not exceed 5 years in 
     duration:  Provided further, That upon request of the 
     Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, project funds 
     that are held in residual receipts accounts for any project 
     subject to a section 202 project rental assistance contract, 
     and that upon termination of such contract are in excess of 
     an amount to be determined by the Secretary, shall be 
     remitted to the Department and deposited in this account, to 
     be available until September 30, 2021:  Provided further, 
     That amounts deposited in this account pursuant to the 
     previous proviso shall be available, in addition to the 
     amounts otherwise provided by this heading, for amendments 
     and renewals:  Provided further, That unobligated balances, 
     including recaptures and carryover, remaining from funds 
     transferred to or appropriated under this heading shall be 
     available for amendments and renewals notwithstanding the 
     purposes for which such funds originally were appropriated.

                 housing for persons with disabilities

       For amendments to capital advance contracts for supportive 
     housing for persons with disabilities, as authorized by 
     section 811 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable 
     Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 8013), as amended, and for project 
     rental assistance for supportive housing for persons with 
     disabilities under section 811(d)(2) of such Act and for 
     project assistance contracts pursuant to section 202(h) of 
     the Housing Act of 1959 (Public Law 86-372; 73 Stat. 667), 
     including amendments to contracts for such assistance and 
     renewal of expiring contracts for such assistance for up to a 
     1-year term, for project rental assistance to State housing 
     finance agencies and other appropriate entities as authorized 
     under section 811(b)(3) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
     Housing Act, and for supportive services associated with the 
     housing for persons with disabilities as authorized by 
     section 811(b)(1) of such Act, $147,000,000, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2021:  Provided, That amounts 
     made available under this heading shall be available for Real 
     Estate Assessment Center inspections and inspection-related 
     activities associated with section 811 projects:  Provided 
     further, That, in this fiscal year, upon the request of the 
     Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, project funds 
     that are held in residual receipts accounts for any project 
     subject to a section 811 project rental assistance contract 
     and that upon termination of such contract are in excess of 
     an amount to be determined by the Secretary shall be remitted 
     to the Department and deposited in this account, to be 
     available until September 30, 2021:  Provided further, That 
     amounts deposited in this account pursuant to the previous 
     proviso shall be available in addition to the amounts 
     otherwise provided by this heading for amendments and 
     renewals:  Provided further, That unobligated balances, 
     including recaptures and carryover, remaining from funds 
     transferred to or appropriated under this heading shall be 
     used for amendments and renewals notwithstanding the purposes 
     for which such funds originally were appropriated.

                     housing counseling assistance

       For contracts, grants, and other assistance excluding 
     loans, as authorized under section 106 of the Housing and 
     Urban Development Act of 1968, as amended, $50,000,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2019, including up to 
     $4,500,000 for administrative contract services:  Provided, 
     That grants made available from amounts provided under this 
     heading shall be awarded within 180 days of enactment of this 
     Act:  Provided further, That funds shall be used for 
     providing counseling and advice to tenants and homeowners, 
     both current and prospective, with respect to property 
     maintenance, financial management/literacy, and such other 
     matters as may be appropriate to assist them in improving 
     their housing conditions, meeting their financial needs, and 
     fulfilling the responsibilities of tenancy or homeownership; 
     for program administration; and for housing counselor 
     training:  Provided further, That for purposes of providing 
     such grants from amounts provided under this heading, the 
     Secretary may enter into multiyear agreements as appropriate, 
     subject to the availability of annual appropriations.

                       rental housing assistance

       For amendments to contracts under section 101 of the 
     Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965 (12 U.S.C. 1701s) 
     and section 236(f)(2) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 
     1715z-1) in State-aided, noninsured rental housing projects, 
     $14,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
     That such amount, together with unobligated balances from 
     recaptured amounts appropriated prior to fiscal year 2006 
     from terminated contracts under such sections of law, and any 
     unobligated balances, including recaptures and carryover, 
     remaining from funds appropriated under this heading after 
     fiscal year 2005, shall also be available for extensions of 
     up to one year for expiring contracts under such sections of 
     law.

            payment to manufactured housing fees trust fund

       For necessary expenses as authorized by the National 
     Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 
     1974 (42 U.S.C. 5401 et seq.), up to $11,000,000, to remain 
     available until expended, of which $11,000,000 is to be 
     derived from the Manufactured Housing Fees Trust Fund:  
     Provided, That not to exceed the total amount appropriated 
     under this heading shall be available from the general fund 
     of the Treasury to the extent necessary to incur obligations 
     and make expenditures pending the receipt of collections to 
     the Fund pursuant to section 620 of such Act:  Provided 
     further, That the amount made available under this heading 
     from the general fund shall be reduced as such collections 
     are received during fiscal year 2018 so as to result in a 
     final fiscal year 2018 appropriation from the general fund 
     estimated at zero, and fees pursuant to such section 620 
     shall be modified as necessary to ensure such a final fiscal 
     year 2018 appropriation:  Provided further, That for the 
     dispute resolution and installation programs, the Secretary 
     of Housing and Urban Development may assess and collect fees 
     from any program participant:  Provided further, That such 
     collections shall be deposited into the Fund, and the 
     Secretary, as provided herein, may use such collections, as 
     well as fees collected under section 620, for necessary 
     expenses of such Act:  Provided further, That, 
     notwithstanding the requirements of section 620 of such Act, 
     the Secretary may carry out responsibilities of the Secretary 
     under such Act through the use of approved service providers 
     that are paid directly by the recipients of their services.

                     Federal Housing Administration

               mutual mortgage insurance program account

       New commitments to guarantee single family loans insured 
     under the Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund shall not exceed 
     $400,000,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2019:  Provided, That during fiscal year 2018, obligations to 
     make direct loans to carry out the purposes of section 204(g) 
     of the National Housing Act, as amended, shall not exceed 
     $5,000,000:  Provided further, That the foregoing amount in 
     the previous proviso shall be for loans to nonprofit and 
     governmental entities in connection with sales of single 
     family real properties owned by the Secretary and formerly 
     insured under the Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund:  Provided 
     further, That for administrative contract expenses of the 
     Federal Housing Administration, $135,000,000, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2019:  Provided further, That 
     to the extent guaranteed loan commitments exceed 
     $200,000,000,000 on or before April 1, 2018, an additional 
     $1,400 for administrative contract expenses shall be 
     available for each $1,000,000 in additional guaranteed loan 
     commitments (including a pro rata amount for any amount below 
     $1,000,000), but in no case shall funds made available by 
     this proviso exceed $30,000,000:  Provided further, That 
     during fiscal year 2018 the Secretary may insure and enter 
     into new commitments to insure mortgages under section 255 of 
     the National Housing Act only to the extent that the net 
     credit subsidy cost for such insurance does not exceed zero.

                general and special risk program account

       New commitments to guarantee loans insured under the 
     General and Special Risk Insurance Funds, as authorized by 
     sections 238 and 519 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 
     1715z-3 and 1735c), shall not exceed $30,000,000,000 in total 
     loan principal, any part of which is to be guaranteed, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2019:  Provided, That 
     during fiscal year 2018, gross obligations for the principal 
     amount of direct loans, as authorized by sections 204(g), 
     207(l), 238, and 519(a) of the National Housing Act, shall 
     not exceed $5,000,000, which shall be for

[[Page H6990]]

     loans to nonprofit and governmental entities in connection 
     with the sale of single family real properties owned by the 
     Secretary and formerly insured under such Act.

                Government National Mortgage Association

guarantees of mortgage-backed securities loan guarantee program account

       New commitments to issue guarantees to carry out the 
     purposes of section 306 of the National Housing Act, as 
     amended (12 U.S.C. 1721(g)), shall not exceed 
     $500,000,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2019:  Provided, That $25,400,000 shall be available for 
     necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Government 
     National Mortgage Association:  Provided further, That to the 
     extent that guaranteed loan commitments exceed 
     $155,000,000,000 on or before April 1, 2018, an additional 
     $100 for necessary salaries and expenses shall be available 
     until expended for each $1,000,000 in additional guaranteed 
     loan commitments (including a pro rata amount for any amount 
     below $1,000,000), but in no case shall funds made available 
     by this proviso exceed $3,000,000:  Provided further, That 
     receipts from Commitment and Multiclass fees collected 
     pursuant to title III of the National Housing Act, as 
     amended, shall be credited as offsetting collections to this 
     account.

                    Policy Development and Research

                        research and technology

       For contracts, grants, and necessary expenses of programs 
     of research and studies relating to housing and urban 
     problems, not otherwise provided for, as authorized by title 
     V of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1970 (12 U.S.C. 
     1701z-1 et seq.), including carrying out the functions of the 
     Secretary of Housing and Urban Development under section 
     1(a)(1)(i) of Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1968, and for 
     technical assistance, $85,000,000, to remain available until 
     September 30, 2019:  Provided, That with respect to amounts 
     made available under this heading, notwithstanding section 
     203 of this title, the Secretary may enter into cooperative 
     agreements funded with philanthropic entities, other Federal 
     agencies, or State or local governments and their agencies 
     for research projects:  Provided further, That with respect 
     to the previous proviso, such partners to the cooperative 
     agreements must contribute at least a 50 percent match toward 
     the cost of the project:  Provided further, That for non-
     competitive agreements entered into in accordance with the 
     previous two provisos, the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
     Development shall comply with section 2(b) of the Federal 
     Funding Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006 (Public 
     Law 109-282, 31 U.S.C. note) in lieu of compliance with 
     section 102(a)(4)(C) with respect to documentation of award 
     decisions:  Provided further, That prior to obligation of 
     technical assistance funding, the Secretary shall submit a 
     plan, for approval, to the House and Senate Committees on 
     Appropriations on how it will allocate funding for this 
     activity.

                   Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity

                        fair housing activities

       For contracts, grants, and other assistance, not otherwise 
     provided for, as authorized by title VIII of the Civil Rights 
     Act of 1968, as amended by the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 
     1988, and section 561 of the Housing and Community 
     Development Act of 1987, as amended, $65,300,000, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2019:  Provided, That 
     notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, the Secretary may assess and 
     collect fees to cover the costs of the Fair Housing Training 
     Academy, and may use such funds to provide such training:  
     Provided further, That no funds made available under this 
     heading shall be used to lobby the executive or legislative 
     branches of the Federal Government in connection with a 
     specific contract, grant, or loan:  Provided further, That of 
     the funds made available under this heading, $300,000 shall 
     be available to the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
     Development for the creation and promotion of translated 
     materials and other programs that support the assistance of 
     persons with limited English proficiency in utilizing the 
     services provided by the Department of Housing and Urban 
     Development.

            Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes

                         lead hazard reduction

       For the Lead Hazard Reduction Program, as authorized by 
     section 1011 of the Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard 
     Reduction Act of 1992, $130,000,000, to remain available 
     until September 30, 2019, of which $25,000,000 shall be for 
     the Healthy Homes Initiative, pursuant to sections 501 and 
     502 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1970, that 
     shall include research, studies, testing, and demonstration 
     efforts, including education and outreach concerning lead-
     based paint poisoning and other housing-related diseases and 
     hazards:  Provided, That for purposes of environmental 
     review, pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act of 
     1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) and other provisions of the law 
     that further the purposes of such Act, a grant under the 
     Healthy Homes Initiative, or the Lead Technical Studies 
     program under this heading or under prior appropriations Acts 
     for such purposes under this heading, shall be considered to 
     be funds for a special project for purposes of section 305(c) 
     of the Multifamily Housing Property Disposition Reform Act of 
     1994:  Provided further, That of the total amount made 
     available under this heading, $50,000,000 shall be made 
     available on a competitive basis for areas with the highest 
     lead-based paint abatement needs:  Provided further, That 
     each recipient of funds provided under the previous proviso 
     shall contribute an amount not less than 25 percent of the 
     total:  Provided further, That each applicant shall certify 
     adequate capacity that is acceptable to the Secretary to 
     carry out the proposed use of funds pursuant to a notice of 
     funding availability:  Provided further, That amounts made 
     available under this heading in this or prior appropriations 
     Acts, and that still remain available, may be used for any 
     purpose under this heading notwithstanding the purpose for 
     which such amounts were appropriated if a program competition 
     is undersubscribed and there are other program competitions 
     under this heading that are oversubscribed.

                      Information Technology Fund

       For the development of, modifications to, and 
     infrastructure for Department-wide and program-specific 
     information technology systems, for the continuing operation 
     and maintenance of both Department-wide and program-specific 
     information systems, and for program-related maintenance 
     activities, $150,000,000 shall remain available until 
     September 30, 2019:  Provided, That any amounts transferred 
     to this Fund under this Act shall remain available until 
     expended:  Provided further, That any amounts transferred to 
     this Fund from amounts appropriated by previously enacted 
     appropriations Acts may be used for the purposes specified 
     under this Fund, in addition to any other information 
     technology purposes for which such amounts were appropriated.

                      Office of Inspector General

       For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of 
     Inspector General in carrying out the Inspector General Act 
     of 1978, as amended, $128,082,000:  Provided, That the 
     Inspector General shall have independent authority over all 
     personnel issues within this office.

    General Provisions--Department of Housing and Urban Development

                     (including transfer of funds)

                         (including rescission)

       Sec. 201.  Fifty percent of the amounts of budget 
     authority, or in lieu thereof 50 percent of the cash amounts 
     associated with such budget authority, that are recaptured 
     from projects described in section 1012(a) of the Stewart B. 
     McKinney Homeless Assistance Amendments Act of 1988 (42 
     U.S.C. 1437f note) shall be rescinded or in the case of cash, 
     shall be remitted to the Treasury, and such amounts of budget 
     authority or cash recaptured and not rescinded or remitted to 
     the Treasury shall be used by State housing finance agencies 
     or local governments or local housing agencies with projects 
     approved by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
     for which settlement occurred after January 1, 1992, in 
     accordance with such section. Notwithstanding the previous 
     sentence, the Secretary may award up to 15 percent of the 
     budget authority or cash recaptured and not rescinded or 
     remitted to the Treasury to provide project owners with 
     incentives to refinance their project at a lower interest 
     rate.
       Sec. 202.  None of the amounts made available under this 
     Act may be used during fiscal year 2018 to investigate or 
     prosecute under the Fair Housing Act any otherwise lawful 
     activity engaged in by one or more persons, including the 
     filing or maintaining of a nonfrivolous legal action, that is 
     engaged in solely for the purpose of achieving or preventing 
     action by a Government official or entity, or a court of 
     competent jurisdiction.
       Sec. 203.  Except as explicitly provided in law, any grant, 
     cooperative agreement or other assistance made pursuant to 
     title II of this Act shall be made on a competitive basis and 
     in accordance with section 102 of the Department of Housing 
     and Urban Development Reform Act of 1989 (42 U.S.C. 3545).
       Sec. 204.  Funds of the Department of Housing and Urban 
     Development subject to the Government Corporation Control Act 
     or section 402 of the Housing Act of 1950 shall be available, 
     without regard to the limitations on administrative expenses, 
     for legal services on a contract or fee basis, and for 
     utilizing and making payment for services and facilities of 
     the Federal National Mortgage Association, Government 
     National Mortgage Association, Federal Home Loan Mortgage 
     Corporation, Federal Financing Bank, Federal Reserve banks or 
     any member thereof, Federal Home Loan banks, and any insured 
     bank within the meaning of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
     Corporation Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1811-1).
       Sec. 205.  Unless otherwise provided for in this Act or 
     through a reprogramming of funds, no part of any 
     appropriation for the Department of Housing and Urban 
     Development shall be available for any program, project or 
     activity in excess of amounts set forth in the budget 
     estimates submitted to Congress.
       Sec. 206.  Corporations and agencies of the Department of 
     Housing and Urban Development which are subject to the 
     Government Corporation Control Act are hereby authorized to 
     make such expenditures, within the limits of funds and 
     borrowing authority available to each such corporation or 
     agency and in accordance with law, and to make such contracts 
     and commitments without regard to fiscal year limitations as 
     provided by section 104 of such Act as may be necessary in 
     carrying out the programs set forth in the budget for 2018 
     for such corporation or agency except as hereinafter 
     provided:  Provided,

[[Page H6991]]

     That collections of these corporations and agencies may be 
     used for new loan or mortgage purchase commitments only to 
     the extent expressly provided for in this Act (unless such 
     loans are in support of other forms of assistance provided 
     for in this or prior appropriations Acts), except that this 
     proviso shall not apply to the mortgage insurance or guaranty 
     operations of these corporations, or where loans or mortgage 
     purchases are necessary to protect the financial interest of 
     the United States Government.
       Sec. 207.  The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
     shall provide quarterly reports to the House and Senate 
     Committees on Appropriations regarding all uncommitted, 
     unobligated, recaptured and excess funds in each program and 
     activity within the jurisdiction of the Department and shall 
     submit additional, updated budget information to these 
     Committees upon request.
       Sec. 208.  The President's formal budget request for fiscal 
     year 2019, as well as the Department of Housing and Urban 
     Development's congressional budget justifications to be 
     submitted to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate, shall use the identical 
     account and sub-account structure provided under this Act.
       Sec. 209.  No funds provided under this title may be used 
     for an audit of the Government National Mortgage Association 
     that makes applicable requirements under the Federal Credit 
     Reform Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661 et seq.).
       Sec. 210. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     subject to the conditions listed under this section, for 
     fiscal years 2018 and 2019, the Secretary of Housing and 
     Urban Development may authorize the transfer of some or all 
     project-based assistance, debt held or insured by the 
     Secretary and statutorily required low-income and very low-
     income use restrictions if any, associated with one or more 
     multifamily housing project or projects to another 
     multifamily housing project or projects.
       (b) Phased Transfers.--Transfers of project-based 
     assistance under this section may be done in phases to 
     accommodate the financing and other requirements related to 
     rehabilitating or constructing the project or projects to 
     which the assistance is transferred, to ensure that such 
     project or projects meet the standards under subsection (c).
       (c) The transfer authorized in subsection (a) is subject to 
     the following conditions:
       (1) Number and bedroom size of units.--
       (A) For occupied units in the transferring project: The 
     number of low-income and very low-income units and the 
     configuration (i.e., bedroom size) provided by the 
     transferring project shall be no less than when transferred 
     to the receiving project or projects and the net dollar 
     amount of Federal assistance provided to the transferring 
     project shall remain the same in the receiving project or 
     projects.
       (B) For unoccupied units in the transferring project: The 
     Secretary may authorize a reduction in the number of dwelling 
     units in the receiving project or projects to allow for a 
     reconfiguration of bedroom sizes to meet current market 
     demands, as determined by the Secretary and provided there is 
     no increase in the project-based assistance budget authority.
       (2) The transferring project shall, as determined by the 
     Secretary, be either physically obsolete or economically 
     nonviable.
       (3) The receiving project or projects shall meet or exceed 
     applicable physical standards established by the Secretary.
       (4) The owner or mortgagor of the transferring project 
     shall notify and consult with the tenants residing in the 
     transferring project and provide a certification of approval 
     by all appropriate local governmental officials.
       (5) The tenants of the transferring project who remain 
     eligible for assistance to be provided by the receiving 
     project or projects shall not be required to vacate their 
     units in the transferring project or projects until new units 
     in the receiving project are available for occupancy.
       (6) The Secretary determines that this transfer is in the 
     best interest of the tenants.
       (7) If either the transferring project or the receiving 
     project or projects meets the condition specified in 
     subsection (d)(2)(A), any lien on the receiving project 
     resulting from additional financing obtained by the owner 
     shall be subordinate to any FHA-insured mortgage lien 
     transferred to, or placed on, such project by the Secretary, 
     except that the Secretary may waive this requirement upon 
     determination that such a waiver is necessary to facilitate 
     the financing of acquisition, construction, and/or 
     rehabilitation of the receiving project or projects.
       (8) If the transferring project meets the requirements of 
     subsection (d)(2), the owner or mortgagor of the receiving 
     project or projects shall execute and record either a 
     continuation of the existing use agreement or a new use 
     agreement for the project where, in either case, any use 
     restrictions in such agreement are of no lesser duration than 
     the existing use restrictions.
       (9) The transfer does not increase the cost (as defined in 
     section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as 
     amended) of any FHA-insured mortgage, except to the extent 
     that appropriations are provided in advance for the amount of 
     any such increased cost.
       (d) For purposes of this section--
       (1) the terms ``low-income'' and ``very low-income'' shall 
     have the meanings provided by the statute and/or regulations 
     governing the program under which the project is insured or 
     assisted;
       (2) the term ``multifamily housing project'' means housing 
     that meets one of the following conditions--
       (A) housing that is subject to a mortgage insured under the 
     National Housing Act;
       (B) housing that has project-based assistance attached to 
     the structure including projects undergoing mark to market 
     debt restructuring under the Multifamily Assisted Housing 
     Reform and Affordability Housing Act;
       (C) housing that is assisted under section 202 of the 
     Housing Act of 1959, as amended by section 801 of the 
     Cranston-Gonzales National Affordable Housing Act;
       (D) housing that is assisted under section 202 of the 
     Housing Act of 1959, as such section existed before the 
     enactment of the Cranston-Gonzales National Affordable 
     Housing Act;
       (E) housing that is assisted under section 811 of the 
     Cranston-Gonzales National Affordable Housing Act; or
       (F) housing or vacant land that is subject to a use 
     agreement;
       (3) the term ``project-based assistance'' means--
       (A) assistance provided under section 8(b) of the United 
     States Housing Act of 1937;
       (B) assistance for housing constructed or substantially 
     rehabilitated pursuant to assistance provided under section 
     8(b)(2) of such Act (as such section existed immediately 
     before October 1, 1983);
       (C) rent supplement payments under section 101 of the 
     Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965;
       (D) interest reduction payments under section 236 and/or 
     additional assistance payments under section 236(f)(2) of the 
     National Housing Act;
       (E) assistance payments made under section 202(c)(2) of the 
     Housing Act of 1959; and
       (F) assistance payments made under section 811(d)(2) of the 
     Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act;
       (4) the term ``receiving project or projects'' means the 
     multifamily housing project or projects to which some or all 
     of the project-based assistance, debt, and statutorily 
     required low-income and very low-income use restrictions are 
     to be transferred;
       (5) the term ``transferring project'' means the multifamily 
     housing project which is transferring some or all of the 
     project-based assistance, debt, and the statutorily required 
     low-income and very low-income use restrictions to the 
     receiving project or projects; and
       (6) the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of Housing 
     and Urban Development.
       (e) Research Report.--The Secretary shall conduct an 
     evaluation of the transfer authority under this section, 
     including the effect of such transfers on the operational 
     efficiency, contract rents, physical and financial 
     conditions, and long-term preservation of the affected 
     properties.
       Sec. 211. (a) No assistance shall be provided under section 
     8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f) 
     to any individual who--
       (1) is enrolled as a student at an institution of higher 
     education (as defined under section 102 of the Higher 
     Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002));
       (2) is under 24 years of age;
       (3) is not a veteran;
       (4) is unmarried;
       (5) does not have a dependent child;
       (6) is not a person with disabilities, as such term is 
     defined in section 3(b)(3)(E) of the United States Housing 
     Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)(3)(E)) and was not receiving 
     assistance under such section 8 as of November 30, 2005;
       (7) is not a youth who left foster care at age 14 or older 
     and is at risk of becoming homeless; and
       (8) is not otherwise individually eligible, or has parents 
     who, individually or jointly, are not eligible, to receive 
     assistance under section 8 of the United States Housing Act 
     of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f).
       (b) For purposes of determining the eligibility of a person 
     to receive assistance under section 8 of the United States 
     Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f), any financial 
     assistance (in excess of amounts received for tuition and any 
     other required fees and charges) that an individual receives 
     under the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001 et 
     seq.), from private sources, or an institution of higher 
     education (as defined under the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     (20 U.S.C. 1002)), shall be considered income to that 
     individual, except for a person over the age of 23 with 
     dependent children.
       Sec. 212.  The funds made available for Native Alaskans 
     under the heading ``Native American Housing Block Grants'' in 
     title II of this Act shall be allocated to the same Native 
     Alaskan housing block grant recipients that received funds in 
     fiscal year 2005.
       Sec. 213.  Notwithstanding the limitation in the first 
     sentence of section 255(g) of the National Housing Act (12 
     U.S.C. 1715z-20(g)), the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
     Development may, until September 30, 2018, insure and enter 
     into commitments to insure mortgages under such section 255.
       Sec. 214.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in 
     fiscal year 2018, in managing and disposing of any 
     multifamily property that is owned or has a mortgage held by 
     the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, and during 
     the process of foreclosure on any property with a contract 
     for rental assistance payments under section 8 of the United 
     States Housing Act of 1937 or other Federal programs, the 
     Secretary shall maintain any rental assistance payments under

[[Page H6992]]

     section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 and other 
     programs that are attached to any dwelling units in the 
     property. To the extent the Secretary determines, in 
     consultation with the tenants and the local government, that 
     such a multifamily property owned or held by the Secretary is 
     not feasible for continued rental assistance payments under 
     such section 8 or other programs, based on consideration of 
     (1) the costs of rehabilitating and operating the property 
     and all available Federal, State, and local resources, 
     including rent adjustments under section 524 of the 
     Multifamily Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability Act of 
     1997 (``MAHRAA'') and (2) environmental conditions that 
     cannot be remedied in a cost-effective fashion, the Secretary 
     may, in consultation with the tenants of that property, 
     contract for project-based rental assistance payments with an 
     owner or owners of other existing housing properties, or 
     provide other rental assistance. The Secretary shall also 
     take appropriate steps to ensure that project-based contracts 
     remain in effect prior to foreclosure, subject to the 
     exercise of contractual abatement remedies to assist 
     relocation of tenants for imminent major threats to health 
     and safety after written notice to and informed consent of 
     the affected tenants and use of other available remedies, 
     such as partial abatements or receivership. After disposition 
     of any multifamily property described under this section, the 
     contract and allowable rent levels on such properties shall 
     be subject to the requirements under section 524 of MAHRAA.
       Sec. 215.  The commitment authority funded by fees as 
     provided under the heading ``Community Development Loan 
     Guarantees Program Account'' may be used to guarantee, or 
     make commitments to guarantee, notes, or other obligations 
     issued by any State on behalf of non-entitlement communities 
     in the State in accordance with the requirements of section 
     108 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974:  
     Provided, That any State receiving such a guarantee or 
     commitment shall distribute all funds subject to such 
     guarantee to the units of general local government in non-
     entitlement areas that received the commitment.
       Sec. 216.  Public housing agencies that own and operate 400 
     or fewer public housing units may elect to be exempt from any 
     asset management requirement imposed by the Secretary of 
     Housing and Urban Development in connection with the 
     operating fund rule:  Provided, That an agency seeking a 
     discontinuance of a reduction of subsidy under the operating 
     fund formula shall not be exempt from asset management 
     requirements.
       Sec. 217.  With respect to the use of amounts provided in 
     this Act and in future Acts for the operation, capital 
     improvement and management of public housing as authorized by 
     sections 9(d) and 9(e) of the United States Housing Act of 
     1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g(d) and (e)), the Secretary shall not 
     impose any requirement or guideline relating to asset 
     management that restricts or limits in any way the use of 
     capital funds for central office costs pursuant to section 
     9(g)(1) or 9(g)(2) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 
     (42 U.S.C. 1437g(g)(1), (2)):  Provided, That a public 
     housing agency may not use capital funds authorized under 
     section 9(d) for activities that are eligible under section 
     9(e) for assistance with amounts from the operating fund in 
     excess of the amounts permitted under section 9(g)(1) or 
     9(g)(2).
       Sec. 218.  No official or employee of the Department of 
     Housing and Urban Development shall be designated as an 
     allotment holder unless the Office of the Chief Financial 
     Officer has determined that such allotment holder has 
     implemented an adequate system of funds control and has 
     received training in funds control procedures and directives. 
     The Chief Financial Officer shall ensure that there is a 
     trained allotment holder for each HUD sub-office under the 
     accounts ``Executive Offices'' and ``Administrative Support 
     Offices,'' as well as each account receiving appropriations 
     for ``Program Office Salaries and Expenses'', ``Government 
     National Mortgage Association--Guarantees of Mortgage-Backed 
     Securities Loan Guarantee Program Account'', and ``Office of 
     Inspector General'' within the Department of Housing and 
     Urban Development.
       Sec. 219.  The Secretary of the Department of Housing and 
     Urban Development shall, for fiscal year 2018, notify the 
     public through the Federal Register and other means, as 
     determined appropriate, of the issuance of a notice of the 
     availability of assistance or notice of funding availability 
     (NOFA) for any program or discretionary fund administered by 
     the Secretary that is to be competitively awarded. 
     Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for fiscal year 
     2018, the Secretary may make the NOFA available only on the 
     Internet at the appropriate Government web site or through 
     other electronic media, as determined by the Secretary.
       Sec. 220.  Payment of attorney fees in program-related 
     litigation shall be paid from the individual program office 
     and Office of General Counsel salaries and expenses 
     appropriations. The annual budget submission for the program 
     offices and the Office of General Counsel shall include any 
     such projected litigation costs for attorney fees as a 
     separate line item request. No funds provided in this title 
     may be used to pay any such litigation costs for attorney 
     fees until the Department submits for review a spending plan 
     for such costs to the House and Senate Committees on 
     Appropriations.
       Sec. 221.  The Secretary is authorized to transfer up to 10 
     percent or $4,000,000, whichever is less, of funds 
     appropriated for any office under the heading 
     ``Administrative Support Offices'' or for any account under 
     the general heading ``Program Office Salaries and Expenses'' 
     to any other such office or account:  Provided, That no 
     appropriation for any such office or account shall be 
     increased or decreased by more than 10 percent or $4,000,000, 
     whichever is less, without prior written approval of the 
     House and Senate Committees on Appropriations:  Provided 
     further, That the Secretary shall provide notification to 
     such Committees three business days in advance of any such 
     transfers under this section up to 10 percent or $4,000,000, 
     whichever is less.
       Sec. 222. (a) Any entity receiving housing assistance 
     payments shall maintain decent, safe, and sanitary 
     conditions, as determined by the Secretary of Housing and 
     Urban Development (in this section referred to as the 
     ``Secretary''), and comply with any standards under 
     applicable State or local laws, rules, ordinances, or 
     regulations relating to the physical condition of any 
     property covered under a housing assistance payment contract.
       (b) The Secretary shall take action under subsection (c) 
     when a multifamily housing project with a section 8 contract 
     or contract for similar project-based assistance--
       (1) receives a Uniform Physical Condition Standards (UPCS) 
     score of 60 or less; or
       (2) fails to certify in writing to the Secretary within 3 
     days that all Exigent Health and Safety deficiencies 
     identified by the inspector at the project have been 
     corrected.
     Such requirements shall apply to insured and noninsured 
     projects with assistance attached to the units under section 
     8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f), 
     but do not apply to such units assisted under section 
     8(o)(13) (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)(13)) or to public housing units 
     assisted with capital or operating funds under section 9 of 
     the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g).
       (c)(1) Within 15 days of the issuance of the REAC 
     inspection, the Secretary must provide the owner with a 
     Notice of Default with a specified timetable, determined by 
     the Secretary, for correcting all deficiencies. The Secretary 
     must also provide a copy of the Notice of Default to the 
     tenants, the local government, any mortgagees, and any 
     contract administrator. If the owner's appeal results in a 
     UPCS score of 60 or above, the Secretary may withdraw the 
     Notice of Default.
       (2) At the end of the time period for correcting all 
     deficiencies specified in the Notice of Default, if the owner 
     fails to fully correct such deficiencies, the Secretary may--
       (A) require immediate replacement of project management 
     with a management agent approved by the Secretary;
       (B) impose civil money penalties, which shall be used 
     solely for the purpose of supporting safe and sanitary 
     conditions at applicable properties, as designated by the 
     Secretary, with priority given to the tenants of the property 
     affected by the penalty;
       (C) abate the section 8 contract, including partial 
     abatement, as determined by the Secretary, until all 
     deficiencies have been corrected;
       (D) pursue transfer of the project to an owner, approved by 
     the Secretary under established procedures, which will be 
     obligated to promptly make all required repairs and to accept 
     renewal of the assistance contract as long as such renewal is 
     offered;
       (E) transfer the existing section 8 contract to another 
     project or projects and owner or owners;
       (F) pursue exclusionary sanctions, including suspensions or 
     debarments from Federal programs;
       (G) seek judicial appointment of a receiver to manage the 
     property and cure all project deficiencies or seek a judicial 
     order of specific performance requiring the owner to cure all 
     project deficiencies;
       (H) work with the owner, lender, or other related party to 
     stabilize the property in an attempt to preserve the property 
     through compliance, transfer of ownership, or an infusion of 
     capital provided by a third-party that requires time to 
     effectuate; or
       (I) take any other regulatory or contractual remedies 
     available as deemed necessary and appropriate by the 
     Secretary.
       (d) The Secretary shall also take appropriate steps to 
     ensure that project-based contracts remain in effect, subject 
     to the exercise of contractual abatement remedies to assist 
     relocation of tenants for major threats to health and safety 
     after written notice to the affected tenants. To the extent 
     the Secretary determines, in consultation with the tenants 
     and the local government, that the property is not feasible 
     for continued rental assistance payments under such section 8 
     or other programs, based on consideration of--
       (1) the costs of rehabilitating and operating the property 
     and all available Federal, State, and local resources, 
     including rent adjustments under section 524 of the 
     Multifamily Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability Act of 
     1997 (``MAHRAA''); and
       (2) environmental conditions that cannot be remedied in a 
     cost-effective fashion, the Secretary may contract for 
     project-based rental assistance payments with an owner or 
     owners of other existing housing properties, or provide other 
     rental assistance.
       (e) The Secretary shall report quarterly on all properties 
     covered by this section that are assessed through the Real 
     Estate Assessment Center and have UPCS physical inspection 
     scores of less than 60 or have received an unsatisfactory 
     management and occupancy review within the past 36 months. 
     The report shall include--

[[Page H6993]]

       (1) the enforcement actions being taken to address such 
     conditions, including imposition of civil money penalties and 
     termination of subsidies, and identify properties that have 
     such conditions multiple times;
       (2) actions that the Department of Housing and Urban 
     Development is taking to protect tenants of such identified 
     properties; and
       (3) any administrative or legislative recommendations to 
     further improve the living conditions at properties covered 
     under a housing assistance payment contract.
       Sec. 223.  None of the funds made available by this Act, or 
     any other Act, for purposes authorized under section 8 (only 
     with respect to the tenant-based rental assistance program) 
     and section 9 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 
     U.S.C. 1437 et seq.), may be used by any public housing 
     agency for any amount of salary, including bonuses, for the 
     chief executive officer of which, or any other official or 
     employee of which, that exceeds the annual rate of basic pay 
     payable for a position at level IV of the Executive Schedule 
     at any time during any public housing agency fiscal year 
     2018.
       Sec. 224.  None of the funds in this Act may be available 
     for the doctoral dissertation research grant program at the 
     Department of Housing and Urban Development.
       Sec. 225.  Section 24 of the United States Housing Act of 
     1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437v) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (m)(1), by striking ``fiscal year'' and 
     all that follows through the period at the end and inserting 
     ``fiscal year 2018.''; and
       (2) in subsection (o), by striking ``September'' and all 
     that follows through the period at the end and inserting 
     ``September 30, 2018.''.
       Sec. 226.  None of the funds in this Act provided to the 
     Department of Housing and Urban Development may be used to 
     make a grant award unless the Secretary notifies the House 
     and Senate Committees on Appropriations not less than 3 full 
     business days before any project, State, locality, housing 
     authority, tribe, nonprofit organization, or other entity 
     selected to receive a grant award is announced by the 
     Department or its offices.
       Sec. 227.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to require or enforce the Physical Needs Assessment 
     (PNA).
       Sec. 228.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
     shall be used by the Federal Housing Administration, the 
     Government National Mortgage Administration, or the 
     Department of Housing and Urban Development to insure, 
     securitize, or establish a Federal guarantee of any mortgage 
     or mortgage backed security that refinances or otherwise 
     replaces a mortgage that has been subject to eminent domain 
     condemnation or seizure, by a State, municipality, or any 
     other political subdivision of a State.
       Sec. 229.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to terminate the status of a unit of general local 
     government as a metropolitan city (as defined in section 102 
     of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 
     U.S.C. 5302)) with respect to grants under section 106 of 
     such Act (42 U.S.C. 5306).
       Sec. 230.  Amounts made available under this Act which are 
     either appropriated, allocated, advanced on a reimbursable 
     basis, or transferred to the Office of Policy Development and 
     Research in the Department of Housing and Urban Development 
     and functions thereof, for research, evaluation, or 
     statistical purposes, and which are unexpended at the time of 
     completion of a contract, grant, or cooperative agreement, 
     may be deobligated and shall immediately become available and 
     may be reobligated in that fiscal year or the subsequent 
     fiscal year for the research, evaluation, or statistical 
     purposes for which the amounts are made available to that 
     Office subject to reprogramming requirements in section 405 
     of this Act.
       Sec. 231.  Employees of the Department of Housing and Urban 
     Development who are subject to administrative discipline in 
     fiscal year 2018, including suspension from work, shall not 
     receive awards (including performance, special act, or spot) 
     for the remainder of fiscal year 2018 after the effective 
     date of the disciplinary action.
       Sec. 232.  With respect to grant amounts awarded under the 
     heading ``Homeless Assistance Grants'' for fiscal years 2016, 
     2017, and 2018 for the continuum of care (CoC) program as 
     authorized under subtitle C of title IV of the McKinney-Vento 
     Homeless Assistance Act, costs paid by program income of 
     grant recipients may count toward meeting the recipient's 
     matching requirements, provided the costs are eligible CoC 
     costs that supplement the recipients CoC program.
       Sec. 233. (a) From amounts made available under this title 
     under the heading ``Homeless Assistance Grants'', the 
     Secretary may award 1-year transition grants to recipients of 
     funds for activities under subtitle C of the McKinney-Vento 
     Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11381 et seq.) to 
     transition from one Continuum of Care program component to 
     another.
       (b) No more than 50 percent of each transition grant may be 
     used for costs of eligible activities of the program 
     component originally funded.
       (c) Transition grants made under this section are eligible 
     for renewal in subsequent fiscal years for the eligible 
     activities of the new program component.
       (d) In order to be eligible to receive a transition grant, 
     the funding recipient must have the consent of the Continuum 
     of Care and meet standards determined by the Secretary.
       Sec. 234.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used by the Department of Housing and Urban Development to 
     direct a grantee to undertake specific changes to existing 
     zoning laws as part of carrying out the final rule entitled 
     ``Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing'' (80 Fed. Reg. 42272 
     (July 16, 2015)) or the notice entitled ``Affirmatively 
     Furthering Fair Housing Assessment Tool'' (79 Fed. Reg. 57949 
     (September 26, 2014)).
       Sec. 235.  Section 579 of the Multifamily Assisted Housing 
     Reform and Affordability Act of 1997 (42 U.S.C. 1437f note) 
     is amended by striking ``October 1, 2017'' each place it 
     appears and inserting in lieu thereof ``October 1, 2022''.
       Sec. 236.  None of the funds made available under this Act 
     for new guarantees of mortgages insured under the Mutual 
     Mortgage Insurance Fund may be used to guarantee or insure 
     any mortgage on a property that is subject to a loan or other 
     obligation, including those billed as taxes or assessments, 
     for the purpose of financing any improvements under a 
     Property Assessed Clean Energy or substantially similar 
     program, if any portion of such loan or obligation is or has 
     the potential to be in a lien position superior to the 
     mortgage to be insured or guaranteed under the Mutual 
     Mortgage Insurance Fund.
       Sec. 237.  The matter under the heading ``Rental Assistance 
     Demonstration'' in the Department of Housing and Urban 
     Development Appropriations Act, 2012 (42 U.S.C. 1437f note), 
     as amended, is amended--
       (1) in the 14th proviso--
       (A) by inserting ``or nonprofit'' before ``entity, then a 
     capable entity,''; and
       (B) by striking ``preserves its interest'' and inserting 
     ``or a nonprofit entity preserves an interest'';
       (2) by striking the 18th proviso and inserting the 
     following: ``Provided further, That for fiscal year 2012 and 
     hereafter, owners of properties assisted or previously 
     assisted under section 101 of the Housing and Urban 
     Development Act of 1965, section 236(f)(2) of the National 
     Housing Act, or section 8(e)(2) of the United States Housing 
     Act of 1937, for which a contract expires or terminates due 
     to prepayment on or after October 1, 2006, has caused or 
     results in the termination of rental assistance or 
     affordability restrictions or both and the issuance of tenant 
     protection vouchers under section 8(o) or section 8(t) of the 
     Act, or with a project rental assistance contract under 
     section 202(c)(2) of Housing Act of 1959, shall be eligible, 
     subject to requirements established by the Secretary, 
     including but not limited to tenant consultation procedures, 
     for conversion of assistance available or provided for such 
     vouchers or assistance contracts, to assistance under a long-
     term project-based subsidy contract under section 8 of the 
     Act, which shall have a term of no less than 20 years, which 
     shall have initial rents set at comparable market rents for 
     the market area, with subsequent rent adjustments only by an 
     operating cost factor established by the Secretary, and which 
     shall be eligible for renewal under section 524 of the 
     Multifamily Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability Act of 
     1997 (42 U.S.C. 1437f note), or, subject to agreement of the 
     administering public housing agency, to assistance under 
     section 8(o)(13) of the Act, to which the limitation under 
     subparagraph (B) of section 8(o)(13) of the Act shall not 
     apply and for which the Secretary may waive or alter the 
     provisions of subparagraphs (C) and (D) of section 8(o)(13) 
     of the Act (`Second Component' herein):'';
       (3) by inserting before the 19th proviso the following: 
     ``Provided further, That conversions of assistance under the 
     Second Component may not be the basis for re-screening or 
     termination of assistance or eviction of any tenant family in 
     a property participating in the demonstration:'';
       (4) in the 20th proviso, as so reordered by the amendments 
     made by the preceding provisions of this section, by striking 
     ``previous proviso'' and all that follows through the end of 
     the proviso and inserting ``Second Component, except for 
     conversion of section 202 project rental assistance 
     contracts, shall be available for project-based subsidy 
     contracts entered into pursuant to the Second Component:'';
       (5) in the 21st proviso, as so reordered by the amendments 
     made by the preceding provisions of this section, by striking 
     ``previous two provisos'' and inserting ``Second Component, 
     except for conversion of section 202 project rental 
     assistance contracts,'';
       (6) in the 22nd proviso, as so reordered by the amendments 
     made by the preceding provisions of this section, by striking 
     ``three previous provisos'' and inserting ``Second Component, 
     except for conversion of section 202 project rental 
     assistance contracts,'';
       (7) by inserting before the last proviso the following: 
     ``Provided further, That the Secretary may transfer amounts 
     made available under the heading `Housing for the Elderly' to 
     the accounts under the headings `Project-Based Rental 
     Assistance' or `Tenant-Based Rental Assistance' to facilitate 
     any section 202 project rental assistance contract 
     conversions under the Second Component, and any increase in 
     cost for `Project-Based Rental Assistance' or `Tenant-Based 
     Rental Assistance' associated with such conversion shall be 
     equal to amounts so transferred:''; and
       (8) in the last proviso, by striking ``previous four 
     provisos'' and inserting ``Second Component, as applicable''.
       This title may be cited as the ``Department of Housing and 
     Urban Development Appropriations Act, 2018''.

[[Page H6994]]

  


                               TITLE III

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                              Access Board

                         salaries and expenses

       For expenses necessary for the Access Board, as authorized 
     by section 502 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, 
     $8,190,000:  Provided, That, notwithstanding any other 
     provision of law, there may be credited to this appropriation 
     funds received for publications and training expenses.

                      Federal Maritime Commission

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Federal Maritime Commission 
     as authorized by section 201(d) of the Merchant Marine Act, 
     1936, as amended (46 U.S.C. 307), including services as 
     authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger motor vehicles 
     as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343(b); and uniforms or 
     allowances therefore, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902, 
     $27,490,000:  Provided, That not to exceed $2,000 shall be 
     available for official reception and representation expenses.

                National Railroad Passenger Corporation

                      Office of Inspector General

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
     for the National Railroad Passenger Corporation to carry out 
     the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
     amended, $23,274,000:  Provided, That the Inspector General 
     shall have all necessary authority, in carrying out the 
     duties specified in the Inspector General Act, as amended (5 
     U.S.C. App. 3), to investigate allegations of fraud, 
     including false statements to the government (18 U.S.C. 
     1001), by any person or entity that is subject to regulation 
     by the National Railroad Passenger Corporation:  Provided 
     further, That the Inspector General may enter into contracts 
     and other arrangements for audits, studies, analyses, and 
     other services with public agencies and with private persons, 
     subject to the applicable laws and regulations that govern 
     the obtaining of such services within the National Railroad 
     Passenger Corporation:  Provided further, That the Inspector 
     General may select, appoint, and employ such officers and 
     employees as may be necessary for carrying out the functions, 
     powers, and duties of the Office of Inspector General, 
     subject to the applicable laws and regulations that govern 
     such selections, appointments, and employment within the 
     Corporation:  Provided further, That concurrent with the 
     President's budget request for fiscal year 2018, the 
     Inspector General shall submit to the House and Senate 
     Committees on Appropriations a budget request for fiscal year 
     2018 in similar format and substance to those submitted by 
     executive agencies of the Federal Government.

                  National Transportation Safety Board

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the National Transportation 
     Safety Board, including hire of passenger motor vehicles and 
     aircraft; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at 
     rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem rate 
     equivalent to the rate for a GS-15; uniforms, or allowances 
     therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902), 
     $106,000,000, of which not to exceed $2,000 may be used for 
     official reception and representation expenses. The amounts 
     made available to the National Transportation Safety Board in 
     this Act include amounts necessary to make lease payments on 
     an obligation incurred in fiscal year 2001 for a capital 
     lease.

                 Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation

          payment to the neighborhood reinvestment corporation

       For payment to the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation 
     for use in neighborhood reinvestment activities, as 
     authorized by the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation Act 
     (42 U.S.C. 8101-8107), $140,000,000, of which $5,000,000 
     shall be for a multi-family rental housing program.

                      Surface Transportation Board

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Surface Transportation Board, 
     including services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $37,100,000:  
     Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     not to exceed $1,250,000 from fees established by the 
     Chairman of the Surface Transportation Board shall be 
     credited to this appropriation as offsetting collections and 
     used for necessary and authorized expenses under this 
     heading:  Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated 
     from the general fund shall be reduced on a dollar-for-dollar 
     basis as such offsetting collections are received during 
     fiscal year 2018, to result in a final appropriation from the 
     general fund estimated at no more than $35,850,000.

           United States Interagency Council on Homelessness

                           operating expenses

       For closure of the United States Interagency Council on 
     Homelessness, $570,000, notwithstanding section 209 of title 
     II of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act, as amended.

                                TITLE IV

                      GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS ACT

                        (including rescissions)

       Sec. 401.  None of the funds in this Act shall be used for 
     the planning or execution of any program to pay the expenses 
     of, or otherwise compensate, non-Federal parties intervening 
     in regulatory or adjudicatory proceedings funded in this Act.
       Sec. 402.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall 
     remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal 
     year, nor may any be transferred to other appropriations, 
     unless expressly so provided herein.
       Sec. 403.  The expenditure of any appropriation under this 
     Act for any consulting service through a procurement contract 
     pursuant to section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, 
     shall be limited to those contracts where such expenditures 
     are a matter of public record and available for public 
     inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing 
     law, or under existing Executive order issued pursuant to 
     existing law.
       Sec. 404. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act 
     may be obligated or expended for any employee training that--
       (1) does not meet identified needs for knowledge, skills, 
     and abilities bearing directly upon the performance of 
     official duties;
       (2) contains elements likely to induce high levels of 
     emotional response or psychological stress in some 
     participants;
       (3) does not require prior employee notification of the 
     content and methods to be used in the training and written 
     end of course evaluation;
       (4) contains any methods or content associated with 
     religious or quasi-religious belief systems or ``new age'' 
     belief systems as defined in Equal Employment Opportunity 
     Commission Notice N-915.022, dated September 2, 1988; or
       (5) is offensive to, or designed to change, participants' 
     personal values or lifestyle outside the workplace.
       (b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit, restrict, or 
     otherwise preclude an agency from conducting training bearing 
     directly upon the performance of official duties.
       Sec. 405.  Except as otherwise provided in this Act, none 
     of the funds provided in this Act, provided by previous 
     appropriations Acts to the agencies or entities funded in 
     this Act that remain available for obligation or expenditure 
     in fiscal year 2018, or provided from any accounts in the 
     Treasury derived by the collection of fees and available to 
     the agencies funded by this Act, shall be available for 
     obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming of funds 
     that--
       (1) creates a new program;
       (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity;
       (3) increases funds or personnel for any program, project, 
     or activity for which funds have been denied or restricted by 
     the Congress;
       (4) proposes to use funds directed for a specific activity 
     by either the House or Senate Committees on Appropriations 
     for a different purpose;
       (5) augments existing programs, projects, or activities in 
     excess of $5,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less;
       (6) reduces existing programs, projects, or activities by 
     $5,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less; or
       (7) creates, reorganizes, or restructures a branch, 
     division, office, bureau, board, commission, agency, 
     administration, or department different from the budget 
     justifications submitted to the Committees on Appropriations 
     or the table accompanying the explanatory statement 
     accompanying this Act, whichever is more detailed, unless 
     prior approval is received from the House and Senate 
     Committees on Appropriations:  Provided, That not later than 
     60 days after the date of enactment of this Act, each agency 
     funded by this Act shall submit a report to the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the Senate and of the House of 
     Representatives to establish the baseline for application of 
     reprogramming and transfer authorities for the current fiscal 
     year:  Provided further, That the report shall include--
       (A) a table for each appropriation with a separate column 
     to display the prior year enacted level, the President's 
     budget request, adjustments made by Congress, adjustments due 
     to enacted rescissions, if appropriate, and the fiscal year 
     enacted level;
       (B) a delineation in the table for each appropriation and 
     its respective prior year enacted level by object class and 
     program, project, and activity as detailed in the budget 
     appendix for the respective appropriation; and
       (C) an identification of items of special congressional 
     interest.
       Sec. 406.  Except as otherwise specifically provided by 
     law, not to exceed 50 percent of unobligated balances 
     remaining available at the end of fiscal year 2018 from 
     appropriations made available for salaries and expenses for 
     fiscal year 2018 in this Act, shall remain available through 
     September 30, 2019, for each such account for the purposes 
     authorized:  Provided, That a request shall be submitted to 
     the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations for 
     approval prior to the expenditure of such funds:  Provided 
     further, That these requests shall be made in compliance with 
     reprogramming guidelines under section 405 of this Act.
       Sec. 407.  No funds in this Act may be used to support any 
     Federal, State, or local projects that seek to use the power 
     of eminent domain, unless eminent domain is employed only for 
     a public use:  Provided, That for purposes of this section, 
     public use shall not be construed to include economic 
     development that primarily benefits private entities:  
     Provided further, That any use of funds for mass transit, 
     railroad, airport, seaport or highway projects, as well as 
     utility projects which benefit or serve the general public 
     (including energy-related, communication-related, water-
     related and wastewater-related infrastructure), other 
     structures designated

[[Page H6995]]

     for use by the general public or which have other common-
     carrier or public-utility functions that serve the general 
     public and are subject to regulation and oversight by the 
     government, and projects for the removal of an immediate 
     threat to public health and safety or brownfields as defined 
     in the Small Business Liability Relief and Brownfields 
     Revitalization Act (Public Law 107-118) shall be considered a 
     public use for purposes of eminent domain.
       Sec. 408.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality 
     of the United States Government, except pursuant to a 
     transfer made by, or transfer authority provided in, this Act 
     or any other appropriations Act.
       Sec. 409.  No part of any appropriation contained in this 
     Act shall be available to pay the salary for any person 
     filling a position, other than a temporary position, formerly 
     held by an employee who has left to enter the Armed Forces of 
     the United States and has satisfactorily completed his or her 
     period of active military or naval service, and has within 90 
     days after his or her release from such service or from 
     hospitalization continuing after discharge for a period of 
     not more than 1 year, made application for restoration to his 
     or her former position and has been certified by the Office 
     of Personnel Management as still qualified to perform the 
     duties of his or her former position and has not been 
     restored thereto.
       Sec. 410.  No funds appropriated pursuant to this Act may 
     be expended by an entity unless the entity agrees that in 
     expending the assistance the entity will comply with sections 
     2 through 4 of the Act of March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 8301-8305, 
     popularly known as the ``Buy American Act'').
       Sec. 411.  No funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available under this Act shall be made available to any 
     person or entity that has been convicted of violating the Buy 
     American Act (41 U.S.C. 8301-8305).
       Sec. 412.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used for first-class airline accommodations in 
     contravention of sections 301-10.122 and 301-10.123 of title 
     41, Code of Federal Regulations.
       Sec. 413. (a) None of the funds made available by this Act 
     may be used to approve a new foreign air carrier permit under 
     sections 41301 through 41305 of title 49, United States Code, 
     or exemption application under section 40109 of that title of 
     an air carrier already holding an air operators certificate 
     issued by a country that is party to the U.S.-E.U.-Iceland-
     Norway Air Transport Agreement where such approval would 
     contravene United States law or Article 17 bis of the U.S.-
     E.U.-Iceland-Norway Air Transport Agreement.
       (b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit, restrict or 
     otherwise preclude the Secretary of Transportation from 
     granting a foreign air carrier permit or an exemption to such 
     an air carrier where such authorization is consistent with 
     the U.S.-E.U.-Iceland-Norway Air Transport Agreement and 
     United States law.
       Sec. 414.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used to send or otherwise pay for the attendance of more 
     than 50 employees of a single agency or department of the 
     United States Government, who are stationed in the United 
     States, at any single international conference unless the 
     relevant Secretary reports to the House and Senate Committees 
     on Appropriations at least 5 days in advance that such 
     attendance is important to the national interest:  Provided, 
     That for purposes of this section the term ``international 
     conference'' shall mean a conference occurring outside of the 
     United States attended by representatives of the United 
     States Government and of foreign governments, international 
     organizations, or nongovernmental organizations.
       Sec. 415.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available under this Act may be used by the Surface 
     Transportation Board to charge or collect any filing fee for 
     rate or practice complaints filed with the Board in an amount 
     in excess of the amount authorized for district court civil 
     suit filing fees under section 1914 of title 28, United 
     States Code.
       Sec. 416. (a) All unobligated balances, including 
     recaptures and carryover, remaining from funds appropriated 
     in division K of Public Law 115-31 for ``Department of 
     Transportation-Office of the Secretary-Salaries and 
     Expenses'', ``Department of Transportation-Office of the 
     Secretary-Office of Civil Rights'', ``Department of 
     Transportation-Office of the Secretary-Small and 
     Disadvantaged Business Utilization and Outreach'', 
     ``Department of Transportation-Federal Transit 
     Administration-Administrative Expenses'', ``Department of 
     Transportation-Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety 
     Administration-Operational Expenses'', ``Surface 
     Transportation Board-Salaries and Expenses'', ``Access Board-
     Salaries and Expenses'', ``Federal Maritime Commission-
     Salaries and Expenses'', ``National Railroad Passenger 
     Corporation-Office of Inspector General-Salaries and 
     Expenses'', ``National Transportation Safety Board-Salaries 
     and Expenses'', and ``United States Interagency Council on 
     Homelessness-Operating Expenses'' are rescinded.
       (b) All unobligated balances, including recaptures and 
     carryover, remaining from funds appropriated in division K of 
     Public Law 115-31 for accounts under the headings 
     ``Department of Housing and Urban Development-Management and 
     Administration'' and ``Department of Housing and Urban 
     Development-Program Office Salaries and Expenses'' are 
     rescinded.
       Sec. 417. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act 
     may be used to maintain or establish a computer network 
     unless such network blocks the viewing, downloading, and 
     exchanging of pornography.
       (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
     necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law 
     enforcement agency or any other entity carrying out criminal 
     investigations, prosecution, or adjudication activities.

                           references to act

       Sec. 418.  Except as expressly provided otherwise, any 
     reference to ``this Act'' contained in this division shall be 
     treated as referring only to the provisions of this division.

                          reference to report

       Sec. 419.  Any reference to a ``report accompanying this 
     Act'' contained in this division shall be treated as a 
     reference to House Report 115-237. The effect of such Report 
     shall be limited to this division and shall apply for 
     purposes of determining the allocation of funds provided by, 
     and the implementation of, this division.

                       spending reduction account

       Sec. 420.  $0.
       This division may be cited as the ``Transportation, Housing 
     and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
     Act, 2018''.

       DIVISION I--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2018

        The following sums are appropriated, out of any money in 
     the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year 
     ending September 30, 2018, for military functions 
     administered by the Department of Defense and for other 
     purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                           MILITARY PERSONNEL

                        Military Personnel, Army

       For pay, allowances, individual clothing, subsistence, 
     interest on deposits, gratuities, permanent change of station 
     travel (including all expenses thereof for organizational 
     movements), and expenses of temporary duty travel between 
     permanent duty stations, for members of the Army on active 
     duty (except members of reserve components provided for 
     elsewhere), cadets, and aviation cadets; for members of the 
     Reserve Officers' Training Corps; and for payments pursuant 
     to section 156 of Public Law 97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C. 
     402 note), and to the Department of Defense Military 
     Retirement Fund, $41,427,054,000.

                        Military Personnel, Navy

       For pay, allowances, individual clothing, subsistence, 
     interest on deposits, gratuities, permanent change of station 
     travel (including all expenses thereof for organizational 
     movements), and expenses of temporary duty travel between 
     permanent duty stations, for members of the Navy on active 
     duty (except members of the Reserve provided for elsewhere), 
     midshipmen, and aviation cadets; for members of the Reserve 
     Officers' Training Corps; and for payments pursuant to 
     section 156 of Public Law 97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C. 402 
     note), and to the Department of Defense Military Retirement 
     Fund, $28,707,918,000 (reduced by $2,000,000) (increased by 
     $2,000,000).

                    Military Personnel, Marine Corps

       For pay, allowances, individual clothing, subsistence, 
     interest on deposits, gratuities, permanent change of station 
     travel (including all expenses thereof for organizational 
     movements), and expenses of temporary duty travel between 
     permanent duty stations, for members of the Marine Corps on 
     active duty (except members of the Reserve provided for 
     elsewhere); and for payments pursuant to section 156 of 
     Public Law 97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C. 402 note), and to 
     the Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund, 
     $13,165,714,000.

                     Military Personnel, Air Force

       For pay, allowances, individual clothing, subsistence, 
     interest on deposits, gratuities, permanent change of station 
     travel (including all expenses thereof for organizational 
     movements), and expenses of temporary duty travel between 
     permanent duty stations, for members of the Air Force on 
     active duty (except members of reserve components provided 
     for elsewhere), cadets, and aviation cadets; for members of 
     the Reserve Officers' Training Corps; and for payments 
     pursuant to section 156 of Public Law 97-377, as amended (42 
     U.S.C. 402 note), and to the Department of Defense Military 
     Retirement Fund, $28,738,320,000.

                        Reserve Personnel, Army

       For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, 
     travel, and related expenses for personnel of the Army 
     Reserve on active duty under sections 10211, 10302, and 3038 
     of title 10, United States Code, or while serving on active 
     duty under section 12301(d) of title 10, United States Code, 
     in connection with performing duty specified in section 
     12310(a) of title 10, United States Code, or while undergoing 
     reserve training, or while performing drills or equivalent 
     duty or other duty, and expenses authorized by section 16131 
     of title 10, United States Code; and for payments to the 
     Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund, 
     $4,721,128,000.

                        Reserve Personnel, Navy

       For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, 
     travel, and related expenses for

[[Page H6996]]

     personnel of the Navy Reserve on active duty under section 
     10211 of title 10, United States Code, or while serving on 
     active duty under section 12301(d) of title 10, United States 
     Code, in connection with performing duty specified in section 
     12310(a) of title 10, United States Code, or while undergoing 
     reserve training, or while performing drills or equivalent 
     duty, and expenses authorized by section 16131 of title 10, 
     United States Code; and for payments to the Department of 
     Defense Military Retirement Fund, $1,987,662,000.

                    Reserve Personnel, Marine Corps

       For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, 
     travel, and related expenses for personnel of the Marine 
     Corps Reserve on active duty under section 10211 of title 10, 
     United States Code, or while serving on active duty under 
     section 12301(d) of title 10, United States Code, in 
     connection with performing duty specified in section 12310(a) 
     of title 10, United States Code, or while undergoing reserve 
     training, or while performing drills or equivalent duty, and 
     for members of the Marine Corps platoon leaders class, and 
     expenses authorized by section 16131 of title 10, United 
     States Code; and for payments to the Department of Defense 
     Military Retirement Fund, $762,793,000.

                      Reserve Personnel, Air Force

       For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, 
     travel, and related expenses for personnel of the Air Force 
     Reserve on active duty under sections 10211, 10305, and 8038 
     of title 10, United States Code, or while serving on active 
     duty under section 12301(d) of title 10, United States Code, 
     in connection with performing duty specified in section 
     12310(a) of title 10, United States Code, or while undergoing 
     reserve training, or while performing drills or equivalent 
     duty or other duty, and expenses authorized by section 16131 
     of title 10, United States Code; and for payments to the 
     Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund, 
     $1,808,434,000.

                     National Guard Personnel, Army

       For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, 
     travel, and related expenses for personnel of the Army 
     National Guard while on duty under sections 10211, 10302, or 
     12402 of title 10 or section 708 of title 32, United States 
     Code, or while serving on duty under section 12301(d) of 
     title 10 or section 502(f) of title 32, United States Code, 
     in connection with performing duty specified in section 
     12310(a) of title 10, United States Code, or while undergoing 
     training, or while performing drills or equivalent duty or 
     other duty, and expenses authorized by section 16131 of title 
     10, United States Code; and for payments to the Department of 
     Defense Military Retirement Fund, $8,252,426,000.

                  National Guard Personnel, Air Force

       For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, 
     travel, and related expenses for personnel of the Air 
     National Guard on duty under sections 10211, 10305, or 12402 
     of title 10 or section 708 of title 32, United States Code, 
     or while serving on duty under section 12301(d) of title 10 
     or section 502(f) of title 32, United States Code, in 
     connection with performing duty specified in section 12310(a) 
     of title 10, United States Code, or while undergoing 
     training, or while performing drills or equivalent duty or 
     other duty, and expenses authorized by section 16131 of title 
     10, United States Code; and for payments to the Department of 
     Defense Military Retirement Fund, $3,406,137,000.

                                TITLE II

                       OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                    Operation and Maintenance, Army

       For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
     operation and maintenance of the Army, as authorized by law, 
     $38,483,846,000 (reduced by $5,000,000) (reduced by 
     $5,600,000) (reduced by $6,000,000):  Provided, That not to 
     exceed $12,478,000 can be used for emergencies and 
     extraordinary expenses, to be expended on the approval or 
     authority of the Secretary of the Army, and payments may be 
     made on his certificate of necessity for confidential 
     military purposes.

                    Operation and Maintenance, Navy

       For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
     operation and maintenance of the Navy and the Marine Corps, 
     as authorized by law, $45,980,133,000 (reduced by $598,000) 
     (reduced by $7,000,000):  Provided, That not to exceed 
     $15,055,000 can be used for emergencies and extraordinary 
     expenses, to be expended on the approval or authority of the 
     Secretary of the Navy, and payments may be made on his 
     certificate of necessity for confidential military purposes.

                Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps

       For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
     operation and maintenance of the Marine Corps, as authorized 
     by law, $6,885,884,000.

                  Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

       For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
     operation and maintenance of the Air Force, as authorized by 
     law, $38,592,745,000:  Provided, That not to exceed 
     $7,699,000 can be used for emergencies and extraordinary 
     expenses, to be expended on the approval or authority of the 
     Secretary of the Air Force, and payments may be made on his 
     certificate of necessity for confidential military purposes.

                Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
     operation and maintenance of activities and agencies of the 
     Department of Defense (other than the military departments), 
     as authorized by law, $33,771,769,000 (increased by 
     $5,000,000) (reduced by $10,000,000) (reduced by $100,000) 
     (increased by $100,000) (reduced by $194,897,000) (increased 
     by $194,897,000) (reduced by $26,200,000) (reduced by 
     $20,000,000) (reduced by $6,000,000) (reduced by $4,000,000) 
     (reduced by $20,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000) (reduced by 
     $10,000,000) (reduced by $2,500,000) (reduced by $2,000,000) 
     (reduced by $8,000,000) (reduced by $6,250,000) (reduced by 
     $10,000,000) (reduced by $10,000,000) (reduced by 
     $30,000,000) (reduced by $34,734,000) (reduced by 
     $60,000,000):  Provided, That not more than $15,000,000 may 
     be used for the Combatant Commander Initiative Fund 
     authorized under section 166a of title 10, United States 
     Code:  Provided further, That not to exceed $36,000,000 can 
     be used for emergencies and extraordinary expenses, to be 
     expended on the approval or authority of the Secretary of 
     Defense, and payments may be made on his certificate of 
     necessity for confidential military purposes:  Provided 
     further, That of the funds provided under this heading, not 
     less than $38,458,000 shall be made available for the 
     Procurement Technical Assistance Cooperative Agreement 
     Program, of which not less than $3,600,000 shall be available 
     for centers defined in 10 U.S.C. 2411(1)(D):  Provided 
     further, That none of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available by this Act may be used to plan or implement 
     the consolidation of a budget or appropriations liaison 
     office of the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the office 
     of the Secretary of a military department, or the service 
     headquarters of one of the Armed Forces into a legislative 
     affairs or legislative liaison office:  Provided further, 
     That $9,385,000, to remain available until expended, is 
     available only for expenses relating to certain classified 
     activities, and may be transferred as necessary by the 
     Secretary of Defense to operation and maintenance 
     appropriations or research, development, test and evaluation 
     appropriations, to be merged with and to be available for the 
     same time period as the appropriations to which transferred:  
     Provided further, That any ceiling on the investment item 
     unit cost of items that may be purchased with operation and 
     maintenance funds shall not apply to the funds described in 
     the preceding proviso:  Provided further, That of the funds 
     provided under this heading, $415,000,000, of which 
     $100,000,000 to remain available until September 30, 2019, 
     shall be available to provide support and assistance to 
     foreign security forces or other groups or individuals to 
     conduct, support or facilitate counterterrorism, crisis 
     response, or other Department of Defense security cooperation 
     programs:  Provided further, That the transfer authority 
     provided under this heading is in addition to any other 
     transfer authority provided elsewhere in this Act.

                Operation and Maintenance, Army Reserve

       For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
     operation and maintenance, including training, organization, 
     and administration, of the Army Reserve; repair of facilities 
     and equipment; hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and 
     transportation; care of the dead; recruiting; procurement of 
     services, supplies, and equipment; and communications, 
     $2,870,163,000.

                Operation and Maintenance, Navy Reserve

       For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
     operation and maintenance, including training, organization, 
     and administration, of the Navy Reserve; repair of facilities 
     and equipment; hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and 
     transportation; care of the dead; recruiting; procurement of 
     services, supplies, and equipment; and communications, 
     $1,038,507,000.

            Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps Reserve

       For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
     operation and maintenance, including training, organization, 
     and administration, of the Marine Corps Reserve; repair of 
     facilities and equipment; hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
     travel and transportation; care of the dead; recruiting; 
     procurement of services, supplies, and equipment; and 
     communications, $282,337,000.

              Operation and Maintenance, Air Force Reserve

       For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
     operation and maintenance, including training, organization, 
     and administration, of the Air Force Reserve; repair of 
     facilities and equipment; hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
     travel and transportation; care of the dead; recruiting; 
     procurement of services, supplies, and equipment; and 
     communications, $3,233,745,000.

             Operation and Maintenance, Army National Guard

       For expenses of training, organizing, and administering the 
     Army National Guard, including medical and hospital treatment 
     and related expenses in non-Federal hospitals; maintenance, 
     operation, and repairs to structures and facilities; hire of 
     passenger motor vehicles; personnel services in the National 
     Guard Bureau; travel expenses (other than mileage), as 
     authorized by law for Army personnel on active duty, for Army 
     National Guard division, regimental, and battalion commanders 
     while inspecting units in compliance with National Guard 
     Bureau regulations when specifically authorized by the Chief, 
     National Guard Bureau; supplying and equipping the Army 
     National Guard as authorized by law; and expenses of repair, 
     modification, maintenance, and issue of supplies and 
     equipment (including aircraft), $7,275,820,000.

[[Page H6997]]

  


             Operation and Maintenance, Air National Guard

       For expenses of training, organizing, and administering the 
     Air National Guard, including medical and hospital treatment 
     and related expenses in non-Federal hospitals; maintenance, 
     operation, and repairs to structures and facilities; 
     transportation of things, hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
     supplying and equipping the Air National Guard, as authorized 
     by law; expenses for repair, modification, maintenance, and 
     issue of supplies and equipment, including those furnished 
     from stocks under the control of agencies of the Department 
     of Defense; travel expenses (other than mileage) on the same 
     basis as authorized by law for Air National Guard personnel 
     on active Federal duty, for Air National Guard commanders 
     while inspecting units in compliance with National Guard 
     Bureau regulations when specifically authorized by the Chief, 
     National Guard Bureau, $6,735,930,000.

          United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces

       For salaries and expenses necessary for the United States 
     Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces, $14,538,000, of which 
     not to exceed $5,000 may be used for official representation 
     purposes.

                    Environmental Restoration, Army

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For the Department of the Army, $215,809,000, to remain 
     available until transferred:  Provided, That the Secretary of 
     the Army shall, upon determining that such funds are required 
     for environmental restoration, reduction and recycling of 
     hazardous waste, removal of unsafe buildings and debris of 
     the Department of the Army, or for similar purposes, transfer 
     the funds made available by this appropriation to other 
     appropriations made available to the Department of the Army, 
     to be merged with and to be available for the same purposes 
     and for the same time period as the appropriations to which 
     transferred:  Provided further, That upon a determination 
     that all or part of the funds transferred from this 
     appropriation are not necessary for the purposes provided 
     herein, such amounts may be transferred back to this 
     appropriation:  Provided further, That the transfer authority 
     provided under this heading is in addition to any other 
     transfer authority provided elsewhere in this Act.

                    Environmental Restoration, Navy

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For the Department of the Navy, $288,915,000 (increased by 
     $34,734,000) (increased by $30,000,000), to remain available 
     until transferred:  Provided, That the Secretary of the Navy 
     shall, upon determining that such funds are required for 
     environmental restoration, reduction and recycling of 
     hazardous waste, removal of unsafe buildings and debris of 
     the Department of the Navy, or for similar purposes, transfer 
     the funds made available by this appropriation to other 
     appropriations made available to the Department of the Navy, 
     to be merged with and to be available for the same purposes 
     and for the same time period as the appropriations to which 
     transferred:  Provided further, That upon a determination 
     that all or part of the funds transferred from this 
     appropriation are not necessary for the purposes provided 
     herein, such amounts may be transferred back to this 
     appropriation:  Provided further, That the transfer authority 
     provided under this heading is in addition to any other 
     transfer authority provided elsewhere in this Act.

                  Environmental Restoration, Air Force

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For the Department of the Air Force, $308,749,000 
     (increased by $30,000,000), to remain available until 
     transferred:  Provided, That the Secretary of the Air Force 
     shall, upon determining that such funds are required for 
     environmental restoration, reduction and recycling of 
     hazardous waste, removal of unsafe buildings and debris of 
     the Department of the Air Force, or for similar purposes, 
     transfer the funds made available by this appropriation to 
     other appropriations made available to the Department of the 
     Air Force, to be merged with and to be available for the same 
     purposes and for the same time period as the appropriations 
     to which transferred:  Provided further, That upon a 
     determination that all or part of the funds transferred from 
     this appropriation are not necessary for the purposes 
     provided herein, such amounts may be transferred back to this 
     appropriation:  Provided further, That the transfer authority 
     provided under this heading is in addition to any other 
     transfer authority provided elsewhere in this Act.

                Environmental Restoration, Defense-Wide

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For the Department of Defense, $9,002,000 (increased by 
     $10,000,000), to remain available until transferred:  
     Provided, That the Secretary of Defense shall, upon 
     determining that such funds are required for environmental 
     restoration, reduction and recycling of hazardous waste, 
     removal of unsafe buildings and debris of the Department of 
     Defense, or for similar purposes, transfer the funds made 
     available by this appropriation to other appropriations made 
     available to the Department of Defense, to be merged with and 
     to be available for the same purposes and for the same time 
     period as the appropriations to which transferred:  Provided 
     further, That upon a determination that all or part of the 
     funds transferred from this appropriation are not necessary 
     for the purposes provided herein, such amounts may be 
     transferred back to this appropriation:  Provided further, 
     That the transfer authority provided under this heading is in 
     addition to any other transfer authority provided elsewhere 
     in this Act.

         Environmental Restoration, Formerly Used Defense Sites

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For the Department of the Army, $233,673,000, to remain 
     available until transferred:  Provided, That the Secretary of 
     the Army shall, upon determining that such funds are required 
     for environmental restoration, reduction and recycling of 
     hazardous waste, removal of unsafe buildings and debris at 
     sites formerly used by the Department of Defense, transfer 
     the funds made available by this appropriation to other 
     appropriations made available to the Department of the Army, 
     to be merged with and to be available for the same purposes 
     and for the same time period as the appropriations to which 
     transferred:  Provided further, That upon a determination 
     that all or part of the funds transferred from this 
     appropriation are not necessary for the purposes provided 
     herein, such amounts may be transferred back to this 
     appropriation:  Provided further, That the transfer authority 
     provided under this heading is in addition to any other 
     transfer authority provided elsewhere in this Act.

             Overseas Humanitarian, Disaster, and Civic Aid

       For expenses relating to the Overseas Humanitarian, 
     Disaster, and Civic Aid programs of the Department of Defense 
     (consisting of the programs provided under sections 401, 402, 
     404, 407, 2557, and 2561 of title 10, United States Code), 
     $107,900,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018.

                  Cooperative Threat Reduction Account

       For assistance, including assistance provided by contract 
     or by grants, under programs and activities of the Department 
     of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Program authorized 
     under the Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction 
     Act, $324,600,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2019.

      Operation and Maintenance, National Defense Restoration Fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

       In addition to amounts provided elsewhere in this Act, 
     there is appropriated $5,000,000,000, for the ``Operation and 
     Maintenance, National Defense Restoration Fund'': Provided, 
     That such funds provided under this heading shall only be 
     available for programs, projects and activities necessary to 
     implement the 2018 National Defense Strategy: Provided 
     further, That such funds shall not be available for transfer 
     until 30 days after the Secretary has submitted, and the 
     congressional defense committees have approved, the proposed 
     allocation plan for the use of such funds to implement such 
     strategy: Provided further, That such allocation plan shall 
     include a detailed justification for the use of such funds 
     and a description of how such investments are necessary to 
     implement the strategy: Provided further, That the Secretary 
     of Defense may transfer these funds only to operation and 
     maintenance accounts: Provided further, That the funds 
     transferred shall be merged with and shall be available for 
     the same purposes and for the same time period, as the 
     appropriation to which transferred: Provided further, That 
     none of the funds made available under this heading may be 
     transferred to any program, project, or activity specifically 
     limited or denied by this Act: Provided further, That the 
     transfer authority provided under this heading is in addition 
     to any other transfer authority available to the Department 
     of Defense.

                               TITLE III

                              PROCUREMENT

                       Aircraft Procurement, Army

       For construction, procurement, production, modification, 
     and modernization of aircraft, equipment, including ordnance, 
     ground handling equipment, spare parts, and accessories 
     therefor; specialized equipment and training devices; 
     expansion of public and private plants, including the land 
     necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and such 
     lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and 
     construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; 
     and procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, 
     and machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant 
     and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; and 
     other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes, 
     $4,456,533,000, to remain available for obligation until 
     September 30, 2020.

                       Missile Procurement, Army

       For construction, procurement, production, modification, 
     and modernization of missiles, equipment, including ordnance, 
     ground handling equipment, spare parts, and accessories 
     therefor; specialized equipment and training devices; 
     expansion of public and private plants, including the land 
     necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and such 
     lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and 
     construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; 
     and procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, 
     and machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant 
     and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; and 
     other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes, 
     $2,581,600,000, to remain available for obligation until 
     September 30, 2020.

        Procurement of Weapons and Tracked Combat Vehicles, Army

       For construction, procurement, production, and modification 
     of weapons and

[[Page H6998]]

     tracked combat vehicles, equipment, including ordnance, spare 
     parts, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment and 
     training devices; expansion of public and private plants, 
     including the land necessary therefor, for the foregoing 
     purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be 
     acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to 
     approval of title; and procurement and installation of 
     equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and 
     private plants; reserve plant and Government and contractor-
     owned equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for the 
     foregoing purposes, $3,556,175,000, to remain available for 
     obligation until September 30, 2020.

                    Procurement of Ammunition, Army

       For construction, procurement, production, and modification 
     of ammunition, and accessories therefor; specialized 
     equipment and training devices; expansion of public and 
     private plants, including ammunition facilities, authorized 
     by section 2854 of title 10, United States Code, and the land 
     necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and such 
     lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and 
     construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; 
     and procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, 
     and machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant 
     and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; and 
     other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes, 
     $1,811,808,000, to remain available for obligation until 
     September 30, 2020.

                        Other Procurement, Army

       For construction, procurement, production, and modification 
     of vehicles, including tactical, support, and non-tracked 
     combat vehicles; the purchase of passenger motor vehicles for 
     replacement only; communications and electronic equipment; 
     other support equipment; spare parts, ordnance, and 
     accessories therefor; specialized equipment and training 
     devices; expansion of public and private plants, including 
     the land necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and 
     such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and 
     construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; 
     and procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, 
     and machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant 
     and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; and 
     other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes, 
     $6,356,044,000 (increased by $30,000,000), to remain 
     available for obligation until September 30, 2020.

                       Aircraft Procurement, Navy

       For construction, procurement, production, modification, 
     and modernization of aircraft, equipment, including ordnance, 
     spare parts, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment; 
     expansion of public and private plants, including the land 
     necessary therefor, and such lands and interests therein, may 
     be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to 
     approval of title; and procurement and installation of 
     equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and 
     private plants; reserve plant and Government and contractor-
     owned equipment layaway, $17,908,270,000, to remain available 
     for obligation until September 30, 2020.

                       Weapons Procurement, Navy

       For construction, procurement, production, modification, 
     and modernization of missiles, torpedoes, other weapons, and 
     related support equipment including spare parts, and 
     accessories therefor; expansion of public and private plants, 
     including the land necessary therefor, and such lands and 
     interests therein, may be acquired, and construction 
     prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and 
     procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, and 
     machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant and 
     Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway, 
     $3,387,826,000 (increased by $26,200,000), to remain 
     available for obligation until September 30, 2020.

            Procurement of Ammunition, Navy and Marine Corps

       For construction, procurement, production, and modification 
     of ammunition, and accessories therefor; specialized 
     equipment and training devices; expansion of public and 
     private plants, including ammunition facilities, authorized 
     by section 2854 of title 10, United States Code, and the land 
     necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and such 
     lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and 
     construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; 
     and procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, 
     and machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant 
     and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; and 
     other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes, 
     $735,651,000, to remain available for obligation until 
     September 30, 2020.

                   Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy

       For expenses necessary for the construction, acquisition, 
     or conversion of vessels as authorized by law, including 
     armor and armament thereof, plant equipment, appliances, and 
     machine tools and installation thereof in public and private 
     plants; reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned 
     equipment layaway; procurement of critical, long lead time 
     components and designs for vessels to be constructed or 
     converted in the future; and expansion of public and private 
     plants, including land necessary therefor, and such lands and 
     interests therein, may be acquired, and construction 
     prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title, as follows:
       Ohio Replacement Submarine (AP), $842,853,000;
       Carrier Replacement Program, $1,869,646,000;
       Carrier Replacement Program (AP), $2,561,058,000;
       Virginia Class Submarine, $3,305,315,000;
       Virginia Class Submarine (AP), $1,920,596,000;
       CVN Refueling Overhauls, $1,569,669,000;
       CVN Refueling Overhauls (AP), $75,897,000;
       DDG-1000 Program, $164,976,000;
       DDG-51 Destroyer, $3,499,079,000;
       DDG-51 Destroyer (AP), $90,336,000;
       Littoral Combat Ship, $1,566,971,000;
       Expeditionary Sea Base, $635,000,000;
       LHA Replacement, $1,695,077,000;
       TAO Fleet Oiler, $449,415,000;
       TAO Fleet Oiler (AP), $75,068,000;
       Ship to Shore Connector, $390,554,000;
       Service Craft, $23,994,000;
       Towing, Salvage, and Rescue Ship, $76,204,000;
       LCU 1700, $31,850,000;
       For outfitting, post delivery, conversions, and first 
     destination transportation, $542,626,000; and
       Completion of Prior Year Shipbuilding Programs, 
     $117,542,000.
       In all: $21,503,726,000, to remain available for obligation 
     until September 30, 2022:  Provided, That additional 
     obligations may be incurred after September 30, 2022, for 
     engineering services, tests, evaluations, and other such 
     budgeted work that must be performed in the final stage of 
     ship construction:  Provided further, That none of the funds 
     provided under this heading for the construction or 
     conversion of any naval vessel to be constructed in shipyards 
     in the United States shall be expended in foreign facilities 
     for the construction of major components of such vessel:  
     Provided further, That none of the funds provided under this 
     heading shall be used for the construction of any naval 
     vessel in foreign shipyards:  Provided further, That funds 
     appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act for 
     production of the common missile compartment of nuclear-
     powered vessels may be available for multiyear procurement of 
     critical components to support continuous production of such 
     compartments only in accordance with the provisions of 
     subsection (i) of section 2218a of title 10, United States 
     Code (as added by section 1023 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328)).

                        Other Procurement, Navy

       For procurement, production, and modernization of support 
     equipment and materials not otherwise provided for, Navy 
     ordnance (except ordnance for new aircraft, new ships, and 
     ships authorized for conversion); the purchase of passenger 
     motor vehicles for replacement only; expansion of public and 
     private plants, including the land necessary therefor, and 
     such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and 
     construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; 
     and procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, 
     and machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant 
     and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway, 
     $7,852,952,000, to remain available for obligation until 
     September 30, 2020.

                       Procurement, Marine Corps

       For expenses necessary for the procurement, manufacture, 
     and modification of missiles, armament, military equipment, 
     spare parts, and accessories therefor; plant equipment, 
     appliances, and machine tools, and installation thereof in 
     public and private plants; reserve plant and Government and 
     contractor-owned equipment layaway; vehicles for the Marine 
     Corps, including the purchase of passenger motor vehicles for 
     replacement only; and expansion of public and private plants, 
     including land necessary therefor, and such lands and 
     interests therein, may be acquired, and construction 
     prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title, $1,818,846,000 
     (increased by $20,000,000), to remain available for 
     obligation until September 30, 2020.

                    Aircraft Procurement, Air Force

       For construction, procurement, and modification of aircraft 
     and equipment, including armor and armament, specialized 
     ground handling equipment, and training devices, spare parts, 
     and accessories therefor; specialized equipment; expansion of 
     public and private plants, Government-owned equipment and 
     installation thereof in such plants, erection of structures, 
     and acquisition of land, for the foregoing purposes, and such 
     lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and 
     construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; 
     reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment 
     layaway; and other expenses necessary for the foregoing 
     purposes including rents and transportation of things, 
     $16,553,196,000 (increased by $16,000,000), to remain 
     available for obligation until September 30, 2020.

                     Missile Procurement, Air Force

       For construction, procurement, and modification of 
     missiles, rockets, and related equipment, including spare 
     parts and accessories therefor; ground handling equipment, 
     and training devices; expansion of public and private plants, 
     Government-owned equipment and installation thereof in such 
     plants, erection of structures, and acquisition of land, for 
     the foregoing purposes, and such lands and interests therein, 
     may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to 
     approval of title; reserve plant and Government and 
     contractor-owned equipment layaway; and other expenses 
     necessary for the foregoing purposes including rents and 
     transportation of things, $2,203,101,000, to remain

[[Page H6999]]

     available for obligation until September 30, 2020.

                      Space Procurement, Air Force

       For construction, procurement, and modification of 
     spacecraft, rockets, and related equipment, including spare 
     parts and accessories therefor; ground handling equipment, 
     and training devices; expansion of public and private plants, 
     Government-owned equipment and installation thereof in such 
     plants, erection of structures, and acquisition of land, for 
     the foregoing purposes, and such lands and interests therein, 
     may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to 
     approval of title; reserve plant and Government and 
     contractor-owned equipment layaway; and other expenses 
     necessary for the foregoing purposes including rents and 
     transportation of things, $3,210,355,000, to remain available 
     for obligation until September 30, 2020.

                  Procurement of Ammunition, Air Force

       For construction, procurement, production, and modification 
     of ammunition, and accessories therefor; specialized 
     equipment and training devices; expansion of public and 
     private plants, including ammunition facilities, authorized 
     by section 2854 of title 10, United States Code, and the land 
     necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and such 
     lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and 
     construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; 
     and procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, 
     and machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant 
     and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; and 
     other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes, 
     $1,316,977,000, to remain available for obligation until 
     September 30, 2020.

                      Other Procurement, Air Force

       For procurement and modification of equipment (including 
     ground guidance and electronic control equipment, and ground 
     electronic and communication equipment), and supplies, 
     materials, and spare parts therefor, not otherwise provided 
     for; the purchase of passenger motor vehicles for replacement 
     only; lease of passenger motor vehicles; and expansion of 
     public and private plants, Government-owned equipment and 
     installation thereof in such plants, erection of structures, 
     and acquisition of land, for the foregoing purposes, and such 
     lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and 
     construction prosecuted thereon, prior to approval of title; 
     reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment 
     layaway, $19,318,814,000, to remain available for obligation 
     until September 30, 2020.

                       Procurement, Defense-Wide

       For expenses of activities and agencies of the Department 
     of Defense (other than the military departments) necessary 
     for procurement, production, and modification of equipment, 
     supplies, materials, and spare parts therefor, not otherwise 
     provided for; the purchase of passenger motor vehicles for 
     replacement only; expansion of public and private plants, 
     equipment, and installation thereof in such plants, erection 
     of structures, and acquisition of land for the foregoing 
     purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be 
     acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to 
     approval of title; reserve plant and Government and 
     contractor-owned equipment layaway, $5,239,239,000 (reduced 
     by $10,000,000), to remain available for obligation until 
     September 30, 2020.

                    Defense Production Act Purchases

       For activities by the Department of Defense pursuant to 
     sections 108, 301, 302, and 303 of the Defense Production Act 
     of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 4518, 4531, 4532, and 4533), $67,401,000, 
     to remain available until expended.

             Procurement, National Defense Restoration Fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

       In addition to amounts provided elsewhere in this Act, 
     there is appropriated $12,622,931,000, for the ``Procurement, 
     National Defense Restoration Fund'': Provided, That such 
     funds provided under this heading shall only be available for 
     programs, projects and activities necessary to implement the 
     2018 National Defense Strategy: Provided further, That such 
     funds shall not be available for transfer until 30 days after 
     the Secretary has submitted, and the congressional defense 
     committees have approved, the proposed allocation plan for 
     the use of such funds to implement such strategy: Provided 
     further, That such allocation plan shall include a detailed 
     justification for the use of such funds and a description of 
     how such investments are necessary to implement the strategy: 
     Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense may transfer 
     these funds only to procurement accounts: Provided further, 
     That the funds transferred shall be merged with and shall be 
     available for the same purposes and for the same time period, 
     as the appropriation to which transferred: Provided further, 
     That none of the funds made available under this heading may 
     be transferred to any program, project, or activity 
     specifically limited or denied by this Act, except for 
     missile defense requirements resulting from urgent or 
     emergent operational needs: Provided further, That the 
     transfer authority provided under this heading is in addition 
     to any other transfer authority available to the Department 
     of Defense.

                                TITLE IV

               RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army

       For expenses necessary for basic and applied scientific 
     research, development, test and evaluation, including 
     maintenance, rehabilitation, lease, and operation of 
     facilities and equipment, $9,674,222,000 (increased by 
     $6,000,000) (increased by $4,000,000) (increased by 
     $12,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000), to remain available 
     for obligation until September 30, 2019.

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy

       For expenses necessary for basic and applied scientific 
     research, development, test and evaluation, including 
     maintenance, rehabilitation, lease, and operation of 
     facilities and equipment, $17,196,521,000 (increased by 
     $598,000) (increased by $20,000,000) (reduced by $2,500,000) 
     (increased by $24,000,000), to remain available for 
     obligation until September 30, 2019:  Provided, That funds 
     appropriated in this paragraph which are available for the V-
     22 may be used to meet unique operational requirements of the 
     Special Operations Forces.

         Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force

       For expenses necessary for basic and applied scientific 
     research, development, test and evaluation, including 
     maintenance, rehabilitation, lease, and operation of 
     facilities and equipment, $33,874,980,000 (increased by 
     $5,000,000) (increased by $6,000,000) (increased by 
     $10,000,000) (reduced by $30,000,000) (increased by 
     $30,000,000), to remain available for obligation until 
     September 30, 2019.

        Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For expenses of activities and agencies of the Department 
     of Defense (other than the military departments), necessary 
     for basic and applied scientific research, development, test 
     and evaluation; advanced research projects as may be 
     designated and determined by the Secretary of Defense, 
     pursuant to law; maintenance, rehabilitation, lease, and 
     operation of facilities and equipment, $20,698,353,000 
     (reduced by $16,000,000) (reduced by $12,000,000) (reduced by 
     $2,500,000) (reduced by $12,500,000) (increased by 
     $20,000,000) (reduced by $20,000,000) (reduced by $4,135,000) 
     (increased by $4,135,000) (reduced by $27,500,000) (increased 
     by $10,000,000), to remain available for obligation until 
     September 30, 2019:  Provided, That, of the funds made 
     available in this paragraph, $250,000,000 for the Defense 
     Rapid Innovation Program shall only be available for 
     expenses, not otherwise provided for, to include program 
     management and oversight, to conduct research, development, 
     test and evaluation to include proof of concept 
     demonstration; engineering, testing, and validation; and 
     transition to full-scale production:  Provided further, That 
     the Secretary of Defense may transfer funds provided herein 
     for the Defense Rapid Innovation Program to appropriations 
     for research, development, test and evaluation to accomplish 
     the purpose provided herein:  Provided further, That this 
     transfer authority is in addition to any other transfer 
     authority available to the Department of Defense:  Provided 
     further, That the Secretary of Defense shall, not fewer than 
     30 days prior to making transfers from this appropriation, 
     notify the congressional defense committees in writing of the 
     details of any such transfer.

                Operational Test and Evaluation, Defense

       For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
     independent activities of the Director, Operational Test and 
     Evaluation, in the direction and supervision of operational 
     test and evaluation, including initial operational test and 
     evaluation which is conducted prior to, and in support of, 
     production decisions; joint operational testing and 
     evaluation; and administrative expenses in connection 
     therewith, $210,900,000, to remain available for obligation 
     until September 30, 2019.

     Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, National Defense 
                            Restoration Fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

       In addition to amounts provided elsewhere in this Act, 
     there is appropriated $1,000,000,000, for the ``Research, 
     Development, Test and Evaluation, National Defense 
     Restoration Fund'': Provided, That such funds provided under 
     this heading shall only be available for programs, projects 
     and activities necessary to implement the 2018 National 
     Defense Strategy: Provided further, That such funds shall not 
     be available for transfer until 30 days after the Secretary 
     has submitted, and the congressional defense committees have 
     approved, the proposed allocation plan for the use of such 
     funds to implement such strategy: Provided further, That such 
     allocation plan shall include a detailed justification for 
     the use of such funds and a description of how such 
     investments are necessary to implement the strategy: Provided 
     further, That the Secretary of Defense may transfer these 
     funds only to research, development, test and evaluation 
     accounts: Provided further, That the funds transferred shall 
     be merged with and shall be available for the same purposes 
     and for the same time period, as the appropriation to which 
     transferred: Provided further, That none of the funds made 
     available under this heading may be transferred to any 
     program, project, or activity specifically limited or denied 
     by this Act, except for missile defense requirements 
     resulting from urgent or emergent

[[Page H7000]]

     operational needs: Provided further, That the transfer 
     authority provided under this heading is in addition to any 
     other transfer authority available to the Department of 
     Defense.

                                TITLE V

                     REVOLVING AND MANAGEMENT FUNDS

                     Defense Working Capital Funds

       For the Defense Working Capital Funds, $1,586,596,000.

                                TITLE VI

                  OTHER DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROGRAMS

                         Defense Health Program

       For expenses, not otherwise provided for, for medical and 
     health care programs of the Department of Defense as 
     authorized by law, $33,931,566,000 (increased by $7,000,000) 
     (increased by $1,000,000) (increased by $10,000,000) 
     (increased by $2,000,000) (increased by $2,000,000) 
     (increased by $10,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000) 
     (increased by $10,000,000); of which $31,735,923,000 
     (increased by $2,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000) shall be 
     for operation and maintenance, of which not to exceed one 
     percent shall remain available for obligation until September 
     30, 2019, and of which up to $15,349,700,000 may be available 
     for contracts entered into under the TRICARE program; of 
     which $895,328,000, to remain available for obligation until 
     September 30, 2020, shall be for procurement; and of which 
     $1,300,315,000 (increased by $7,000,000) (increased by 
     $1,000,000) (increased by $10,000,000) (increased by 
     $2,000,000) (increased by $10,000,000) (increased by 
     $10,000,000), to remain available for obligation until 
     September 30, 2019, shall be for research, development, test 
     and evaluation:  Provided, That, notwithstanding any other 
     provision of law, of the amount made available under this 
     heading for research, development, test and evaluation, not 
     less than $8,000,000 shall be available for HIV prevention 
     educational activities undertaken in connection with United 
     States military training, exercises, and humanitarian 
     assistance activities conducted primarily in African nations: 
      Provided further, That of the funds provided under this 
     heading for research, development, test and evaluation, not 
     less than $627,100,000 shall be made available to the United 
     States Army Medical Research and Materiel Command to carry 
     out the congressionally directed medical research programs.

           Chemical Agents and Munitions Destruction, Defense

       For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
     destruction of the United States stockpile of lethal chemical 
     agents and munitions in accordance with the provisions of 
     section 1412 of the Department of Defense Authorization Act, 
     1986 (50 U.S.C. 1521), and for the destruction of other 
     chemical warfare materials that are not in the chemical 
     weapon stockpile, $961,732,000, of which $104,237,000 shall 
     be for operation and maintenance, of which no less than 
     $49,401,000 shall be for the Chemical Stockpile Emergency 
     Preparedness Program, consisting of $21,045,000 for 
     activities on military installations and $28,356,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2019, to assist State 
     and local governments; $18,081,000 shall be for procurement, 
     to remain available until September 30, 2020, of which 
     $18,081,000 shall be for the Chemical Stockpile Emergency 
     Preparedness Program to assist State and local governments; 
     and $839,414,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2019, shall be for research, development, test and 
     evaluation, of which $750,700,000 shall only be for the 
     Assembled Chemical Weapons Alternatives program.

         Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For drug interdiction and counter-drug activities of the 
     Department of Defense, for transfer to appropriations 
     available to the Department of Defense for military personnel 
     of the reserve components serving under the provisions of 
     title 10 and title 32, United States Code; for operation and 
     maintenance; for procurement; and for research, development, 
     test and evaluation, $854,814,000, of which $532,648,000 
     shall be for counter-narcotics support; $120,813,000 shall be 
     for the drug demand reduction program; and $201,353,000 shall 
     be for the National Guard counter-drug program:  Provided, 
     That the funds appropriated under this heading shall be 
     available for obligation for the same time period and for the 
     same purpose as the appropriation to which transferred:  
     Provided further, That upon a determination that all or part 
     of the funds transferred from this appropriation are not 
     necessary for the purposes provided herein, such amounts may 
     be transferred back to this appropriation:  Provided further, 
     That the transfer authority provided under this heading is in 
     addition to any other transfer authority contained elsewhere 
     in this Act.

                    Office of the Inspector General

       For expenses and activities of the Office of the Inspector 
     General in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector 
     General Act of 1978, as amended, $336,887,000, of which 
     $334,087,000 shall be for operation and maintenance, of which 
     not to exceed $700,000 is available for emergencies and 
     extraordinary expenses to be expended on the approval or 
     authority of the Inspector General, and payments may be made 
     on the Inspector General's certificate of necessity for 
     confidential military purposes; and of which $2,800,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2019, shall be for 
     research, development, test and evaluation.

                               TITLE VII

                            RELATED AGENCIES

   Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability System Fund

       For payment to the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement 
     and Disability System Fund, to maintain the proper funding 
     level for continuing the operation of the Central 
     Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability System, 
     $514,000,000.

               Intelligence Community Management Account

       For necessary expenses of the Intelligence Community 
     Management Account, $522,100,000.

                               TITLE VIII

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

       Sec. 8001.  No part of any appropriation contained in this 
     Act shall be used for publicity or propaganda purposes not 
     authorized by the Congress.
       Sec. 8002.  During the current fiscal year, provisions of 
     law prohibiting the payment of compensation to, or employment 
     of, any person not a citizen of the United States shall not 
     apply to personnel of the Department of Defense:  Provided, 
     That salary increases granted to direct and indirect hire 
     foreign national employees of the Department of Defense 
     funded by this Act shall not be at a rate in excess of the 
     percentage increase authorized by law for civilian employees 
     of the Department of Defense whose pay is computed under the 
     provisions of section 5332 of title 5, United States Code, or 
     at a rate in excess of the percentage increase provided by 
     the appropriate host nation to its own employees, whichever 
     is higher:  Provided further, That this section shall not 
     apply to Department of Defense foreign service national 
     employees serving at United States diplomatic missions whose 
     pay is set by the Department of State under the Foreign 
     Service Act of 1980:  Provided further, That the limitations 
     of this provision shall not apply to foreign national 
     employees of the Department of Defense in the Republic of 
     Turkey.
       Sec. 8003.  No part of any appropriation contained in this 
     Act shall remain available for obligation beyond the current 
     fiscal year, unless expressly so provided herein.
       Sec. 8004.  No more than 20 percent of the appropriations 
     in this Act which are limited for obligation during the 
     current fiscal year shall be obligated during the last 2 
     months of the fiscal year:  Provided, That this section shall 
     not apply to obligations for support of active duty training 
     of reserve components or summer camp training of the Reserve 
     Officers' Training Corps.

                          (transfer of funds)

       Sec. 8005.  Upon determination by the Secretary of Defense 
     that such action is necessary in the national interest, he 
     may, with the approval of the Office of Management and 
     Budget, transfer not to exceed $4,500,000,000 of working 
     capital funds of the Department of Defense or funds made 
     available in this Act to the Department of Defense for 
     military functions (except military construction) between 
     such appropriations or funds or any subdivision thereof, to 
     be merged with and to be available for the same purposes, and 
     for the same time period, as the appropriation or fund to 
     which transferred:  Provided, That such authority to transfer 
     may not be used unless for higher priority items, based on 
     unforeseen military requirements, than those for which 
     originally appropriated and in no case where the item for 
     which funds are requested has been denied by the Congress:  
     Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense shall notify 
     the Congress promptly of all transfers made pursuant to this 
     authority or any other authority in this Act:  Provided 
     further, That no part of the funds in this Act shall be 
     available to prepare or present a request to the Committees 
     on Appropriations for reprogramming of funds, unless for 
     higher priority items, based on unforeseen military 
     requirements, than those for which originally appropriated 
     and in no case where the item for which reprogramming is 
     requested has been denied by the Congress:  Provided further, 
     That a request for multiple reprogrammings of funds using 
     authority provided in this section shall be made prior to 
     June 30, 2017:  Provided further, That transfers among 
     military personnel appropriations shall not be taken into 
     account for purposes of the limitation on the amount of funds 
     that may be transferred under this section.
       Sec. 8006. (a) With regard to the list of specific 
     programs, projects, and activities (and the dollar amounts 
     and adjustments to budget activities corresponding to such 
     programs, projects, and activities) contained in the tables 
     titled Explanation of Project Level Adjustments in the 
     explanatory statement regarding this Act, the obligation and 
     expenditure of amounts appropriated or otherwise made 
     available in this Act for those programs, projects, and 
     activities for which the amounts appropriated exceed the 
     amounts requested are hereby required by law to be carried 
     out in the manner provided by such tables to the same extent 
     as if the tables were included in the text of this Act.
       (b) Amounts specified in the referenced tables described in 
     subsection (a) shall not be treated as subdivisions of 
     appropriations for purposes of section 8005 of this Act:  
     Provided, That section 8005 shall apply when transfers

[[Page H7001]]

     of the amounts described in subsection (a) occur between 
     appropriation accounts.
       Sec. 8007. (a) Not later than 60 days after enactment of 
     this Act, the Department of Defense shall submit a report to 
     the congressional defense committees to establish the 
     baseline for application of reprogramming and transfer 
     authorities for fiscal year 2018:  Provided, That the report 
     shall include--
       (1) a table for each appropriation with a separate column 
     to display the President's budget request, adjustments made 
     by Congress, adjustments due to enacted rescissions, if 
     appropriate, and the fiscal year enacted level;
       (2) a delineation in the table for each appropriation both 
     by budget activity and program, project, and activity as 
     detailed in the Budget Appendix; and
       (3) an identification of items of special congressional 
     interest.
       (b) Notwithstanding section 8005 of this Act, none of the 
     funds provided in this Act shall be available for 
     reprogramming or transfer until the report identified in 
     subsection (a) is submitted to the congressional defense 
     committees, unless the Secretary of Defense certifies in 
     writing to the congressional defense committees that such 
     reprogramming or transfer is necessary as an emergency 
     requirement:  Provided, That this subsection shall not apply 
     to transfers from the following appropriations accounts:
       (1) ``Environmental Restoration, Army'';
       (2) ``Environmental Restoration, Navy'' ;
       (3) ``Environmental Restoration, Air Force'';
       (4) ``Environmental Restoration, Defense-Wide''
       (5) ``Environmental Restoration, Formerly Used Defense 
     Sites''; and
       (6) ``Drug Interdiction and Counter-drug Activities, 
     Defense''.

                          (transfer of funds)

       Sec. 8008.  During the current fiscal year, cash balances 
     in working capital funds of the Department of Defense 
     established pursuant to section 2208 of title 10, United 
     States Code, may be maintained in only such amounts as are 
     necessary at any time for cash disbursements to be made from 
     such funds:  Provided, That transfers may be made between 
     such funds:  Provided further, That transfers may be made 
     between working capital funds and the ``Foreign Currency 
     Fluctuations, Defense'' appropriation and the ``Operation and 
     Maintenance'' appropriation accounts in such amounts as may 
     be determined by the Secretary of Defense, with the approval 
     of the Office of Management and Budget, except that such 
     transfers may not be made unless the Secretary of Defense has 
     notified the Congress of the proposed transfer:  Provided 
     further, That except in amounts equal to the amounts 
     appropriated to working capital funds in this Act, no 
     obligations may be made against a working capital fund to 
     procure or increase the value of war reserve material 
     inventory, unless the Secretary of Defense has notified the 
     Congress prior to any such obligation.
       Sec. 8009.  Funds appropriated by this Act may not be used 
     to initiate a special access program without prior 
     notification 30 calendar days in advance to the congressional 
     defense committees.
       Sec. 8010.  None of the funds provided in this Act shall be 
     available to initiate: (1) a multiyear contract that employs 
     economic order quantity procurement in excess of $20,000,000 
     in any one year of the contract or that includes an unfunded 
     contingent liability in excess of $20,000,000; or (2) a 
     contract for advance procurement leading to a multiyear 
     contract that employs economic order quantity procurement in 
     excess of $20,000,000 in any one year, unless the 
     congressional defense committees have been notified at least 
     30 days in advance of the proposed contract award:  Provided, 
     That no part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
     be available to initiate a multiyear contract for which the 
     economic order quantity advance procurement is not funded at 
     least to the limits of the Government's liability:  Provided 
     further, That no part of any appropriation contained in this 
     Act shall be available to initiate multiyear procurement 
     contracts for any systems or component thereof if the value 
     of the multiyear contract would exceed $500,000,000 unless 
     specifically provided in this Act:  Provided further, That no 
     multiyear procurement contract can be terminated without 30-
     day prior notification to the congressional defense 
     committees:  Provided further, That the execution of 
     multiyear authority shall require the use of a present value 
     analysis to determine lowest cost compared to an annual 
     procurement:  Provided further, That none of the funds 
     provided in this Act may be used for a multiyear contract 
     executed after the date of the enactment of this Act unless 
     in the case of any such contract--
       (1) the Secretary of Defense has submitted to Congress a 
     budget request for full funding of units to be procured 
     through the contract and, in the case of a contract for 
     procurement of aircraft, that includes, for any aircraft unit 
     to be procured through the contract for which procurement 
     funds are requested in that budget request for production 
     beyond advance procurement activities in the fiscal year 
     covered by the budget, full funding of procurement of such 
     unit in that fiscal year;
       (2) cancellation provisions in the contract do not include 
     consideration of recurring manufacturing costs of the 
     contractor associated with the production of unfunded units 
     to be delivered under the contract;
       (3) the contract provides that payments to the contractor 
     under the contract shall not be made in advance of incurred 
     costs on funded units; and
       (4) the contract does not provide for a price adjustment 
     based on a failure to award a follow-on contract.
     Funds appropriated in title III of this Act may be used, 
     subject to section 2306b of title 10 , United States Code, 
     for multiyear procurement contracts as follows: V-22 Osprey 
     aircraft variants; up to 13 SSN Virginia Class Submarines and 
     Government-furnished equipment; and DDG-51 Arleigh Burke 
     class Flight III guided missile destroyers, the MK 41 
     Vertical Launching Systems, and associated Government-
     furnished systems and subsystems.
       Sec. 8011.  Within the funds appropriated for the operation 
     and maintenance of the Armed Forces, funds are hereby 
     appropriated pursuant to section 401 of title 10, United 
     States Code, for humanitarian and civic assistance costs 
     under chapter 20 of title 10, United States Code. Such funds 
     may also be obligated for humanitarian and civic assistance 
     costs incidental to authorized operations and pursuant to 
     authority granted in section 401 of chapter 20 of title 10, 
     United States Code, and these obligations shall be reported 
     as required by section 401(d) of title 10, United States 
     Code:  Provided, That funds available for operation and 
     maintenance shall be available for providing humanitarian and 
     similar assistance by using Civic Action Teams in the Trust 
     Territories of the Pacific Islands and freely associated 
     states of Micronesia, pursuant to the Compact of Free 
     Association as authorized by Public Law 99-239:  Provided 
     further, That upon a determination by the Secretary of the 
     Army that such action is beneficial for graduate medical 
     education programs conducted at Army medical facilities 
     located in Hawaii, the Secretary of the Army may authorize 
     the provision of medical services at such facilities and 
     transportation to such facilities, on a nonreimbursable 
     basis, for civilian patients from American Samoa, the 
     Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Marshall 
     Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, Palau, and Guam.
       Sec. 8012. (a) During the current fiscal year, the civilian 
     personnel of the Department of Defense may not be managed on 
     the basis of any end-strength, and the management of such 
     personnel during that fiscal year shall not be subject to any 
     constraint or limitation (known as an end-strength) on the 
     number of such personnel who may be employed on the last day 
     of such fiscal year.
       (b) The fiscal year 2019 budget request for the Department 
     of Defense as well as all justification material and other 
     documentation supporting the fiscal year 2019 Department of 
     Defense budget request shall be prepared and submitted to the 
     Congress as if subsections (a) and (b) of this provision were 
     effective with regard to fiscal year 2019.
       (c) As required by section 1107 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 10 
     U.S.C. 2358 note) civilian personnel at the Department of 
     Army Science and Technology Reinvention Laboratories may not 
     be managed on the basis of the Table of Distribution and 
     Allowances, and the management of the workforce strength 
     shall be done in a manner consistent with the budget 
     available with respect to such Laboratories.
       (d) Nothing in this section shall be construed to apply to 
     military (civilian) technicians.
       Sec. 8013.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     shall be used in any way, directly or indirectly, to 
     influence congressional action on any legislation or 
     appropriation matters pending before the Congress.
       Sec. 8014.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
     shall be available for the basic pay and allowances of any 
     member of the Army participating as a full-time student and 
     receiving benefits paid by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
     from the Department of Defense Education Benefits Fund when 
     time spent as a full-time student is credited toward 
     completion of a service commitment:  Provided, That this 
     section shall not apply to those members who have reenlisted 
     with this option prior to October 1, 1987:  Provided further, 
     That this section applies only to active components of the 
     Army.

                          (transfer of funds)

       Sec. 8015.  Funds appropriated in title III of this Act for 
     the Department of Defense Pilot Mentor-Protege Program may be 
     transferred to any other appropriation contained in this Act 
     solely for the purpose of implementing a Mentor-Protege 
     Program developmental assistance agreement pursuant to 
     section 831 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 1991 (Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note), 
     as amended, under the authority of this provision or any 
     other transfer authority contained in this Act.
       Sec. 8016.  None of the funds in this Act may be available 
     for the purchase by the Department of Defense (and its 
     departments and agencies) of welded shipboard anchor and 
     mooring chain 4 inches in diameter and under unless the 
     anchor and mooring chain are manufactured in the United 
     States from components which are substantially manufactured 
     in the United States:  Provided, That for the purpose of this 
     section, the term ``manufactured'' shall include cutting, 
     heat treating, quality control, testing of chain and welding 
     (including the forging and shot blasting process):  Provided 
     further, That for the purpose of this section substantially 
     all of the components of anchor and mooring

[[Page H7002]]

     chain shall be considered to be produced or manufactured in 
     the United States if the aggregate cost of the components 
     produced or manufactured in the United States exceeds the 
     aggregate cost of the components produced or manufactured 
     outside the United States:  Provided further, That when 
     adequate domestic supplies are not available to meet 
     Department of Defense requirements on a timely basis, the 
     Secretary of the service responsible for the procurement may 
     waive this restriction on a case-by-case basis by certifying 
     in writing to the Committees on Appropriations that such an 
     acquisition must be made in order to acquire capability for 
     national security purposes.
       Sec. 8017.  None of the funds available to the Department 
     of Defense may be used to demilitarize or dispose of M-1 
     Carbines, M-1 Garand rifles, M-14 rifles, .22 caliber rifles, 
     .30 caliber rifles, or M-1911 pistols, or to demilitarize or 
     destroy small arms ammunition or ammunition components that 
     are not otherwise prohibited from commercial sale under 
     Federal law, unless the small arms ammunition or ammunition 
     components are certified by the Secretary of the Army or 
     designee as unserviceable or unsafe for further use.
       Sec. 8018.  No more than $500,000 of the funds appropriated 
     or made available in this Act shall be used during a single 
     fiscal year for any single relocation of an organization, 
     unit, activity or function of the Department of Defense into 
     or within the National Capital Region:  Provided, That the 
     Secretary of Defense may waive this restriction on a case-by-
     case basis by certifying in writing to the congressional 
     defense committees that such a relocation is required in the 
     best interest of the Government.
       Sec. 8019.  Of the funds made available in this Act, 
     $20,000,000 shall be available for incentive payments 
     authorized by section 504 of the Indian Financing Act of 1974 
     (25 U.S.C. 1544):  Provided, That a prime contractor or a 
     subcontractor at any tier that makes a subcontract award to 
     any subcontractor or supplier as defined in section 1544 of 
     title 25, United States Code, or a small business owned and 
     controlled by an individual or individuals defined under 
     section 4221(9) of title 25, United States Code, shall be 
     considered a contractor for the purposes of being allowed 
     additional compensation under section 504 of the Indian 
     Financing Act of 1974 (25 U.S.C. 1544) whenever the prime 
     contract or subcontract amount is over $500,000 and involves 
     the expenditure of funds appropriated by an Act making 
     appropriations for the Department of Defense with respect to 
     any fiscal year:  Provided further, That notwithstanding 
     section 1906 of title 41, United States Code, this section 
     shall be applicable to any Department of Defense acquisition 
     of supplies or services, including any contract and any 
     subcontract at any tier for acquisition of commercial items 
     produced or manufactured, in whole or in part, by any 
     subcontractor or supplier defined in section 1544 of title 
     25, United States Code, or a small business owned and 
     controlled by an individual or individuals defined under 
     section 4221(9) of title 25, United States Code.
       Sec. 8020.  Funds appropriated by this Act for the Defense 
     Media Activity shall not be used for any national or 
     international political or psychological activities.
       Sec. 8021.  During the current fiscal year, the Department 
     of Defense is authorized to incur obligations of not to 
     exceed $350,000,000 for purposes specified in section 
     2350j(c) of title 10, United States Code, in anticipation of 
     receipt of contributions, only from the Government of Kuwait, 
     under that section:  Provided, That, upon receipt, such 
     contributions from the Government of Kuwait shall be credited 
     to the appropriations or fund which incurred such 
     obligations.
       Sec. 8022. (a) Of the funds made available in this Act, not 
     less than $43,100,000 shall be available for the Civil Air 
     Patrol Corporation, of which--
       (1) $30,800,000 shall be available from ``Operation and 
     Maintenance, Air Force'' to support Civil Air Patrol 
     Corporation operation and maintenance, readiness, counter-
     drug activities, and drug demand reduction activities 
     involving youth programs;
       (2) $10,600,000 shall be available from ``Aircraft 
     Procurement, Air Force''; and
       (3) $1,700,000 shall be available from ``Other Procurement, 
     Air Force'' for vehicle procurement.
       (b) The Secretary of the Air Force should waive 
     reimbursement for any funds used by the Civil Air Patrol for 
     counter-drug activities in support of Federal, State, and 
     local government agencies.
       Sec. 8023. (a) None of the funds appropriated in this Act 
     are available to establish a new Department of Defense 
     (department) federally funded research and development center 
     (FFRDC), either as a new entity, or as a separate entity 
     administrated by an organization managing another FFRDC, or 
     as a nonprofit membership corporation consisting of a 
     consortium of other FFRDCs and other nonprofit entities.
       (b) No member of a Board of Directors, Trustees, Overseers, 
     Advisory Group, Special Issues Panel, Visiting Committee, or 
     any similar entity of a defense FFRDC, and no paid consultant 
     to any defense FFRDC, except when acting in a technical 
     advisory capacity, may be compensated for his or her services 
     as a member of such entity, or as a paid consultant by more 
     than one FFRDC in a fiscal year:  Provided, That a member of 
     any such entity referred to previously in this subsection 
     shall be allowed travel expenses and per diem as authorized 
     under the Federal Joint Travel Regulations, when engaged in 
     the performance of membership duties.
       (c) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
     funds available to the department from any source during the 
     current fiscal year may be used by a defense FFRDC, through a 
     fee or other payment mechanism, for construction of new 
     buildings not located on a military installation, for payment 
     of cost sharing for projects funded by Government grants, for 
     absorption of contract overruns, or for certain charitable 
     contributions, not to include employee participation in 
     community service and/or development.
       (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, of the 
     funds available to the department during fiscal year 2018, 
     not more than 6,000 staff years of technical effort (staff 
     years) may be funded for defense FFRDCs:  Provided, That, of 
     the specific amount referred to previously in this 
     subsection, not more than 1,180 staff years may be funded for 
     the defense studies and analysis FFRDCs:  Provided further, 
     That this subsection shall not apply to staff years funded in 
     the National Intelligence Program (NIP) and the Military 
     Intelligence Program (MIP).
       (e) The Secretary of Defense shall, with the submission of 
     the department's fiscal year 2019 budget request, submit a 
     report presenting the specific amounts of staff years of 
     technical effort to be allocated for each defense FFRDC 
     during that fiscal year and the associated budget estimates.
       (f) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the 
     total amount appropriated in this Act for FFRDCs is hereby 
     reduced by $210,000,000.
       Sec. 8024.  None of the funds appropriated or made 
     available in this Act shall be used to procure carbon, alloy, 
     or armor steel plate for use in any Government-owned facility 
     or property under the control of the Department of Defense 
     which were not melted and rolled in the United States or 
     Canada:  Provided, That these procurement restrictions shall 
     apply to any and all Federal Supply Class 9515, American 
     Society of Testing and Materials (ASTM) or American Iron and 
     Steel Institute (AISI) specifications of carbon, alloy or 
     armor steel plate:  Provided further, That the Secretary of 
     the military department responsible for the procurement may 
     waive this restriction on a case-by-case basis by certifying 
     in writing to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
     of Representatives and the Senate that adequate domestic 
     supplies are not available to meet Department of Defense 
     requirements on a timely basis and that such an acquisition 
     must be made in order to acquire capability for national 
     security purposes:  Provided further, That these restrictions 
     shall not apply to contracts which are in being as of the 
     date of the enactment of this Act.
       Sec. 8025.  For the purposes of this Act, the term 
     ``congressional defense committees'' means the Armed Services 
     Committee of the House of Representatives, the Armed Services 
     Committee of the Senate, the Subcommittee on Defense of the 
     Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, and the 
     Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on Appropriations of 
     the House of Representatives.
       Sec. 8026.  During the current fiscal year, the Department 
     of Defense may acquire the modification, depot maintenance 
     and repair of aircraft, vehicles and vessels as well as the 
     production of components and other Defense-related articles, 
     through competition between Department of Defense depot 
     maintenance activities and private firms:  Provided, That the 
     Senior Acquisition Executive of the military department or 
     Defense Agency concerned, with power of delegation, shall 
     certify that successful bids include comparable estimates of 
     all direct and indirect costs for both public and private 
     bids:  Provided further, That Office of Management and Budget 
     Circular A-76 shall not apply to competitions conducted under 
     this section.
       Sec. 8027. (a)(1) If the Secretary of Defense, after 
     consultation with the United States Trade Representative, 
     determines that a foreign country which is party to an 
     agreement described in paragraph (2) has violated the terms 
     of the agreement by discriminating against certain types of 
     products produced in the United States that are covered by 
     the agreement, the Secretary of Defense shall rescind the 
     Secretary's blanket waiver of the Buy American Act with 
     respect to such types of products produced in that foreign 
     country.
       (2) An agreement referred to in paragraph (1) is any 
     reciprocal defense procurement memorandum of understanding, 
     between the United States and a foreign country pursuant to 
     which the Secretary of Defense has prospectively waived the 
     Buy American Act for certain products in that country.
       (b) The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Congress a 
     report on the amount of Department of Defense purchases from 
     foreign entities in fiscal year 2018. Such report shall 
     separately indicate the dollar value of items for which the 
     Buy American Act was waived pursuant to any agreement 
     described in subsection (a)(2), the Trade Agreement Act of 
     1979 (19 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.), or any international agreement 
     to which the United States is a party.
       (c) For purposes of this section, the term Buy American Act 
     means chapter 83 of title 41, United States Code.
       Sec. 8028.  During the current fiscal year, amounts 
     contained in the Department of Defense Overseas Military 
     Facility Investment Recovery Account established by section 
     2921(c)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act of 1991 
     (Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note) shall be available 
     until expended

[[Page H7003]]

     for the payments specified by section 2921(c)(2) of that Act.
       Sec. 8029. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     the Secretary of the Air Force may convey at no cost to the 
     Air Force, without consideration, to Indian tribes located in 
     the States of Nevada, Idaho, North Dakota, South Dakota, 
     Montana, Oregon, Minnesota, and Washington relocatable 
     military housing units located at Grand Forks Air Force Base, 
     Malmstrom Air Force Base, Mountain Home Air Force Base, 
     Ellsworth Air Force Base, and Minot Air Force Base that are 
     excess to the needs of the Air Force.
       (b) The Secretary of the Air Force shall convey, at no cost 
     to the Air Force, military housing units under subsection (a) 
     in accordance with the request for such units that are 
     submitted to the Secretary by the Operation Walking Shield 
     Program on behalf of Indian tribes located in the States of 
     Nevada, Idaho, North Dakota, South Dakota, Montana, Oregon, 
     Minnesota, and Washington. Any such conveyance shall be 
     subject to the condition that the housing units shall be 
     removed within a reasonable period of time, as determined by 
     the Secretary.
       (c) The Operation Walking Shield Program shall resolve any 
     conflicts among requests of Indian tribes for housing units 
     under subsection (a) before submitting requests to the 
     Secretary of the Air Force under subsection (b).
       (d) In this section, the term Indian tribe means any 
     recognized Indian tribe included on the current list 
     published by the Secretary of the Interior under section 104 
     of the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe Act of 1994 (Public 
     Law 103-454; 108 Stat. 4792; 25 U.S.C. 479a-1).
       Sec. 8030.  During the current fiscal year, appropriations 
     which are available to the Department of Defense for 
     operation and maintenance may be used to purchase items 
     having an investment item unit cost of not more than 
     $250,000.
       Sec. 8031.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     may be used to--
       (1) disestablish, or prepare to disestablish, a Senior 
     Reserve Officers' Training Corps program in accordance with 
     Department of Defense Instruction Number 1215.08, dated June 
     26, 2006; or
       (2) close, downgrade from host to extension center, or 
     place on probation a Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps 
     program in accordance with the information paper of the 
     Department of the Army titled ``Army Senior Reserve Officers' 
     Training Corps (SROTC) Program Review and Criteria'', dated 
     January 27, 2014.
       Sec. 8032.  The Secretary of Defense shall issue 
     regulations to prohibit the sale of any tobacco or tobacco-
     related products in military resale outlets in the United 
     States, its territories and possessions at a price below the 
     most competitive price in the local community:  Provided, 
     That such regulations shall direct that the prices of tobacco 
     or tobacco-related products in overseas military retail 
     outlets shall be within the range of prices established for 
     military retail system stores located in the United States.
       Sec. 8033. (a) During the current fiscal year, none of the 
     appropriations or funds available to the Department of 
     Defense Working Capital Funds shall be used for the purchase 
     of an investment item for the purpose of acquiring a new 
     inventory item for sale or anticipated sale during the 
     current fiscal year or a subsequent fiscal year to customers 
     of the Department of Defense Working Capital Funds if such an 
     item would not have been chargeable to the Department of 
     Defense Business Operations Fund during fiscal year 1994 and 
     if the purchase of such an investment item would be 
     chargeable during the current fiscal year to appropriations 
     made to the Department of Defense for procurement.
       (b) The fiscal year 2019 budget request for the Department 
     of Defense as well as all justification material and other 
     documentation supporting the fiscal year 2019 Department of 
     Defense budget shall be prepared and submitted to the 
     Congress on the basis that any equipment which was classified 
     as an end item and funded in a procurement appropriation 
     contained in this Act shall be budgeted for in a proposed 
     fiscal year 2019 procurement appropriation and not in the 
     supply management business area or any other area or category 
     of the Department of Defense Working Capital Funds.
       Sec. 8034.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act for 
     programs of the Central Intelligence Agency shall remain 
     available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, 
     except for funds appropriated for the Reserve for 
     Contingencies, which shall remain available until September 
     30, 2019:  Provided, That funds appropriated, transferred, or 
     otherwise credited to the Central Intelligence Agency Central 
     Services Working Capital Fund during this or any prior or 
     subsequent fiscal year shall remain available until expended: 
      Provided further, That any funds appropriated or transferred 
     to the Central Intelligence Agency for advanced research and 
     development acquisition, for agent operations, and for covert 
     action programs authorized by the President under section 503 
     of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3093) shall 
     remain available until September 30, 2019.
       Sec. 8035.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     funds made available in this Act and hereafter for the 
     Defense Intelligence Agency may be used for the design, 
     development, and deployment of General Defense Intelligence 
     Program intelligence communications and intelligence 
     information systems for the Services, the Unified and 
     Specified Commands, and the component commands.
       Sec. 8036.  Of the funds appropriated to the Department of 
     Defense under the heading ``Operation and Maintenance, 
     Defense-Wide'', not less than $12,000,000 shall be made 
     available only for the mitigation of environmental impacts, 
     including training and technical assistance to tribes, 
     related administrative support, the gathering of information, 
     documenting of environmental damage, and developing a system 
     for prioritization of mitigation and cost to complete 
     estimates for mitigation, on Indian lands resulting from 
     Department of Defense activities.
       Sec. 8037. (a) None of the funds appropriated in this Act 
     may be expended by an entity of the Department of Defense 
     unless the entity, in expending the funds, complies with the 
     Buy American Act. For purposes of this subsection, the term 
     Buy American Act means chapter 83 of title 41, United States 
     Code.
       (b) If the Secretary of Defense determines that a person 
     has been convicted of intentionally affixing a label bearing 
     a ``Made in America'' inscription to any product sold in or 
     shipped to the United States that is not made in America, the 
     Secretary shall determine, in accordance with section 2410f 
     of title 10, United States Code, whether the person should be 
     debarred from contracting with the Department of Defense.
       (c) In the case of any equipment or products purchased with 
     appropriations provided under this Act, it is the sense of 
     the Congress that any entity of the Department of Defense, in 
     expending the appropriation, purchase only American-made 
     equipment and products, provided that American-made equipment 
     and products are cost-competitive, quality competitive, and 
     available in a timely fashion.
       Sec. 8038. (a) Except as provided in subsections (b) and 
     (c), none of the funds made available by this Act may be 
     used--
       (1) to establish a field operating agency; or
       (2) to pay the basic pay of a member of the Armed Forces or 
     civilian employee of the department who is transferred or 
     reassigned from a headquarters activity if the member or 
     employee's place of duty remains at the location of that 
     headquarters.
       (b) The Secretary of Defense or Secretary of a military 
     department may waive the limitations in subsection (a), on a 
     case-by-case basis, if the Secretary determines, and 
     certifies to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate that the granting of the 
     waiver will reduce the personnel requirements or the 
     financial requirements of the department.
       (c) This section does not apply to--
       (1) field operating agencies funded within the National 
     Intelligence Program;
       (2) an Army field operating agency established to 
     eliminate, mitigate, or counter the effects of improvised 
     explosive devices, and, as determined by the Secretary of the 
     Army, other similar threats;
       (3) an Army field operating agency established to improve 
     the effectiveness and efficiencies of biometric activities 
     and to integrate common biometric technologies throughout the 
     Department of Defense; or
       (4) an Air Force field operating agency established to 
     administer the Air Force Mortuary Affairs Program and 
     Mortuary Operations for the Department of Defense and 
     authorized Federal entities.
       Sec. 8039. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
     shall be available to convert to contractor performance an 
     activity or function of the Department of Defense that, on or 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act, is performed by 
     Department of Defense civilian employees unless--
       (1) the conversion is based on the result of a public-
     private competition that includes a most efficient and cost 
     effective organization plan developed by such activity or 
     function;
       (2) the Competitive Sourcing Official determines that, over 
     all performance periods stated in the solicitation of offers 
     for performance of the activity or function, the cost of 
     performance of the activity or function by a contractor would 
     be less costly to the Department of Defense by an amount that 
     equals or exceeds the lesser of--
       (A) 10 percent of the most efficient organization's 
     personnel-related costs for performance of that activity or 
     function by Federal employees; or
       (B) $10,000,000; and
       (3) the contractor does not receive an advantage for a 
     proposal that would reduce costs for the Department of 
     Defense by--
       (A) not making an employer-sponsored health insurance plan 
     available to the workers who are to be employed in the 
     performance of that activity or function under the contract; 
     or
       (B) offering to such workers an employer-sponsored health 
     benefits plan that requires the employer to contribute less 
     towards the premium or subscription share than the amount 
     that is paid by the Department of Defense for health benefits 
     for civilian employees under chapter 89 of title 5, United 
     States Code.
       (b)(1) The Department of Defense, without regard to 
     subsection (a) of this section or subsection (a), (b), or (c) 
     of section 2461 of title 10, United States Code, and 
     notwithstanding any administrative regulation, requirement, 
     or policy to the contrary shall have full authority to enter 
     into a contract for the performance of any commercial or 
     industrial type function of the Department of Defense that--

[[Page H7004]]

       (A) is included on the procurement list established 
     pursuant to section 2 of the Javits-Wagner-O'Day Act (section 
     8503 of title 41, United States Code);
       (B) is planned to be converted to performance by a 
     qualified nonprofit agency for the blind or by a qualified 
     nonprofit agency for other severely handicapped individuals 
     in accordance with that Act; or
       (C) is planned to be converted to performance by a 
     qualified firm under at least 51 percent ownership by an 
     Indian tribe, as defined in section 4(e) of the Indian Self-
     Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 
     450b(e)), or a Native Hawaiian Organization, as defined in 
     section 8(a)(15) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
     637(a)(15)).
       (2) This section shall not apply to depot contracts or 
     contracts for depot maintenance as provided in sections 2469 
     and 2474 of title 10, United States Code.
       (c) The conversion of any activity or function of the 
     Department of Defense under the authority provided by this 
     section shall be credited toward any competitive or 
     outsourcing goal, target, or measurement that may be 
     established by statute, regulation, or policy and is deemed 
     to be awarded under the authority of, and in compliance with, 
     subsection (h) of section 2304 of title 10, United States 
     Code, for the competition or outsourcing of commercial 
     activities.

                             (rescissions)

       Sec. 8040.  Of the funds appropriated in Department of 
     Defense Appropriations Acts, the following funds are hereby 
     rescinded from the following accounts and programs in the 
     specified amounts:  Provided, That no amounts may be 
     rescinded from amounts that were designated by the Congress 
     for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
     or as an emergency requirement pursuant to the Concurrent 
     Resolution on the Budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended:
       ``Aircraft Procurement, Navy'', 2016/2018, $274,000,000;
       ``Aircraft Procurement, Air Force'', 2016/2018, 
     $82,700,000;
       ``Missile Procurement, Army'', 2017/2019, $19,319,000;
       ``Procurement of Weapons and Tracked Combat Vehicles, 
     Army'', 2017/2019, $9,764,000;
       ``Other Procurement, Army'', 2017/2019, $10,000,000;
       ``Aircraft Procurement, Navy'', 2017/2019, $105,600,000;
       ``Weapons Procurement, Navy'', 2017/2019, $54,122,000;
       ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy'', 2017/2021, 
     $45,116,000;
       ``Aircraft Procurement, Air Force'', 2017/2019, 
     $63,293,000;
       ``Missile Procurement, Air Force'', 2017/2019, $31,639,000;
       ``Space Procurement, Air Force'', 2017/2019, $15,000,000;
       ``Other Procurement, Air Force'', 2017/2019, $105,000,000;
       ``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy'', 2017/
     2018, $34,128,000;
       ``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force'', 
     2017/2018, $41,700,000.
       Sec. 8041.  None of the funds available in this Act may be 
     used to reduce the authorized positions for military 
     technicians (dual status) of the Army National Guard, Air 
     National Guard, Army Reserve and Air Force Reserve for the 
     purpose of applying any administratively imposed civilian 
     personnel ceiling, freeze, or reduction on military 
     technicians (dual status), unless such reductions are a 
     direct result of a reduction in military force structure.
       Sec. 8042.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available in this Act may be obligated or expended for 
     assistance to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea 
     unless specifically appropriated for that purpose.
       Sec. 8043.  Funds appropriated in this Act for operation 
     and maintenance of the Military Departments, Combatant 
     Commands and Defense Agencies shall be available for 
     reimbursement of pay, allowances and other expenses which 
     would otherwise be incurred against appropriations for the 
     National Guard and Reserve when members of the National Guard 
     and Reserve provide intelligence or counterintelligence 
     support to Combatant Commands, Defense Agencies and Joint 
     Intelligence Activities, including the activities and 
     programs included within the National Intelligence Program 
     and the Military Intelligence Program:  Provided, That 
     nothing in this section authorizes deviation from established 
     Reserve and National Guard personnel and training procedures.
       Sec. 8044. (a) None of the funds available to the 
     Department of Defense for any fiscal year for drug 
     interdiction or counter-drug activities may be transferred to 
     any other department or agency of the United States except as 
     specifically provided in an appropriations law.
       (b) None of the funds available to the Central Intelligence 
     Agency for any fiscal year for drug interdiction or counter-
     drug activities may be transferred to any other department or 
     agency of the United States except as specifically provided 
     in an appropriations law.
       Sec. 8045.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may 
     be used for the procurement of ball and roller bearings other 
     than those produced by a domestic source and of domestic 
     origin:  Provided, That the Secretary of the military 
     department responsible for such procurement may waive this 
     restriction on a case-by-case basis by certifying in writing 
     to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate, that adequate domestic 
     supplies are not available to meet Department of Defense 
     requirements on a timely basis and that such an acquisition 
     must be made in order to acquire capability for national 
     security purposes:  Provided further, That this restriction 
     shall not apply to the purchase of ``commercial items'', as 
     defined by section 103 of title 41, United States Code, 
     except that the restriction shall apply to ball or roller 
     bearings purchased as end items.
       Sec. 8046.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     for Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle service competitive 
     procurements may be used unless the competitive procurements 
     are open for award to all certified providers of Evolved 
     Expendable Launch Vehicle-class systems:  Provided, That the 
     award shall be made to the provider that offers the best 
     value to the government.
       Sec. 8047.  In addition to the amounts appropriated or 
     otherwise made available elsewhere in this Act, $44,000,000 
     is hereby appropriated to the Department of Defense:  
     Provided, That upon the determination of the Secretary of 
     Defense that it shall serve the national interest, the 
     Secretary shall make grants in the amounts specified as 
     follows: $20,000,000 to the United Service Organizations and 
     $24,000,000 to the Red Cross.
       Sec. 8048.  None of the funds in this Act may be used to 
     purchase any supercomputer which is not manufactured in the 
     United States, unless the Secretary of Defense certifies to 
     the congressional defense committees that such an acquisition 
     must be made in order to acquire capability for national 
     security purposes that is not available from United States 
     manufacturers.
       Sec. 8049.  Notwithstanding any other provision in this 
     Act, the Small Business Innovation Research program and the 
     Small Business Technology Transfer program set-asides shall 
     be taken proportionally from all programs, projects, or 
     activities to the extent they contribute to the extramural 
     budget.
       Sec. 8050.  None of the funds available to the Department 
     of Defense under this Act shall be obligated or expended to 
     pay a contractor under a contract with the Department of 
     Defense for costs of any amount paid by the contractor to an 
     employee when--
       (1) such costs are for a bonus or otherwise in excess of 
     the normal salary paid by the contractor to the employee; and
       (2) such bonus is part of restructuring costs associated 
     with a business combination.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 8051.  During the current fiscal year, no more than 
     $30,000,000 of appropriations made in this Act under the 
     heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'' may be 
     transferred to appropriations available for the pay of 
     military personnel, to be merged with, and to be available 
     for the same time period as the appropriations to which 
     transferred, to be used in support of such personnel in 
     connection with support and services for eligible 
     organizations and activities outside the Department of 
     Defense pursuant to section 2012 of title 10, United States 
     Code.
       Sec. 8052.  During the current fiscal year, in the case of 
     an appropriation account of the Department of Defense for 
     which the period of availability for obligation has expired 
     or which has closed under the provisions of section 1552 of 
     title 31, United States Code, and which has a negative 
     unliquidated or unexpended balance, an obligation or an 
     adjustment of an obligation may be charged to any current 
     appropriation account for the same purpose as the expired or 
     closed account if--
       (1) the obligation would have been properly chargeable 
     (except as to amount) to the expired or closed account before 
     the end of the period of availability or closing of that 
     account;
       (2) the obligation is not otherwise properly chargeable to 
     any current appropriation account of the Department of 
     Defense; and
       (3) in the case of an expired account, the obligation is 
     not chargeable to a current appropriation of the Department 
     of Defense under the provisions of section 1405(b)(8) of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991, 
     Public Law 101-510, as amended (31 U.S.C. 1551 note):  
     Provided, That in the case of an expired account, if 
     subsequent review or investigation discloses that there was 
     not in fact a negative unliquidated or unexpended balance in 
     the account, any charge to a current account under the 
     authority of this section shall be reversed and recorded 
     against the expired account:  Provided further, That the 
     total amount charged to a current appropriation under this 
     section may not exceed an amount equal to 1 percent of the 
     total appropriation for that account.
       Sec. 8053. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     the Chief of the National Guard Bureau may permit the use of 
     equipment of the National Guard Distance Learning Project by 
     any person or entity on a space-available, reimbursable 
     basis. The Chief of the National Guard Bureau shall establish 
     the amount of reimbursement for such use on a case-by-case 
     basis.
       (b) Amounts collected under subsection (a) shall be 
     credited to funds available for the National Guard Distance 
     Learning Project and be available to defray the costs 
     associated with the use of equipment of the project under 
     that subsection. Such funds shall be available for such 
     purposes without fiscal year limitation.
       Sec. 8054.  None of the funds available to the Department 
     of Defense may be obligated

[[Page H7005]]

     to modify command and control relationships to give Fleet 
     Forces Command operational and administrative control of 
     United States Navy forces assigned to the Pacific fleet:  
     Provided, That the command and control relationships which 
     existed on October 1, 2004, shall remain in force until a 
     written modification has been proposed to the House and 
     Senate Appropriations Committees:  Provided further, That the 
     proposed modification may be implemented 30 days after the 
     notification unless an objection is received from either the 
     House or Senate Appropriations Committees:  Provided further, 
     That any proposed modification shall not preclude the ability 
     of the commander of United States Pacific Command to meet 
     operational requirements.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 8055.  Of the funds appropriated in this Act under the 
     heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'', 
     $25,000,000 (increased by $10,000,000) shall be for continued 
     implementation and expansion of the Sexual Assault Special 
     Victims' Counsel Program:  Provided, That the funds are made 
     available for transfer to the Department of the Army, the 
     Department of the Navy, and the Department of the Air Force:  
     Provided further, That funds transferred shall be merged with 
     and available for the same purposes and for the same time 
     period as the appropriations to which the funds are 
     transferred:  Provided further, That this transfer authority 
     is in addition to any other transfer authority provided in 
     this Act.
       Sec. 8056.  None of the funds appropriated in title IV of 
     this Act may be used to procure end-items for delivery to 
     military forces for operational training, operational use or 
     inventory requirements:  Provided, That this restriction does 
     not apply to end-items used in development, prototyping, and 
     test activities preceding and leading to acceptance for 
     operational use:  Provided further, That this restriction 
     does not apply to programs funded within the National 
     Intelligence Program:  Provided further, That the Secretary 
     of Defense may waive this restriction on a case-by-case basis 
     by certifying in writing to the Committees on Appropriations 
     of the House of Representatives and the Senate that it is in 
     the national security interest to do so.
       Sec. 8057. (a) The Secretary of Defense may, on a case-by-
     case basis, waive with respect to a foreign country each 
     limitation on the procurement of defense items from foreign 
     sources provided in law if the Secretary determines that the 
     application of the limitation with respect to that country 
     would invalidate cooperative programs entered into between 
     the Department of Defense and the foreign country, or would 
     invalidate reciprocal trade agreements for the procurement of 
     defense items entered into under section 2531 of title 10, 
     United States Code, and the country does not discriminate 
     against the same or similar defense items produced in the 
     United States for that country.
       (b) Subsection (a) applies with respect to--
       (1) contracts and subcontracts entered into on or after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act; and
       (2) options for the procurement of items that are exercised 
     after such date under contracts that are entered into before 
     such date if the option prices are adjusted for any reason 
     other than the application of a waiver granted under 
     subsection (a).
       (c) Subsection (a) does not apply to a limitation regarding 
     construction of public vessels, ball and roller bearings, 
     food, and clothing or textile materials as defined by section 
     XI (chapters 50-65) of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the 
     United States and products classified under headings 4010, 
     4202, 4203, 6401 through 6406, 6505, 7019, 7218 through 7229, 
     7304.41 through 7304.49, 7306.40, 7502 through 7508, 8105, 
     8108, 8109, 8211, 8215, and 9404.
       Sec. 8058.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available by this or other Department of Defense 
     Appropriations Acts may be obligated or expended for the 
     purpose of performing repairs or maintenance to military 
     family housing units of the Department of Defense, including 
     areas in such military family housing units that may be used 
     for the purpose of conducting official Department of Defense 
     business.
       Sec. 8059.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     funds appropriated in this Act under the heading ``Research, 
     Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide'' for any new 
     start advanced concept technology demonstration project or 
     joint capability demonstration project may only be obligated 
     45 days after a report, including a description of the 
     project, the planned acquisition and transition strategy and 
     its estimated annual and total cost, has been provided in 
     writing to the congressional defense committees:  Provided, 
     That the Secretary of Defense may waive this restriction on a 
     case-by-case basis by certifying to the congressional defense 
     committees that it is in the national interest to do so.
       Sec. 8060.  The Secretary of Defense shall continue to 
     provide a classified quarterly report to the House and Senate 
     Appropriations Committees, Subcommittees on Defense on 
     certain matters as directed in the classified annex 
     accompanying this Act.
       Sec. 8061.  Notwithstanding section 12310(b) of title 10, 
     United States Code, a Reserve who is a member of the National 
     Guard serving on full-time National Guard duty under section 
     502(f) of title 32, United States Code, may perform duties in 
     support of the ground-based elements of the National 
     Ballistic Missile Defense System.
       Sec. 8062.  None of the funds provided in this Act may be 
     used to transfer to any nongovernmental entity ammunition 
     held by the Department of Defense that has a center-fire 
     cartridge and a United States military nomenclature 
     designation of ``armor penetrator'', ``armor piercing (AP)'', 
     ``armor piercing incendiary (API)'', or ``armor-piercing 
     incendiary tracer (API-T)'', except to an entity performing 
     demilitarization services for the Department of Defense under 
     a contract that requires the entity to demonstrate to the 
     satisfaction of the Department of Defense that armor piercing 
     projectiles are either:
       (1) rendered incapable of reuse by the demilitarization 
     process; or
       (2) used to manufacture ammunition pursuant to a contract 
     with the Department of Defense or the manufacture of 
     ammunition for export pursuant to a License for Permanent 
     Export of Unclassified Military Articles issued by the 
     Department of State.
       Sec. 8063.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
     Chief of the National Guard Bureau, or his designee, may 
     waive payment of all or part of the consideration that 
     otherwise would be required under section 2667 of title 10, 
     United States Code, in the case of a lease of personal 
     property for a period not in excess of 1 year to any 
     organization specified in section 508(d) of title 32, United 
     States Code, or any other youth, social, or fraternal 
     nonprofit organization as may be approved by the Chief of the 
     National Guard Bureau, or his designee, on a case-by-case 
     basis.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 8064.  Of the amounts appropriated in this Act under 
     the heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', $66,881,780 
     shall remain available until expended:  Provided, That, 
     notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of 
     Defense is authorized to transfer such funds to other 
     activities of the Federal Government:  Provided further, That 
     the Secretary of Defense is authorized to enter into and 
     carry out contracts for the acquisition of real property, 
     construction, personal services, and operations related to 
     projects carrying out the purposes of this section:  Provided 
     further, That contracts entered into under the authority of 
     this section may provide for such indemnification as the 
     Secretary determines to be necessary:  Provided further, That 
     projects authorized by this section shall comply with 
     applicable Federal, State, and local law to the maximum 
     extent consistent with the national security, as determined 
     by the Secretary of Defense.
       Sec. 8065. (a) None of the funds appropriated in this or 
     any other Act may be used to take any action to modify--
       (1) the appropriations account structure for the National 
     Intelligence Program budget, including through the creation 
     of a new appropriation or new appropriation account;
       (2) how the National Intelligence Program budget request is 
     presented in the unclassified P-1, R-1, and O-1 documents 
     supporting the Department of Defense budget request;
       (3) the process by which the National Intelligence Program 
     appropriations are apportioned to the executing agencies; or
       (4) the process by which the National Intelligence Program 
     appropriations are allotted, obligated and disbursed.
       (b) Nothing in section (a) shall be construed to prohibit 
     the merger of programs or changes to the National 
     Intelligence Program budget at or below the Expenditure 
     Center level, provided such change is otherwise in accordance 
     with paragraphs (a)(1)-(3).
       (c) The Director of National Intelligence and the Secretary 
     of Defense may jointly, only for the purposes of achieving 
     auditable financial statements and improving fiscal 
     reporting, study and develop detailed proposals for 
     alternative financial management processes. Such study shall 
     include a comprehensive counterintelligence risk assessment 
     to ensure that none of the alternative processes will 
     adversely affect counterintelligence.
       (d) Upon development of the detailed proposals defined 
     under subsection (c), the Director of National Intelligence 
     and the Secretary of Defense shall--
       (1) provide the proposed alternatives to all affected 
     agencies;
       (2) receive certification from all affected agencies 
     attesting that the proposed alternatives will help achieve 
     auditability, improve fiscal reporting, and will not 
     adversely affect counterintelligence; and
       (3) not later than 30 days after receiving all necessary 
     certifications under paragraph (2), present the proposed 
     alternatives and certifications to the congressional defense 
     and intelligence committees.
       Sec. 8066.  In addition to amounts provided elsewhere in 
     this Act, $5,000,000 (increased by $5,000,000) is hereby 
     appropriated to the Department of Defense, to remain 
     available for obligation until expended:  Provided, That 
     notwithstanding any other provision of law, that upon the 
     determination of the Secretary of Defense that it shall serve 
     the national interest, these funds shall be available only 
     for a grant to the Fisher House Foundation, Inc., only for 
     the construction and furnishing of additional Fisher Houses 
     to meet the needs of military family members when confronted 
     with the illness or hospitalization of an eligible military 
     beneficiary.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 8067.  Of the amounts appropriated in this Act under 
     the headings ``Procurement, Defense-Wide'' and ``Research, 
     Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide'', 
     $705,800,000 shall be for the Israeli Cooperative Programs:  
     Provided, That of this

[[Page H7006]]

     amount, $92,000,000 shall be for the Secretary of Defense to 
     provide to the Government of Israel for the procurement of 
     the Iron Dome defense system to counter short-range rocket 
     threats, subject to the U.S.-Israel Iron Dome Procurement 
     Agreement, as amended; $221,500,000 shall be for the Short 
     Range Ballistic Missile Defense (SRBMD) program, including 
     cruise missile defense research and development under the 
     SRBMD program, of which $120,000,000 shall be for co-
     production activities of SRBMD missiles in the United States 
     and in Israel to meet Israel's defense requirements 
     consistent with each nation's laws, regulations, and 
     procedures, subject to the U.S.-Israeli co-production 
     agreement for SRBMD, as amended; $205,000,000 shall be for an 
     upper-tier component to the Israeli Missile Defense 
     Architecture, of which $120,000,000 shall be for co-
     production activities of Arrow 3 Upper Tier missiles in the 
     United States and in Israel to meet Israel's defense 
     requirements consistent with each nation's laws, regulations, 
     and procedures, subject to the U.S.-Israeli co-production 
     agreement for Arrow 3 Upper Tier, as amended; $105,000,000 
     shall be for testing of the upper-tier component to the 
     Israeli Missile Defense Architecture in the United States; 
     and $82,300,000 shall be for the Arrow System Improvement 
     Program including development of a long range, ground and 
     airborne, detection suite:  Provided further, That the 
     transfer authority provided under this provision is in 
     addition to any other transfer authority contained in this 
     Act.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 8068.  Of the amounts appropriated in this Act under 
     the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy'', 
     $117,542,000 shall be available until September 30, 2018, to 
     fund prior year shipbuilding cost increases:  Provided, That 
     upon enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy shall 
     transfer funds to the following appropriations in the amounts 
     specified:  Provided further, That the amounts transferred 
     shall be merged with and be available for the same purposes 
     as the appropriations to which transferred to:
       (1) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
     Navy'', 2012/2018: Carrier Replacement Program $20,000,000;
       (2) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
     Navy'', 2008/2018: DDG-51 Destroyer $19,436,000;
       (3) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
     Navy'', 2012/2018: Littoral Combat Ship $6,394,000;
       (4) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
     Navy'', 2012/2018: LHA Replacement $14,200,000;
       (5) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
     Navy'', 2013/2018: DDG-51 Destroyer $31,941,000;
       (6) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
     Navy'', 2014/2018: Litoral Combat Ship $20,471,000; and
       (7) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
     Navy'', 2015/2018: LCAC $5,100,000.
       Sec. 8069.  Funds appropriated by this Act, or made 
     available by the transfer of funds in this Act, for 
     intelligence activities are deemed to be specifically 
     authorized by the Congress for purposes of section 504 of the 
     National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3094) during fiscal 
     year 2018 until the enactment of the Intelligence 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018.
       Sec. 8070.  None of the funds provided in this Act shall be 
     available for obligation or expenditure through a 
     reprogramming of funds that creates or initiates a new 
     program, project, or activity unless such program, project, 
     or activity must be undertaken immediately in the interest of 
     national security and only after written prior notification 
     to the congressional defense committees.
       Sec. 8071.  The budget of the President for fiscal year 
     2018 submitted to the Congress pursuant to section 1105 of 
     title 31, United States Code, shall include separate budget 
     justification documents for costs of United States Armed 
     Forces' participation in contingency operations for the 
     Military Personnel accounts, the Operation and Maintenance 
     accounts, the Procurement accounts, and the Research, 
     Development, Test and Evaluation accounts:  Provided, That 
     these documents shall include a description of the funding 
     requested for each contingency operation, for each military 
     service, to include all Active and Reserve components, and 
     for each appropriations account:  Provided further, That 
     these documents shall include estimated costs for each 
     element of expense or object class, a reconciliation of 
     increases and decreases for each contingency operation, and 
     programmatic data including, but not limited to, troop 
     strength for each Active and Reserve component, and estimates 
     of the major weapons systems deployed in support of each 
     contingency:  Provided further, That these documents shall 
     include budget exhibits OP-5 and OP-32 (as defined in the 
     Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation) for 
     all contingency operations for the budget year and the two 
     preceding fiscal years.
       Sec. 8072.  None of the funds in this Act may be used for 
     research, development, test, evaluation, procurement or 
     deployment of nuclear armed interceptors of a missile defense 
     system.
       Sec. 8073.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this 
     Act, to reflect savings due to favorable foreign exchange 
     rates, the total amount appropriated in this Act is hereby 
     reduced by $289,000,000.
       Sec. 8074.  None of the funds appropriated or made 
     available in this Act shall be used to reduce or disestablish 
     the operation of the 53rd Weather Reconnaissance Squadron of 
     the Air Force Reserve, if such action would reduce the WC-130 
     Weather Reconnaissance mission below the levels funded in 
     this Act:  Provided, That the Air Force shall allow the 53rd 
     Weather Reconnaissance Squadron to perform other missions in 
     support of national defense requirements during the non-
     hurricane season.
       Sec. 8075.  None of the funds provided in this Act shall be 
     available for integration of foreign intelligence information 
     unless the information has been lawfully collected and 
     processed during the conduct of authorized foreign 
     intelligence activities:  Provided, That information 
     pertaining to United States persons shall only be handled in 
     accordance with protections provided in the Fourth Amendment 
     of the United States Constitution as implemented through 
     Executive Order No. 12333.
       Sec. 8076. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
     may be used to transfer research and development, 
     acquisition, or other program authority relating to current 
     tactical unmanned aerial vehicles (TUAVs) from the Army.
       (b) The Army shall retain responsibility for and 
     operational control of the MQ-1C Gray Eagle Unmanned Aerial 
     Vehicle (UAV) in order to support the Secretary of Defense in 
     matters relating to the employment of unmanned aerial 
     vehicles.
       Sec. 8077.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act for 
     programs of the Office of the Director of National 
     Intelligence shall remain available for obligation beyond the 
     current fiscal year, except for funds appropriated for 
     research and technology, which shall remain available until 
     September 30, 2019.
       Sec. 8078.  For purposes of section 1553(b) of title 31, 
     United States Code, any subdivision of appropriations made in 
     this Act under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
     Navy'' shall be considered to be for the same purpose as any 
     subdivision under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
     Navy'' appropriations in any prior fiscal year, and the 1 
     percent limitation shall apply to the total amount of the 
     appropriation.
       Sec. 8079. (a) Not later than 60 days after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence 
     shall submit a report to the congressional intelligence 
     committees to establish the baseline for application of 
     reprogramming and transfer authorities for fiscal year 2018:  
     Provided, That the report shall include--
       (1) a table for each appropriation with a separate column 
     to display the President's budget request, adjustments made 
     by Congress, adjustments due to enacted rescissions, if 
     appropriate, and the fiscal year enacted level;
       (2) a delineation in the table for each appropriation by 
     Expenditure Center and project; and
       (3) an identification of items of special congressional 
     interest.
       (b) None of the funds provided for the National 
     Intelligence Program in this Act shall be available for 
     reprogramming or transfer until the report identified in 
     subsection (a) is submitted to the congressional intelligence 
     committees, unless the Director of National Intelligence 
     certifies in writing to the congressional intelligence 
     committees that such reprogramming or transfer is necessary 
     as an emergency requirement.
       Sec. 8080.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     may be used to eliminate, restructure, or realign Army 
     Contracting Command--New Jersey or make disproportionate 
     personnel reductions at any Army Contracting Command--New 
     Jersey sites without 30-day prior notification to the 
     congressional defense committees.

                              (rescission)

       Sec. 8081.  Of the unobligated balances available to the 
     Department of Defense, the following funds are permanently 
     rescinded from the following accounts and programs in the 
     specified amounts to reflect excess cash balances in the 
     Department of Defense Acquisition Workforce Development Fund:
       From ``Department of Defense Acquisition Workforce 
     Development Fund, Defense'', $10,000,000.
       Sec. 8082.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     for excess defense articles, assistance under section 333 of 
     title 10, United States Code, or peacekeeping operations for 
     the countries designated annually to be in violation of the 
     standards of the Child Soldiers Prevention Act of 2008 
     (Public Law 110-457; 22 U.S.C. 2370c-1) may be used to 
     support any military training or operation that includes 
     child soldiers, as defined by the Child Soldiers Prevention 
     Act of 2008, unless such assistance is otherwise permitted 
     under section 404 of the Child Soldiers Prevention Act of 
     2008.
       Sec. 8083. (a) None of the funds provided for the National 
     Intelligence Program in this or any prior appropriations Act 
     shall be available for obligation or expenditure through a 
     reprogramming or transfer of funds in accordance with section 
     102A(d) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
     3024(d)) that--
       (1) creates a new start effort;
       (2) terminates a program with appropriated funding of 
     $10,000,000 or more;
       (3) transfers funding into or out of the National 
     Intelligence Program; or
       (4) transfers funding between appropriations, unless the 
     congressional intelligence committees are notified 30 days in 
     advance of such reprogramming of funds; this notification 
     period may be reduced for urgent national security 
     requirements.

[[Page H7007]]

       (b) None of the funds provided for the National 
     Intelligence Program in this or any prior appropriations Act 
     shall be available for obligation or expenditure through a 
     reprogramming or transfer of funds in accordance with section 
     102A(d) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
     3024(d)) that results in a cumulative increase or decrease of 
     the levels specified in the classified annex accompanying the 
     Act unless the congressional intelligence committees are 
     notified 30 days in advance of such reprogramming of funds; 
     this notification period may be reduced for urgent national 
     security requirements.
       Sec. 8084.  The Director of National Intelligence shall 
     submit to Congress each year, at or about the time that the 
     President's budget is submitted to Congress that year under 
     section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, a future-
     years intelligence program (including associated annexes) 
     reflecting the estimated expenditures and proposed 
     appropriations included in that budget. Any such future-years 
     intelligence program shall cover the fiscal year with respect 
     to which the budget is submitted and at least the four 
     succeeding fiscal years.
       Sec. 8085.  For the purposes of this Act, the term 
     ``congressional intelligence committees'' means the Permanent 
     Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
     Representatives, the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
     Senate, the Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives, and the 
     Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on Appropriations of 
     the Senate.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 8086.  During the current fiscal year, not to exceed 
     $11,000,000 from each of the appropriations made in title II 
     of this Act for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', 
     ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', and ``Operation and 
     Maintenance, Air Force'' may be transferred by the military 
     department concerned to its central fund established for 
     Fisher Houses and Suites pursuant to section 2493(d) of title 
     10, United States Code.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 8087.  Not to exceed $500,000,000 appropriated by this 
     Act for operation and maintenance may be available for the 
     purpose of making remittances and transfer to the Defense 
     Acquisition Workforce Development Fund in accordance with 
     section 1705 of title 10, United States Code.
       Sec. 8088. (a) Any agency receiving funds made available in 
     this Act, shall, subject to subsections (b) and (c), post on 
     the public website of that agency any report required to be 
     submitted by the Congress in this or any other Act, upon the 
     determination by the head of the agency that it shall serve 
     the national interest.
       (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to a report if--
       (1) the public posting of the report compromises national 
     security; or
       (2) the report contains proprietary information.
       (c) The head of the agency posting such report shall do so 
     only after such report has been made available to the 
     requesting Committee or Committees of Congress for no less 
     than 45 days.
       Sec. 8089. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available by this Act may be expended for any Federal 
     contract for an amount in excess of $1,000,000, unless the 
     contractor agrees not to--
       (1) enter into any agreement with any of its employees or 
     independent contractors that requires, as a condition of 
     employment, that the employee or independent contractor agree 
     to resolve through arbitration any claim under title VII of 
     the Civil Rights Act of 1964 or any tort related to or 
     arising out of sexual assault or harassment, including 
     assault and battery, intentional infliction of emotional 
     distress, false imprisonment, or negligent hiring, 
     supervision, or retention; or
       (2) take any action to enforce any provision of an existing 
     agreement with an employee or independent contractor that 
     mandates that the employee or independent contractor resolve 
     through arbitration any claim under title VII of the Civil 
     Rights Act of 1964 or any tort related to or arising out of 
     sexual assault or harassment, including assault and battery, 
     intentional infliction of emotional distress, false 
     imprisonment, or negligent hiring, supervision, or retention.
       (b) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available by this Act may be expended for any Federal 
     contract unless the contractor certifies that it requires 
     each covered subcontractor to agree not to enter into, and 
     not to take any action to enforce any provision of, any 
     agreement as described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of 
     subsection (a), with respect to any employee or independent 
     contractor performing work related to such subcontract. For 
     purposes of this subsection, a ``covered subcontractor'' is 
     an entity that has a subcontract in excess of $1,000,000 on a 
     contract subject to subsection (a).
       (c) The prohibitions in this section do not apply with 
     respect to a contractor's or subcontractor's agreements with 
     employees or independent contractors that may not be enforced 
     in a court of the United States.
       (d) The Secretary of Defense may waive the application of 
     subsection (a) or (b) to a particular contractor or 
     subcontractor for the purposes of a particular contract or 
     subcontract if the Secretary or the Deputy Secretary 
     personally determines that the waiver is necessary to avoid 
     harm to national security interests of the United States, and 
     that the term of the contract or subcontract is not longer 
     than necessary to avoid such harm. The determination shall 
     set forth with specificity the grounds for the waiver and for 
     the contract or subcontract term selected, and shall state 
     any alternatives considered in lieu of a waiver and the 
     reasons each such alternative would not avoid harm to 
     national security interests of the United States. The 
     Secretary of Defense shall transmit to Congress, and 
     simultaneously make public, any determination under this 
     subsection not less than 15 business days before the contract 
     or subcontract addressed in the determination may be awarded.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 8090.  From within the funds appropriated for 
     operation and maintenance for the Defense Health Program in 
     this Act, up to $115,519,000, shall be available for transfer 
     to the Joint Department of Defense-Department of Veterans 
     Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund in accordance 
     with the provisions of section 1704 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010, Public Law 111-84:  
     Provided, That for purposes of section 1704(b), the facility 
     operations funded are operations of the integrated Captain 
     James A. Lovell Federal Health Care Center, consisting of the 
     North Chicago Veterans Affairs Medical Center, the Navy 
     Ambulatory Care Center, and supporting facilities designated 
     as a combined Federal medical facility as described by 
     section 706 of Public Law 110-417:  Provided further, That 
     additional funds may be transferred from funds appropriated 
     for operation and maintenance for the Defense Health Program 
     to the Joint Department of Defense-Department of Veterans 
     Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund upon written 
     notification by the Secretary of Defense to the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
     Senate.
       Sec. 8091.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available by this Act may be used by the Department of 
     Defense or a component thereof in contravention of the 
     provisions of section 130h of title 10, United States Code.
       Sec. 8092.  Appropriations available to the Department of 
     Defense may be used for the purchase of heavy and light 
     armored vehicles for the physical security of personnel or 
     for force protection purposes up to a limit of $450,000 per 
     vehicle, notwithstanding price or other limitations 
     applicable to the purchase of passenger carrying vehicles.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 8093.  Upon a determination by the Director of 
     National Intelligence that such action is necessary and in 
     the national interest, the Director may, with the approval of 
     the Office of Management and Budget, transfer not to exceed 
     $1,500,000,000 of the funds made available in this Act for 
     the National Intelligence Program:  Provided, That such 
     authority to transfer may not be used unless for higher 
     priority items, based on unforeseen intelligence 
     requirements, than those for which originally appropriated 
     and in no case where the item for which funds are requested 
     has been denied by the Congress:  Provided further, That a 
     request for multiple reprogrammings of funds using authority 
     provided in this section shall be made prior to June 30, 
     2017.
       Sec. 8094.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available in this or any other Act may be used to 
     transfer, release, or assist in the transfer or release to or 
     within the United States, its territories, or possessions 
     Khalid Sheikh Mohammed or any other detainee who--
       (1) is not a United States citizen or a member of the Armed 
     Forces of the United States; and
       (2) is or was held on or after June 24, 2009, at United 
     States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, by the Department 
     of Defense.
       Sec. 8095. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available in this or any other Act may be used to 
     construct, acquire, or modify any facility in the United 
     States, its territories, or possessions to house any 
     individual described in subsection (c) for the purposes of 
     detention or imprisonment in the custody or under the 
     effective control of the Department of Defense.
       (b) The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply to 
     any modification of facilities at United States Naval 
     Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
       (c) An individual described in this subsection is any 
     individual who, as of June 24, 2009, is located at United 
     States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and who--
       (1) is not a citizen of the United States or a member of 
     the Armed Forces of the United States; and
       (2) is--
       (A) in the custody or under the effective control of the 
     Department of Defense; or
       (B) otherwise under detention at United States Naval 
     Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
       Sec. 8096.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available in this Act may be used to transfer any 
     individual detained at United States Naval Station Guantanamo 
     Bay, Cuba, to the custody or control of the individual's 
     country of origin, any other foreign country, or any other 
     foreign entity except in accordance with section 1034 of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 
     (Public Law 114-92) and section 1034 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328).
       Sec. 8097.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     may be used in contravention of the War Powers Resolution (50 
     U.S.C. 1541 et seq.).

[[Page H7008]]

       Sec. 8098. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available by this or any other Act may be used by the 
     Secretary of Defense, or any other official or officer of the 
     Department of Defense, to enter into a contract, memorandum 
     of understanding, or cooperative agreement with, or make a 
     grant to, or provide a loan or loan guarantee to 
     Rosoboronexport or any subsidiary of Rosoboronexport.
       (b) The Secretary of Defense may waive the limitation in 
     subsection (a) if the Secretary, in consultation with the 
     Secretary of State and the Director of National Intelligence, 
     determines that it is in the vital national security interest 
     of the United States to do so, and certifies in writing to 
     the congressional defense committees that, to the best of the 
     Secretary's knowledge:
       (1) Rosoboronexport has ceased the transfer of lethal 
     military equipment to, and the maintenance of existing lethal 
     military equipment for, the Government of the Syrian Arab 
     Republic;
       (2) The armed forces of the Russian Federation have 
     withdrawn from Crimea, other than armed forces present on 
     military bases subject to agreements in force between the 
     Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of 
     Ukraine; and
       (3) Agents of the Russian Federation have ceased taking 
     active measures to destabilize the control of the Government 
     of Ukraine over eastern Ukraine.
       (c) The Inspector General of the Department of Defense 
     shall conduct a review of any action involving 
     Rosoboronexport with respect to a waiver issued by the 
     Secretary of Defense pursuant to subsection (b), and not 
     later than 90 days after the date on which such a waiver is 
     issued by the Secretary of Defense, the Inspector General 
     shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
     containing the results of the review conducted with respect 
     to such waiver.
       Sec. 8099.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
     may be used for the purchase or manufacture of a flag of the 
     United States unless such flags are treated as covered items 
     under section 2533a(b) of title 10, United States Code.
       Sec. 8100. (a) Of the funds appropriated in this Act for 
     the Department of Defense, amounts may be made available, 
     under such regulations as the Secretary of Defense may 
     prescribe, to local military commanders appointed by the 
     Secretary, or by an officer or employee designated by the 
     Secretary, to provide at their discretion ex gratia payments 
     in amounts consistent with subsection (d) of this section for 
     damage, personal injury, or death that is incident to combat 
     operations of the Armed Forces in a foreign country.
       (b) An ex gratia payment under this section may be provided 
     only if--
       (1) the prospective foreign civilian recipient is 
     determined by the local military commander to be friendly to 
     the United States;
       (2) a claim for damages would not be compensable under 
     chapter 163 of title 10, United States Code (commonly known 
     as the ``Foreign Claims Act''); and
       (3) the property damage, personal injury, or death was not 
     caused by action by an enemy.
       (c) Nature of Payments.--Any payments provided under a 
     program under subsection (a) shall not be considered an 
     admission or acknowledgement of any legal obligation to 
     compensate for any damage, personal injury, or death.
       (d) Amount of Payments.--If the Secretary of Defense 
     determines a program under subsection (a) to be appropriate 
     in a particular setting, the amounts of payments, if any, to 
     be provided to civilians determined to have suffered harm 
     incident to combat operations of the Armed Forces under the 
     program should be determined pursuant to regulations 
     prescribed by the Secretary and based on an assessment, which 
     should include such factors as cultural appropriateness and 
     prevailing economic conditions.
       (e) Legal Advice.--Local military commanders shall receive 
     legal advice before making ex gratia payments under this 
     subsection. The legal advisor, under regulations of the 
     Department of Defense, shall advise on whether an ex gratia 
     payment is proper under this section and applicable 
     Department of Defense regulations.
       (f) Written Record.--A written record of any ex gratia 
     payment offered or denied shall be kept by the local 
     commander and on a timely basis submitted to the appropriate 
     office in the Department of Defense as determined by the 
     Secretary of Defense.
       (g) Report.--The Secretary of Defense shall report to the 
     congressional defense committees on an annual basis the 
     efficacy of the ex gratia payment program including the 
     number of types of cases considered, amounts offered, the 
     response from ex gratia payment recipients, and any 
     recommended modifications to the program.
       Sec. 8101.  None of the funds available in this Act to the 
     Department of Defense, other than appropriations made for 
     necessary or routine refurbishments, upgrades or maintenance 
     activities, shall be used to reduce or to prepare to reduce 
     the number of deployed and non-deployed strategic delivery 
     vehicles and launchers below the levels set forth in the 
     report submitted to Congress in accordance with section 1042 
     of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2012.
       Sec. 8102.  The Secretary of Defense shall post grant 
     awards on a public Website in a searchable format.
       Sec. 8103.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     may be used to fund the performance of a flight demonstration 
     team at a location outside of the United States:  Provided, 
     That this prohibition applies only if a performance of a 
     flight demonstration team at a location within the United 
     States was canceled during the current fiscal year due to 
     insufficient funding.
       Sec. 8104.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     may be used by the National Security Agency to--
       (1) conduct an acquisition pursuant to section 702 of the 
     Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 for the purpose 
     of targeting a United States person; or
       (2) acquire, monitor, or store the contents (as such term 
     is defined in section 2510(8) of title 18, United States 
     Code) of any electronic communication of a United States 
     person from a provider of electronic communication services 
     to the public pursuant to section 501 of the Foreign 
     Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978.
       Sec. 8105.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     may be obligated or expended to implement the Arms Trade 
     Treaty until the Senate approves a resolution of ratification 
     for the Treaty.
       Sec. 8106.  None of the funds made available in this or any 
     other Act may be used to pay the salary of any officer or 
     employee of any agency funded by this Act who approves or 
     implements the transfer of administrative responsibilities or 
     budgetary resources of any program, project, or activity 
     financed by this Act to the jurisdiction of another Federal 
     agency not financed by this Act unless explicity provided for 
     in a Defense Appropriations Act:  Provided, That this 
     limitation shall not apply to transfers of funds expressly 
     provided for in Defense Appropriations Acts, or provisions of 
     Acts providing supplemental appropriations for the Department 
     of Defense.
       Sec. 8107.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
     may be obligated for activities authorized under section 1208 
     of the Ronald W. Reagan National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2005 (Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1621) to 
     initiate support for, or expand support to, foreign forces, 
     irregular forces, groups, or individuals unless the 
     congressional defense committees are notified in accordance 
     with the direction contained in the classified annex 
     accompanying this Act, not less than 15 days before 
     initiating such support:  Provided, That none of the funds 
     made available in this Act may be used under section 1208 for 
     any activity that is not in support of an ongoing military 
     operation being conducted by United States Special Operations 
     Forces to combat terrorism:  Provided further, That the 
     Secretary of Defense may waive the prohibitions in this 
     section if the Secretary determines that such waiver is 
     required by extraordinary circumstances and, by not later 
     than 72 hours after making such waiver, notifies the 
     congressional defense committees of such waiver.
       Sec. 8108.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     may be used with respect to Iraq in contravention of the War 
     Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1541 et seq.), including for the 
     introduction of United States armed forces into hostilities 
     in Iraq, into situations in Iraq where imminent involvement 
     in hostilities is clearly indicated by the circumstances, or 
     into Iraqi territory, airspace, or waters while equipped for 
     combat, in contravention of the congressional consultation 
     and reporting requirements of sections 3 and 4 of such 
     Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1542 and 1543).
       Sec. 8109.  None of the funds provided in this Act for the 
     T-AO Fleet Oiler or the Towing, Salvage, and Rescue Ship 
     programs shall be used to award a new contract that provides 
     for the acquisition of the following components unless those 
     components are manufactured in the United States: Auxiliary 
     equipment (including pumps) for shipboard services; 
     propulsion equipment (including engines, reduction gears, and 
     propellers); shipboard cranes; and spreaders for shipboard 
     cranes.
       Sec. 8110.  The amount appropriated in title II of this Act 
     for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'' is hereby reduced by 
     $75,000,000 to reflect excess cash balances in Department of 
     Defense Working Capital Funds.
       Sec. 8111.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this 
     Act, to reflect savings due to lower than anticipated fuel 
     costs, the total amount appropriated in title II of this Act 
     is hereby reduced by $1,007,267,000.
       Sec. 8112.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     may be used for Government Travel Charge Card expenses by 
     military or civilian personnel of the Department of Defense 
     for gaming, or for entertainment that includes topless or 
     nude entertainers or participants, as prohibited by 
     Department of Defense FMR, Volume 9, Chapter 3 and Department 
     of Defense Instruction 1015.10 (enclosure 3, 14a and 14b).
       Sec. 8113.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     may be used to propose, plan for, or execute a new or 
     additional Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) round.
       Sec. 8114.  Of the amounts appropriated in this Act for 
     ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', $289,255,000, to remain 
     available until expended, may be used for any purposes 
     related to the National Defense Reserve Fleet established 
     under section 11 of the Merchant Ship Sales Act of 1946 (50 
     U.S.C. 4405):  Provided, That such amounts are available for 
     reimbursements to the Ready Reserve Force, Maritime 
     Administration account of the United States Department of 
     Transportation for programs, projects, activities, and 
     expenses related to the National Defense Reserve Fleet.

[[Page H7009]]

       Sec. 8115.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     for the Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System 
     recapitalization program may be obligated or expended for 
     pre-milestone B activities after March 31, 2018, except for 
     source selection and other activities necessary to enter the 
     engineering and manufacturing development phase.
       Sec. 8116.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     may be used to carry out the closure or realignment of the 
     United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 8117.  Additional readiness funds made available in 
     title II of this Act for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', 
     ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', ``Operation and 
     Maintenance, Marine Corps'', and ``Operation and Maintenance, 
     Air Force'' may be transferred to and merged with any 
     appropriation of the Department of Defense for activities 
     related to the Zika virus in order to provide health support 
     for the full range of military operations and sustain the 
     health of the members of the Armed Forces, civilian employees 
     of the Department of Defense, and their families, to include: 
     research and development, disease surveillance, vaccine 
     development, rapid detection, vector controls and 
     surveillance, training, and outbreak response:  Provided, 
     That the authority provided in this section is subject to the 
     same terms and conditions as the authority provided in 
     section 8005 of this Act.
       Sec. 8118. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act 
     may be used to maintain or establish a computer network 
     unless such network is designed to block access to 
     pornography websites.
       (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
     necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law 
     enforcement agency or any other entity carrying out criminal 
     investigations, prosecution, or adjudication activities, or 
     for any activity necessary for the national defense, 
     including intelligence activities.
       Sec. 8119.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any 
     transfer of funds appropriated or otherwise made available by 
     this Act to the Global Engagement Center pursuant to section 
     1287 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328) shall be made in accordance 
     with section 8005 or 9002 of this Act, as applicable.
       Sec. 8120.  No amounts credited or otherwise made available 
     in this or any other Act to the Department of Defense 
     Acquisition Workforce Development Fund may be transferred to:
       (1) the Rapid Prototyping Fund established under section 
     804(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2016 (10 U.S.C. 2302 note); or
       (2) credited to a military-department specific fund 
     established under section 804(d)(2) of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (as amended by section 
     897 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2017).

                       (including transfer fund)

       Sec. 8121.  In addition to amounts provided elsewhere in 
     this Act for military personnel pay, including active duty, 
     reserve and National Guard personnel, $206,400,000 is hereby 
     appropriated to the Department of Defense and made available 
     for transfer only to military personnel accounts: Provided, 
     That the transfer authority provided under this heading is in 
     addition to any other transfer authority provided elsewhere 
     in this Act.
       Sec. 8122.  In addition to amounts provided elsewhere in 
     this Act, there is appropriated $235,000,000, for an 
     additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-
     Wide'', to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
     such funds shall only be available to the Secretary of 
     Defense, acting through the Office of Economic Adjustment of 
     the Department of Defense, or for transfer to the Secretary 
     of Education, notwithstanding any other provision of law, to 
     make grants, conclude cooperative agreements, or supplement 
     other Federal funds to construct, renovate, repair, or expand 
     elementary and secondary public schools on military 
     installations in order to address capacity or facility 
     condition deficiencies at such schools: Provided further, 
     That in making such funds available, the Office of Economic 
     Adjustment or the Secretary of Education shall give priority 
     consideration to those military installations with schools 
     having the most serious capacity or facility condition 
     deficiencies as determined by the Secretary of Defense: 
     Provided further, That as a condition of receiving funds 
     under this section a local educational agency or State shall 
     provide a matching share as described in the notice titled 
     ``Department of Defense Program for Construction, Renovation, 
     Repair or Expansion of Public Schools Located on Military 
     Installations'' published by the Department of Defense in the 
     Federal Register on September 9, 2011 (76 Fed. Reg. 55883 et 
     seq.): Provided further, That these provisions apply to funds 
     provided under this section, and to funds previously provided 
     by Congress to construct, renovate, repair, or expand 
     elementary and secondary public schools on military 
     installations in order to address capacity or facility 
     condition deficiencies at such schools to the extent such 
     funds remain unobligated on the date of enactment of this 
     section.
       Sec. 8123.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     may be used to carry out the changes to the Joint Travel 
     Regulations of the Department of Defense described in the 
     memorandum of the Per Diem Travel and Transportation 
     Allowance Committee titled ``UTD/CTD for MAP 118-13/CAP 118-
     13 - Flat Rate Per Diem for Long Term TDY'' and dated October 
     1, 2014.
       Sec. 8124.  In carrying out the program described in the 
     memorandum on the subject of ``Policy for Assisted 
     Reproductive Services for the Benefit of Seriously or 
     Severely Ill/Injured (Category II or III) Active Duty Service 
     Members'' issued by the Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
     Health Affairs on April 3, 2012, and the guidance issued to 
     implement such memorandum, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     apply such policy and guidance, except that--
       (1) the limitation on periods regarding embryo 
     cryopreservation and storage set forth in part III(G) and in 
     part IV(H) of such memorandum shall not apply; and
       (2) the term ``assisted reproductive technology'' shall 
     include embryo cryopreservation and storage without 
     limitation on the duration of such cryopreservation and 
     storage.

                                TITLE IX

        OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS/GLOBAL WAR ON TERRORISM

                           MILITARY PERSONNEL

                        Military Personnel, Army

       For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Army'', 
     $2,635,317,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by 
     the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War 
     on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                        Military Personnel, Navy

       For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Navy'', 
     $377,857,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by 
     the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War 
     on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                    Military Personnel, Marine Corps

       For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Marine 
     Corps'', $103,800,000:  Provided, That such amount is 
     designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

                     Military Personnel, Air Force

       For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Air 
     Force'', $912,779,000:  Provided, That such amount is 
     designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

                        Reserve Personnel, Army

       For an additional amount for ``Reserve Personnel, Army'', 
     $24,942,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
     Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
     Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                        Reserve Personnel, Navy

       For an additional amount for ``Reserve Personnel, Navy'', 
     $9,091,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
     Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
     Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                    Reserve Personnel, Marine Corps

       For an additional amount for ``Reserve Personnel, Marine 
     Corps'', $2,328,000:  Provided, That such amount is 
     designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

                      Reserve Personnel, Air Force

       For an additional amount for ``Reserve Personnel, Air 
     Force'', $20,569,000:  Provided, That such amount is 
     designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

                     National Guard Personnel, Army

       For an additional amount for ``National Guard Personnel, 
     Army'', $184,589,000:  Provided, That such amount is 
     designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

                  National Guard Personnel, Air Force

       For an additional amount for ``National Guard Personnel, 
     Air Force'', $5,004,000:  Provided, That such amount is 
     designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

         Military Personnel, National Defense Restoration Fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

       In addition to amounts provided elsewhere in this Act, 
     there is appropriated $1,000,000,000, for the ``Military 
     Personnel, National Defense Restoration Fund'': Provided, 
     That such funds provided under this heading shall only be 
     available for programs, projects and activities necessary to 
     implement the 2018 National Defense Strategy: Provided 
     further, That such funds shall not be available for transfer 
     until 30 days after the

[[Page H7010]]

     Secretary has submitted, and the congressional defense 
     committees have approved, the proposed allocation plan for 
     the use of such funds to implement such strategy: Provided 
     further, That such allocation plan shall include a detailed 
     justification for the use of such funds and a description of 
     how such investments are necessary to implement the strategy: 
     Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense may transfer 
     these funds only to military personnel accounts: Provided 
     further, That the funds transferred shall be merged with and 
     shall be available for the same purposes and for the same 
     time period, as the appropriation to which transferred: 
     Provided further, That none of the funds made available under 
     this heading may be transferred to any program, project, or 
     activity specifically limited or denied by this Act: Provided 
     further, That the transfer authority provided under this 
     heading is in addition to any other transfer authority 
     available to the Department of Defense: Provided further, 
     That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas 
     Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
     section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                       OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                    Operation and Maintenance, Army

       For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, 
     Army'', $16,126,403,000:  Provided, That such amount is 
     designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

                    Operation and Maintenance, Navy

       For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, 
     Navy'', $5,875,015,000, of which up to $161,885,000 may be 
     transferred to the Coast Guard ``Operating Expenses'' 
     account:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
     Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
     Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps

       For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, 
     Marine Corps'', $1,116,640,000:  Provided, That such amount 
     is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

                  Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

       For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, 
     Air Force'', $10,266,295,000:  Provided, That such amount is 
     designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

                Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

       For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, 
     Defense-Wide'', $6,944,201,000:  Provided, That of the funds 
     provided under this heading, not to exceed $900,000,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2019, shall be for 
     payments to reimburse key cooperating nations for logistical, 
     military, and other support, including access, provided to 
     United States military and stability operations in 
     Afghanistan and to counter the Islamic State of Iraq and the 
     Levant: Provided further, That such reimbursement payments 
     may be made in such amounts as the Secretary of Defense, with 
     the concurrence of the Secretary of State, and in 
     consultation with the Director of the Office of Management 
     and Budget, may determine, based on documentation determined 
     by the Secretary of Defense to adequately account for the 
     support provided, and such determination is final and 
     conclusive upon the accounting officers of the United States, 
     and 15 days following notification to the appropriate 
     congressional committees: Provided further, That funds 
     provided under this heading may be used for the purpose of 
     providing specialized training and procuring supplies and 
     specialized equipment and providing such supplies and loaning 
     such equipment on a non-reimbursable basis to coalition 
     forces supporting United States military and stability 
     operations in Afghanistan and to counter the Islamic State of 
     Iraq and the Levant, and 15 days following notification to 
     the appropriate congressional committees:  Provided further, 
     That funds provided under this heading may be used to support 
     the Government of Jordan, in such amounts as the Secretary of 
     Defense may determine, to enhance the ability of the armed 
     forces of Jordan to increase or sustain security along its 
     borders, upon 15 days prior written notification to the 
     congressional defense committees outlining the amounts 
     intended to be provided and the nature of the expenses 
     incurred: Provided further, That of the funds provided under 
     this heading, not to exceed $750,000,000, to remain available 
     until September 30, 2019, shall be available to provide 
     support and assistance to foreign security forces or other 
     groups or individuals to conduct, support, or facilitate 
     counterterrorism, crisis response, or other Department of 
     Defense security cooperation programs: Provided further, That 
     such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas 
     Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
     section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                Operation and Maintenance, Army Reserve

       For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, 
     Army Reserve'', $24,699,000:  Provided, That such amount is 
     designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

                Operation and Maintenance, Navy Reserve

       For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, 
     Navy Reserve'', $23,980,000:  Provided, That such amount is 
     designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

            Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps Reserve

       For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, 
     Marine Corps Reserve'', $3,367,000:  Provided, That such 
     amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

              Operation and Maintenance, Air Force Reserve

       For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, 
     Air Force Reserve'', $58,523,000:  Provided, That such amount 
     is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

             Operation and Maintenance, Army National Guard

       For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, 
     Army National Guard'', $108,111,000:  Provided, That such 
     amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

             Operation and Maintenance, Air National Guard

       For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, 
     Air National Guard'', $15,400,000:  Provided, That such 
     amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

      Operation and Maintenance, National Defense Restoration Fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

       In addition to amounts provided elsewhere in this Act, 
     there is appropriated $2,000,000,000, for the ``Operation and 
     Maintenance, National Defense Restoration Fund'': Provided, 
     That such funds provided under this heading shall only be 
     available for programs, projects and activities necessary to 
     implement the 2018 National Defense Strategy: Provided 
     further, That such funds shall not be available for transfer 
     until 30 days after the Secretary has submitted, and the 
     congressional defense committees have approved, the proposed 
     allocation plan for the use of such funds to implement such 
     strategy: Provided further, That such allocation plan shall 
     include a detailed justification for the use of such funds 
     and a description of how such investments are necessary to 
     implement the strategy: Provided further, That the Secretary 
     of Defense may transfer these funds only to operation and 
     maintenance accounts: Provided further, That the funds 
     transferred shall be merged with and shall be available for 
     the same purposes and for the same time period, as the 
     appropriation to which transferred: Provided further, That 
     none of the funds made available under this heading may be 
     transferred to any program, project, or activity specifically 
     limited or denied by this Act: Provided further, That the 
     transfer authority provided under this heading is in addition 
     to any other transfer authority available to the Department 
     of Defense: Provided further, That such amount is designated 
     by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global 
     War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                    Afghanistan Security Forces Fund

       For the ``Afghanistan Security Forces Fund'', 
     $4,937,515,000 (reduced by $12,000,000), to remain available 
     until September 30, 2019:  Provided, That such funds shall be 
     available to the Secretary of Defense, notwithstanding any 
     other provision of law, for the purpose of allowing the 
     Commander, Combined Security Transition Command--Afghanistan, 
     or the Secretary's designee, to provide assistance, with the 
     concurrence of the Secretary of State, to the security forces 
     of Afghanistan, including the provision of equipment, 
     supplies, services, training, facility and infrastructure 
     repair, renovation, construction, and funding:  Provided 
     further, That the Secretary of Defense may obligate and 
     expend funds made available to the Department of Defense in 
     this title for additional costs associated with existing 
     projects previously funded with amounts provided under the 
     heading ``Afghanistan Infrastructure Fund'' in prior Acts:  
     Provided further, That such costs shall be limited to 
     contract changes resulting from inflation, market 
     fluctuation, rate adjustments, and other necessary contract 
     actions to complete existing projects, and associated 
     supervision and administration costs and costs for design 
     during construction:  Provided further, That the

[[Page H7011]]

     Secretary may not use more than $50,000,000 under the 
     authority provided in this section:  Provided further, That 
     the Secretary shall notify in advance such contract changes 
     and adjustments in annual reports to the congressional 
     defense committees:  Provided further, That the authority to 
     provide assistance under this heading is in addition to any 
     other authority to provide assistance to foreign nations:  
     Provided further, That contributions of funds for the 
     purposes provided herein from any person, foreign government, 
     or international organization may be credited to this Fund, 
     to remain available until expended, and used for such 
     purposes:  Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense 
     shall notify the congressional defense committees in writing 
     upon the receipt and upon the obligation of any contribution, 
     delineating the sources and amounts of the funds received and 
     the specific use of such contributions:  Provided further, 
     That the Secretary of Defense shall, not fewer than 15 days 
     prior to obligating from this appropriation account, notify 
     the congressional defense committees in writing of the 
     details of any such obligation:  Provided further, That the 
     Secretary of Defense shall notify the congressional defense 
     committees of any proposed new projects or transfer of funds 
     between budget sub-activity groups in excess of $20,000,000:  
     Provided further, That the United States may accept equipment 
     procured using funds provided under this heading in this or 
     prior Acts that was transferred to the security forces of 
     Afghanistan and returned by such forces to the United States: 
      Provided further, That equipment procured using funds 
     provided under this heading in this or prior Acts, and not 
     yet transferred to the security forces of Afghanistan or 
     transferred to the security forces of Afghanistan and 
     returned by such forces to the United States, may be treated 
     as stocks of the Department of Defense upon written 
     notification to the congressional defense committees:  
     Provided further, That of the funds provided under this 
     heading, not less than $10,000,000 shall be for recruitment 
     and retention of women in the Afghanistan National Security 
     Forces, and the recruitment and training of female security 
     personnel:  Provided further, That such amount is designated 
     by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global 
     War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                   Counter-ISIL Train and Equip Fund

       For the ``Counter-Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant 
     Train and Equip Fund'', $1,769,000,000, to remain available 
     until September 30, 2019: Provided, That such funds shall be 
     available to the Secretary of Defense in coordination with 
     the Secretary of State, to provide assistance, including 
     training; equipment; logistics support, supplies, and 
     services; stipends; infrastructure repair and renovation; and 
     sustainment, to foreign security forces, irregular forces, 
     groups, or individuals participating, or preparing to 
     participate in activities to counter the Islamic State of 
     Iraq and the Levant, and their affiliated or associated 
     groups: Provided further, That these funds may be used in 
     such amounts as the Secretary of Defense may determine to 
     enhance the border security of nations adjacent to conflict 
     areas including Jordan, Lebanon, Egypt, and Tunisia resulting 
     from actions of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant: 
     Provided further, That amounts made available under this 
     heading shall be available to provide assistance only for 
     activities in a country designated by the Secretary of 
     Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State, as 
     having a security mission to counter the Islamic State of 
     Iraq and the Levant, and following written notification to 
     the congressional defense committees of such designation:  
     Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense shall ensure 
     that prior to providing assistance to elements of any forces 
     or individuals, such elements or individuals are 
     appropriately vetted, including at a minimum, assessing such 
     elements for associations with terrorist groups or groups 
     associated with the Government of Iran; and receiving 
     commitments from such elements to promote respect for human 
     rights and the rule of law: Provided further, That the 
     Secretary of Defense shall, not fewer than 15 days prior to 
     obligating from this appropriation account, notify the 
     congressional defense committees in writing of the details of 
     any such obligation: Provided further, That the Secretary of 
     Defense may accept and retain contributions, including 
     assistance in-kind, from foreign governments, including the 
     Government of Iraq and other entities, to carry out 
     assistance authorized under this heading: Provided further, 
     That contributions of funds for the purposes provided herein 
     from any foreign government or other entity may be credited 
     to this Fund, to remain available until expended, and used 
     for such purposes: Provided further, That the Secretary of 
     Defense may waive a provision of law relating to the 
     acquisition of items and support services or sections 40 and 
     40A of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2780 and 2785) 
     if the Secretary determines that such provision of law would 
     prohibit, restrict, delay or otherwise limit the provision of 
     such assistance and a notice of and justification for such 
     waiver is submitted to the congressional defense committees, 
     the Committees on Appropriations and Foreign Relations of the 
     Senate and the Committees on Appropriations and Foreign 
     Affairs of the House of Representatives: Provided further, 
     That the United States may accept equipment procured using 
     funds provided under this heading, or under the heading, 
     ``Iraq Train and Equip Fund'' in prior Acts, that was 
     transferred to security forces, irregular forces, or groups 
     participating, or preparing to participate in activities to 
     counter the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant and returned 
     by such forces or groups to the United States, may be treated 
     as stocks of the Department of Defense upon written 
     notification to the congressional defense committees: 
     Provided further, That equipment procured using funds 
     provided under this heading, or under the heading, ``Iraq 
     Train and Equip Fund'' in prior Acts, and not yet transferred 
     to security forces, irregular forces, or groups 
     participating, or preparing to participate in activities to 
     counter the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant may be 
     treated as stocks of the Department of Defense when 
     determined by the Secretary to no longer be required for 
     transfer to such forces or groups and upon written 
     notification to the congressional defense committees: 
     Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense shall provide 
     quarterly reports to the congressional defense committees on 
     the use of funds provided under this heading, including, but 
     not limited to, the number of individuals trained, the nature 
     and scope of support and sustainment provided to each group 
     or individual, the area of operations for each group, and the 
     contributions of other countries, groups, or individuals: 
     Provided further, That such amount is designated by the 
     Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/ Global War on 
     Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                              PROCUREMENT

                       Aircraft Procurement, Army

       For an additional amount for ``Aircraft Procurement, 
     Army'', $424,686,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2020:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
     Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
     Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                       Missile Procurement, Army

       For an additional amount for ``Missile Procurement, Army'', 
     $557,583,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020:  
     Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
     Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
     pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
     and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

        Procurement of Weapons and Tracked Combat Vehicles, Army

       For an additional amount for ``Procurement of Weapons and 
     Tracked Combat Vehicles, Army'', $1,191,139,000, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2020:  Provided, That such 
     amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

                    Procurement of Ammunition, Army

       For an additional amount for ``Procurement of Ammunition, 
     Army'', $193,436,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2020:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
     Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
     Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                        Other Procurement, Army

       For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Army'', 
     $405,575,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020:  
     Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
     Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
     pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
     and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                       Aircraft Procurement, Navy

       For an additional amount for ``Aircraft Procurement, 
     Navy'', $157,300,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2020:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
     Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
     Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                       Weapons Procurement, Navy

       For an additional amount for ``Weapons Procurement, Navy'', 
     $130,994,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020:  
     Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
     Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
     pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
     and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

            Procurement of Ammunition, Navy and Marine Corps

       For an additional amount for ``Procurement of Ammunition, 
     Navy and Marine Corps'', $223,843,000, to remain available 
     until September 30, 2020:  Provided, That such amount is 
     designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

                        Other Procurement, Navy

       For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Navy'', 
     $207,984,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020:  
     Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
     Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
     pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
     and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                       Procurement, Marine Corps

       For an additional amount for ``Procurement, Marine Corps'', 
     $64,071,000, to remain

[[Page H7012]]

     available until September 30, 2020:  Provided, That such 
     amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

                    Aircraft Procurement, Air Force

       For an additional amount for ``Aircraft Procurement, Air 
     Force'', $510,836,000, to remain available until September 
     30, 2020:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
     Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
     Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     Missile Procurement, Air Force

       For an additional amount for ``Missile Procurement, Air 
     Force'', $381,700,000, to remain available until September 
     30, 2020:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
     Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
     Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                      Space Procurement, Air Force

       For an additional amount for ``Space Procurement, Air 
     Force'', $2,256,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2020: Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
     Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
     Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                  Procurement of Ammunition, Air Force

       For an additional amount for ``Procurement of Ammunition, 
     Air Force'', $501,509,000, to remain available until 
     September 30, 2020:  Provided, That such amount is designated 
     by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global 
     War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                      Other Procurement, Air Force

       For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Air 
     Force'', $3,998,887,000, to remain available until September 
     30, 2020:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
     Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
     Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                       Procurement, Defense-Wide

       For an additional amount for ``Procurement, Defense-Wide'', 
     $510,741,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020:  
     Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
     Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
     pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
     and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

              National Guard and Reserve Equipment Account

       For procurement of rotary-wing aircraft; combat, tactical 
     and support vehicles; other weapons; and other procurement 
     items for the reserve components of the Armed Forces, 
     $1,000,000,000, to remain available for obligation until 
     September 30, 2020:  Provided, That the Chiefs of National 
     Guard and Reserve components shall, not later than 30 days 
     after enactment of this Act, individually submit to the 
     congressional defense committees the modernization priority 
     assessment for their respective National Guard or Reserve 
     component:  Provided further, That none of the funds made 
     available by this paragraph may be used to procure manned 
     fixed wing aircraft, or procure or modify missiles, 
     munitions, or ammunition:  Provided further, That such amount 
     is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

             Procurement, National Defense Restoration Fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

       In addition to amounts provided elsewhere in this Act, 
     there is appropriated $6,000,000,000, for the ``Procurement, 
     National Defense Restoration Fund'': Provided, That such 
     funds provided under this heading shall only be available for 
     programs, projects and activities necessary to implement the 
     2018 National Defense Strategy: Provided further, That such 
     funds shall not be available for transfer until 30 days after 
     the Secretary has submitted, and the congressional defense 
     committees have approved, the proposed allocation plan for 
     the use of such funds to implement such strategy: Provided 
     further, That such allocation plan shall include a detailed 
     justification for the use of such funds and a description of 
     how such investments are necessary to implement the strategy: 
     Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense may transfer 
     these funds only to procurement accounts: Provided further, 
     That the funds transferred shall be merged with and shall be 
     available for the same purposes and for the same time period, 
     as the appropriation to which transferred: Provided further, 
     That none of the funds made available under this heading may 
     be transferred to any program, project, or activity 
     specifically limited or denied by this Act: Provided further, 
     That the transfer authority provided under this heading is in 
     addition to any other transfer authority available to the 
     Department of Defense: Provided further, That such amount is 
     designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

               RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army

       For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test 
     and Evaluation, Army'', $119,368,000 (increased by 
     $6,000,000), to remain available until September 30, 2019:  
     Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
     Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
     pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
     and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy

       For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test 
     and Evaluation, Navy'', $124,865,000, to remain available 
     until September 30, 2019:  Provided, That such amount is 
     designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

         Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force

       For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test 
     and Evaluation, Air Force'', $144,508,000, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2019:  Provided, That such 
     amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

        Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide

       For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test 
     and Evaluation, Defense-Wide'', $226,096,000, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2019:  Provided, That such 
     amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

     Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, National Defense 
                            Restoration Fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

       In addition to amounts provided elsewhere in this Act, 
     there is appropriated $1,000,000,000, for the ``Research, 
     Development, Test and Evaluation, National Defense 
     Restoration Fund'': Provided, That such funds provided under 
     this heading shall only be available for programs, projects 
     and activities necessary to implement the 2018 National 
     Defense Strategy: Provided further, That such funds shall not 
     be available for transfer until 30 days after the Secretary 
     has submitted, and the congressional defense committees have 
     approved, the proposed allocation plan for the use of such 
     funds to implement such strategy: Provided further, That such 
     allocation plan shall include a detailed justification for 
     the use of such funds and a description of how such 
     investments are necessary to implement the strategy: Provided 
     further, That the Secretary of Defense may transfer these 
     funds only to research, development, test and evaluation 
     accounts: Provided further, That the funds transferred shall 
     be merged with and shall be available for the same purposes 
     and for the same time period, as the appropriation to which 
     transferred: Provided further, That none of the funds made 
     available under this heading may be transferred to any 
     program, project, or activity specifically limited or denied 
     by this Act: Provided further, That the transfer authority 
     provided under this heading is in addition to any other 
     transfer authority available to the Department of Defense: 
     Provided further, That such amount is designated by the 
     Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
     Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     REVOLVING AND MANAGEMENT FUNDS

                     Defense Working Capital Funds

       For an additional amount for ``Defense Working Capital 
     Funds'', $148,956,000:  Provided, That such amount is 
     designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

                  OTHER DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROGRAMS

                         Defense Health Program

       For an additional amount for ``Defense Health Program'', 
     $395,805,000, which shall be for operation and maintenance:  
     Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
     Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
     pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
     and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

         Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense

       For an additional amount for ``Drug Interdiction and 
     Counter-Drug Activities, Defense'', $196,300,000:  Provided, 
     That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas 
     Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
     section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                  Joint Improvised-Threat Defeat Fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For the ``Joint Improvised-Threat Defeat Fund'', 
     $483,058,000, to remain available until

[[Page H7013]]

     September 30, 2020:  Provided, That such funds shall be 
     available to the Secretary of Defense, notwithstanding any 
     other provision of law, for the purpose of allowing the 
     Director of the Joint Improvised-Threat Defeat Organization 
     to investigate, develop and provide equipment, supplies, 
     services, training, facilities, personnel and funds to assist 
     United States forces in the defeat of improvised explosive 
     devices:  Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense may 
     transfer funds provided herein to appropriations for military 
     personnel; operation and maintenance; procurement; research, 
     development, test and evaluation; and defense working capital 
     funds to accomplish the purpose provided herein:  Provided 
     further, That this transfer authority is in addition to any 
     other transfer authority available to the Department of 
     Defense:  Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense 
     shall, not fewer than 5 days prior to making transfers from 
     this appropriation, notify the congressional defense 
     committees in writing of the details of any such transfer:  
     Provided further, That such amount is designated by the 
     Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
     Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                    Office of the Inspector General

       For an additional amount for the ``Office of the Inspector 
     General'', $24,692,000:  Provided, That such amount is 
     designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.

                     GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS TITLE

       Sec. 9001.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     funds made available in this title are in addition to amounts 
     appropriated or otherwise made available for the Department 
     of Defense for fiscal year 2018.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 9002.  Upon the determination of the Secretary of 
     Defense that such action is necessary in the national 
     interest, the Secretary may, with the approval of the Office 
     of Management and Budget, transfer up to $2,500,000,000 
     between the appropriations or funds made available to the 
     Department of Defense in this title:  Provided, That the 
     Secretary shall notify the Congress promptly of each transfer 
     made pursuant to the authority in this section:  Provided 
     further, That the authority provided in this section is in 
     addition to any other transfer authority available to the 
     Department of Defense and is subject to the same terms and 
     conditions as the authority provided in section 8005 of this 
     Act.
       Sec. 9003.  Supervision and administration costs and costs 
     for design during construction associated with a construction 
     project funded with appropriations available for operation 
     and maintenance or the ``Afghanistan Security Forces Fund'' 
     provided in this Act and executed in direct support of 
     overseas contingency operations in Afghanistan, may be 
     obligated at the time a construction contract is awarded:  
     Provided, That, for the purpose of this section, supervision 
     and administration costs and costs for design during 
     construction include all in-house Government costs.
       Sec. 9004.  From funds made available in this title, the 
     Secretary of Defense may purchase for use by military and 
     civilian employees of the Department of Defense in the United 
     States Central Command area of responsibility:
       (1) passenger motor vehicles up to a limit of $75,000 per 
     vehicle; and
       (2) heavy and light armored vehicles for the physical 
     security of personnel or for force protection purposes up to 
     a limit of $450,000 per vehicle, notwithstanding price or 
     other limitations applicable to the purchase of passenger 
     carrying vehicles.
       Sec. 9005.  Not to exceed $5,000,000 of the amounts 
     appropriated by this title under the heading ``Operation and 
     Maintenance, Army'' may be used, notwithstanding any other 
     provision of law, to fund the Commanders' Emergency Response 
     Program (CERP), for the purpose of enabling military 
     commanders in Afghanistan to respond to urgent, small-scale, 
     humanitarian relief and reconstruction requirements within 
     their areas of responsibility:  Provided, That each project 
     (including any ancillary or related elements in connection 
     with such project) executed under this authority shall not 
     exceed $2,000,000:  Provided further, That not later than 45 
     days after the end of each 6 months of the fiscal year, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
     defense committees a report regarding the source of funds and 
     the allocation and use of funds during that 6-month period 
     that were made available pursuant to the authority provided 
     in this section or under any other provision of law for the 
     purposes described herein:  Provided further, That, not later 
     than 30 days after the end of each fiscal year quarter, the 
     Army shall submit to the congressional defense committees 
     quarterly commitment, obligation, and expenditure data for 
     the CERP in Afghanistan:  Provided further, That, not less 
     than 15 days before making funds available pursuant to the 
     authority provided in this section or under any other 
     provision of law for the purposes described herein for a 
     project with a total anticipated cost for completion of 
     $500,000 or more, the Secretary shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees a written notice containing 
     each of the following:
       (1) The location, nature and purpose of the proposed 
     project, including how the project is intended to advance the 
     military campaign plan for the country in which it is to be 
     carried out.
       (2) The budget, implementation timeline with milestones, 
     and completion date for the proposed project, including any 
     other CERP funding that has been or is anticipated to be 
     contributed to the completion of the project.
       (3) A plan for the sustainment of the proposed project, 
     including the agreement with either the host nation, a non-
     Department of Defense agency of the United States Government 
     or a third-party contributor to finance the sustainment of 
     the activities and maintenance of any equipment or facilities 
     to be provided through the proposed project.
       Sec. 9006.  Funds available to the Department of Defense 
     for operation and maintenance may be used, notwithstanding 
     any other provision of law, to provide supplies, services, 
     transportation, including airlift and sealift, and other 
     logistical support to allied forces participating in a 
     combined operation with the armed forces of the United States 
     and coalition forces supporting military and stability 
     operations in Afghanistan and to counter the Islamic State of 
     Iraq and the Levant:  Provided, That the Secretary of Defense 
     shall provide quarterly reports to the congressional defense 
     committees regarding support provided under this section.
       Sec. 9007.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available by this or any other Act shall be obligated or 
     expended by the United States Government for a purpose as 
     follows:
       (1) To establish any military installation or base for the 
     purpose of providing for the permanent stationing of United 
     States Armed Forces in Iraq.
       (2) To exercise United States control over any oil resource 
     of Iraq.
       (3) To establish any military installation or base for the 
     purpose of providing for the permanent stationing of United 
     States Armed Forces in Afghanistan.
       Sec. 9008.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
     may be used in contravention of the following laws enacted or 
     regulations promulgated to implement the United Nations 
     Convention Against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or 
     Degrading Treatment or Punishment (done at New York on 
     December 10, 1984):
       (1) Section 2340A of title 18, United States Code.
       (2) Section 2242 of the Foreign Affairs Reform and 
     Restructuring Act of 1998 (division G of Public Law 105-277; 
     112 Stat. 2681-822; 8 U.S.C. 1231 note) and regulations 
     prescribed thereto, including regulations under part 208 of 
     title 8, Code of Federal Regulations, and part 95 of title 
     22, Code of Federal Regulations.
       (3) Sections 1002 and 1003 of the Department of Defense, 
     Emergency Supplemental Appropriations to Address Hurricanes 
     in the Gulf of Mexico, and Pandemic Influenza Act, 2006 
     (Public Law 109-148).
       Sec. 9009.  None of the funds provided for the 
     ``Afghanistan Security Forces Fund'' (ASFF) may be obligated 
     prior to the approval of a financial and activity plan by the 
     Afghanistan Resources Oversight Council (AROC) of the 
     Department of Defense:  Provided, That the AROC must approve 
     the requirement and acquisition plan for any service 
     requirements in excess of $50,000,000 annually and any non-
     standard equipment requirements in excess of $100,000,000 
     using ASFF:  Provided further, That the Department of Defense 
     must certify to the congressional defense committees that the 
     AROC has convened and approved a process for ensuring 
     compliance with the requirements in the preceding proviso and 
     accompanying report language for the ASFF.
       Sec. 9010.  Funds made available in this title to the 
     Department of Defense for operation and maintenance may be 
     used to purchase items having an investment unit cost of not 
     more than $250,000:  Provided, That, upon determination by 
     the Secretary of Defense that such action is necessary to 
     meet the operational requirements of a Commander of a 
     Combatant Command engaged in contingency operations overseas, 
     such funds may be used to purchase items having an investment 
     item unit cost of not more than $500,000.
       Sec. 9011.  Up to $500,000,000 of funds appropriated by 
     this Act for the Defense Security Cooperation Agency in 
     ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'' may be used to 
     provide assistance to the Government of Jordan to support the 
     armed forces of Jordan and to enhance security along its 
     borders.
       Sec. 9012.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     under the heading ``Counter-ISIL Train and Equip Fund'' may 
     be used to procure or transfer man-portable air defense 
     systems.
       Sec. 9013.  For the ``Ukraine Security Assistance 
     Initiative'', $150,000,000 is hereby appropriated, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, That such 
     funds shall be available to the Secretary of Defense, in 
     coordination with the Secretary of State, to provide 
     assistance, including training; equipment; lethal weapons of 
     a defensive nature; logistics support, supplies and services; 
     sustainment; and intelligence support to the military and 
     national security forces of Ukraine, and for replacement of 
     any weapons or defensive articles provided to the Government 
     of Ukraine from the inventory of the United States:  Provided 
     further, That the Secretary of Defense shall, not less than 
     15 days prior to obligating funds provided under this 
     heading, notify the congressional defense committees in 
     writing of the details of any such obligation:  Provided 
     further, That

[[Page H7014]]

     the United States may accept equipment procured using funds 
     provided under this heading in this or prior Acts that was 
     transferred to the security forces of Ukraine and returned by 
     such forces to the United States:  Provided further, That 
     equipment procured using funds provided under this heading in 
     this or prior Acts, and not yet transferred to the military 
     or National Security Forces of Ukraine or returned by such 
     forces to the United States, may be treated as stocks of the 
     Department of Defense upon written notification to the 
     congressional defense committees:  Provided further, That 
     amounts made available by this section are designated by the 
     Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
     Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
       Sec. 9014.  Funds appropriated in this title shall be 
     available for replacement of funds for items provided to the 
     Government of Ukraine from the inventory of the United States 
     to the extent specifically provided for in section 9013 of 
     this Act.
       Sec. 9015.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     under section 9013 for ``Assistance and Sustainment to the 
     Military and National Security Forces of Ukraine'' may be 
     used to procure or transfer man-portable air defense systems.
       Sec. 9016. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available by this Act under the heading ``Operation and 
     Maintenance, Defense-Wide'' for payments under section 1233 
     of Public Law 110-181 for reimbursement to the Government of 
     Pakistan may be made available unless the Secretary of 
     Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State, 
     certifies to the congressional defense committees that the 
     Government of Pakistan is--
       (1) cooperating with the United States in counterterrorism 
     efforts against the Haqqani Network, the Quetta Shura 
     Taliban, Lashkar e-Tayyiba, Jaish-e-Mohammed, Al Qaeda, and 
     other domestic and foreign terrorist organizations, including 
     taking steps to end support for such groups and prevent them 
     from basing and operating in Pakistan and carrying out cross 
     border attacks into neighboring countries;
       (2) not supporting terrorist activities against United 
     States or coalition forces in Afghanistan, and Pakistan's 
     military and intelligence agencies are not intervening extra-
     judicially into political and judicial processes in Pakistan;
       (3) dismantling improvised explosive device (IED) networks 
     and interdicting precursor chemicals used in the manufacture 
     of IEDs;
       (4) preventing the proliferation of nuclear-related 
     material and expertise;
       (5) implementing policies to protect judicial independence 
     and due process of law;
       (6) issuing visas in a timely manner for United States 
     visitors engaged in counterterrorism efforts and assistance 
     programs in Pakistan; and
       (7) providing humanitarian organizations access to 
     detainees, internally displaced persons, and other Pakistani 
     civilians affected by the conflict.
       (b) The Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the 
     Secretary of State, may waive the restriction in subsection 
     (a) on a case-by-case basis by certifying in writing to the 
     congressional defense committees that it is in the national 
     security interest to do so:  Provided, That if the Secretary 
     of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State, 
     exercises such waiver authority, the Secretaries shall report 
     to the congressional defense committees on both the 
     justification for the waiver and on the requirements of this 
     section that the Government of Pakistan was not able to meet: 
      Provided further, That such report may be submitted in 
     classified form if necessary.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 9017.  In addition to amounts otherwise made available 
     in this Act, $500,000,000 is hereby appropriated to the 
     Department of Defense and made available for transfer only to 
     the operation and maintenance, military personnel, and 
     procurement accounts, to improve the intelligence, 
     surveillance, and reconnaissance capabilities of the 
     Department of Defense:  Provided, That the transfer authority 
     provided in this section is in addition to any other transfer 
     authority provided elsewhere in this Act:  Provided further, 
     That not later than 30 days prior to exercising the transfer 
     authority provided in this section, the Secretary of Defense 
     shall submit a report to the congressional defense committees 
     on the proposed uses of these funds:  Provided further, That 
     the funds provided in this section may not be transferred to 
     any program, project, or activity specifically limited or 
     denied by this Act:  Provided further, That amounts made 
     available by this section are designated by the Congress for 
     Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
     pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
     and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985:  Provided further, 
     That the authority to provide funding under this section 
     shall terminate on September 30, 2018.
       Sec. 9018.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     may be used with respect to Syria in contravention of the War 
     Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1541 et seq.), including for the 
     introduction of United States armed or military forces into 
     hostilities in Syria, into situations in Syria where imminent 
     involvement in hostilities is clearly indicated by the 
     circumstances, or into Syrian territory, airspace, or waters 
     while equipped for combat, in contravention of the 
     congressional consultation and reporting requirements of 
     sections 3 and 4 of that law (50 U.S.C. 1542 and 1543).

                             (rescissions)

       Sec. 9019.  Of the funds appropriated in Department of 
     Defense Appropriations Acts, the following funds are hereby 
     rescinded from the following accounts and programs in the 
     specified amounts:  Provided, That such amounts are 
     designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985:
       ``Other Procurement, Air Force'', 2017/2019, $25,100,000;
       ``Afghanistan Security Forces Fund'', 2017/2018, 
     $100,000,000; and
       ``Counter-ISIL Train and Equip Fund'', 2017/2018, 
     $112,513,000.
       ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide, DSCA Coalition 
     Support Fund'', 2017/2018, $350,000,000.
       Sec. 9020.  Each amount designated in this Act by the 
     Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
     Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 
     shall be available only if the President subsequently so 
     designates all such amounts and transmits such designations 
     to the Congress.
       Sec. 9021. (a) Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to Congress 
     a report on the United States strategy to defeat Al-Qaeda, 
     the Taliban, the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS), and 
     their associated forces and co-belligerents.
       (b) The report required under subsection (a) shall include 
     the following:
       (1) An analysis of the adequacy of the existing legal 
     framework to accomplish the strategy described in subsection 
     (a), particularly with respect to the Authorization for Use 
     of Military Force (Public Law 107-40; 50 U.S.C. 1541 note) 
     and the Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Iraq 
     Resolution of 2002 (Public Law 107-243; 50 U.S.C. 1541 note).
       (2) An analysis of the budgetary resources necessary to 
     accomplish the strategy described in subsection (a).
       (c) Not later than 30 days after the date on which the 
     President submits to the appropriate congressional committees 
     the report required by subsection (a), the Secretary of State 
     and the Secretary of Defense shall testify at any hearing 
     held by any of the appropriate congressional committees on 
     the report and to which the Secretary is invited.
       (d) In this section, the term ``appropriate congressional 
     committees'' means--
       (1) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on 
     Armed Services of the Senate; and
       (2) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on 
     Armed Services of the House of Representatives.

                 TITLE X--ADDITIONAL GENERAL PROVISIONS

                           references to act

       Sec. 10001.  Except as expressly provided otherwise, any 
     reference to ``this Act'' contained in this division shall be 
     treated as referring only to the provisions of this division.

                          references to report

       Sec. 10002.  Any reference to a ``report accompanying this 
     Act'' contained in this division shall be treated as a 
     reference to House Report 115-219. The effect of such Report 
     shall be limited to this division and shall apply for 
     purposes of determining the allocation of funds provided by, 
     and the implementation of, this division.

                       spending reduction account

       Sec. 10003.  $0.
       Sec. 10004.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available under the heading ``Afghanistan Security 
     Forces Fund'' may be used to procure uniforms for the Afghan 
     National Army.
       Sec. 10005.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
     may be used for the closure of a biosafety level 4 
     laboratory.
       Sec. 10006.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     may be used to provide arms, training, or other assistance to 
     the Azov Battalion.
       Sec. 10007.  None of the finds made available by this Act 
     may be used to purchase heavy water from Iran.
       Sec. 10008.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may 
     be used to plan for, begin, continue, complete, process, or 
     approve a public-private competition under the Office of 
     Management and Budget Circular A-76.
       This division may be cited as the ``Department of Defense 
     Appropriations Act, 2018''.

        DIVISION J--LEGISLATIVE BRANCH APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2018

        The following sums are appropriated, out of any money in 
     the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the Legislative 
     Branch for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2018, and for 
     other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                           LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                         Salaries and Expenses

       For salaries and expenses of the House of Representatives, 
     $1,194,050,766 (increased by $250,000), as follows:

                        House Leadership Offices

       For salaries and expenses, as authorized by law, 
     $22,278,891, including: Office of the

[[Page H7015]]

     Speaker, $6,645,417, including $25,000 for official expenses 
     of the Speaker; Office of the Majority Floor Leader, 
     $2,180,048, including $10,000 for official expenses of the 
     Majority Leader; Office of the Minority Floor Leader, 
     $7,114,471, including $10,000 for official expenses of the 
     Minority Leader; Office of the Majority Whip, including the 
     Chief Deputy Majority Whip, $1,886,632, including $5,000 for 
     official expenses of the Majority Whip; Office of the 
     Minority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Minority Whip, 
     $1,459,639, including $5,000 for official expenses of the 
     Minority Whip; Republican Conference, $1,505,426; Democratic 
     Caucus, $1,487,258: Provided, That such amount for salaries 
     and expenses shall remain available from January 3, 2018 
     until January 2, 2019.

                  Members' Representational Allowances

   Including Members' Clerk Hire, Official Expenses of Members, and 
                             Official Mail

       For Members' representational allowances, including 
     Members' clerk hire, official expenses, and official mail, 
     $562,632,498 (reduced by $11,025,000) (increased by 
     $11,025,000).

                          Committee Employees

                Standing Committees, Special and Select

       For salaries and expenses of standing committees, special 
     and select, authorized by House resolutions, $127,053,373: 
     Provided, That such amount shall remain available for such 
     salaries and expenses until December 31, 2018, except that 
     $3,150,200 of such amount shall remain available until 
     expended for committee room upgrading.

                      Committee on Appropriations

       For salaries and expenses of the Committee on 
     Appropriations, $23,226,000, including studies and 
     examinations of executive agencies and temporary personal 
     services for such committee, to be expended in accordance 
     with section 202(b) of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 
     1946 and to be available for reimbursement to agencies for 
     services performed: Provided, That such amount shall remain 
     available for such salaries and expenses until December 31, 
     2018.

                    Salaries, Officers and Employees

       For compensation and expenses of officers and employees, as 
     authorized by law, $198,156,000, including: for salaries and 
     expenses of the Office of the Clerk, including the positions 
     of the Chaplain and the Historian, and including not more 
     than $25,000 for official representation and reception 
     expenses, of which not more than $20,000 is for the Family 
     Room and not more than $2,000 is for the Office of the 
     Chaplain, $27,945,000; for salaries and expenses of the 
     Office of the Sergeant at Arms, including the position of 
     Superintendent of Garages and the Office of Emergency 
     Management, and including not more than $3,000 for official 
     representation and reception expenses, $20,505,000 of which 
     $6,696,000 shall remain available until expended; for 
     salaries and expenses of the Office of the Chief 
     Administrative Officer including not more than $3,000 for 
     official representation and reception expenses, $127,165,000, 
     of which $2,108,000 shall remain available until expended; 
     for salaries and expenses of the Office of the Inspector 
     General, $4,968,000; for salaries and expenses of the Office 
     of General Counsel, $1,492,000; for salaries and expenses of 
     the Office of the Parliamentarian, including the 
     Parliamentarian, $2,000 for preparing the Digest of Rules, 
     and not more than $1,000 for official representation and 
     reception expenses, $2,037,000; for salaries and expenses of 
     the Office of the Law Revision Counsel of the House, 
     $3,209,000; for salaries and expenses of the Office of the 
     Legislative Counsel of the House, $9,437,000; for salaries 
     and expenses of the Office of Interparliamentary Affairs, 
     $814,000; for other authorized employees, $584,000.

                        Allowances and Expenses

       For allowances and expenses as authorized by House 
     resolution or law, $260,704,004 (increased by $250,000), 
     including: supplies, materials, administrative costs and 
     Federal tort claims, $3,625,000; official mail for 
     committees, leadership offices, and administrative offices of 
     the House, $190,000; Government contributions for health, 
     retirement, Social Security, and other applicable employee 
     benefits, $233,540,004, to remain available until March 31, 
     2019; Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery, $16,186,000 
     of which $5,000,000 shall remain available until expended; 
     transition activities for new members and staff, $2,273,000, 
     to remain available until expended; Wounded Warrior Program 
     $2,500,000 (increased by $250,000), to remain available until 
     expended; Office of Congressional Ethics, $1,670,000; and 
     miscellaneous items including purchase, exchange, 
     maintenance, repair and operation of House motor vehicles, 
     interparliamentary receptions, and gratuities to heirs of 
     deceased employees of the House, $720,000.

                       Administrative Provisions

requiring amounts remaining in members' representational allowances to 
      be used for deficit reduction or to reduce the federal debt

       Sec. 101. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     any amounts appropriated under this Act for ``HOUSE OF 
     REPRESENTATIVES--Salaries and Expenses--Members' 
     Representational Allowances'' shall be available only for 
     fiscal year 2018. Any amount remaining after all payments are 
     made under such allowances for fiscal year 2018 shall be 
     deposited in the Treasury and used for deficit reduction (or, 
     if there is no Federal budget deficit after all such payments 
     have been made, for reducing the Federal debt, in such manner 
     as the Secretary of the Treasury considers appropriate).
       (b) Regulations.--The Committee on House Administration of 
     the House of Representatives shall have authority to 
     prescribe regulations to carry out this section.
       (c) Definition.--As used in this section, the term ``Member 
     of the House of Representatives'' means a Representative in, 
     or a Delegate or Resident Commissioner to, the Congress.

                   delivery of bills and resolutions

       Sec. 102.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used to deliver a printed copy of a bill, joint 
     resolution, or resolution to the office of a Member of the 
     House of Representatives (including a Delegate or Resident 
     Commissioner to the Congress) unless the Member requests a 
     copy.

                    delivery of congressional record

       Sec. 103.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to deliver a printed copy of any version of the 
     Congressional Record to the office of a Member of the House 
     of Representatives (including a Delegate or Resident 
     Commissioner to the Congress).

            limitation on amount available to lease vehicles

       Sec. 104.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used by the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of 
     Representatives to make any payments from any Members' 
     Representational Allowance for the leasing of a vehicle, 
     excluding mobile district offices, in an aggregate amount 
     that exceeds $1,000 for the vehicle in any month.

           limitation on printed copies of u.s. code to house

       Sec. 105.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to provide an aggregate number of more than 50 
     printed copies of any edition of the United States Code to 
     all offices of the House of Representatives.

                  delivery of reports of disbursements

       Sec. 106.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to deliver a printed copy of the report of 
     disbursements for the operations of the House of 
     Representatives under section 106 of the House of 
     Representatives Administrative Reform Technical Corrections 
     Act (2 U.S.C. 5535) to the office of a Member of the House of 
     Representatives (including a Delegate or Resident 
     Commissioner to the Congress).

                       delivery of daily calendar

       Sec. 107.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to deliver to the office of a Member of the House of 
     Representatives (including a Delegate or Resident 
     Commissioner to the Congress) a printed copy of the Daily 
     Calendar of the House of Representatives which is prepared by 
     the Clerk of the House of Representatives.

             delivery of congressional pictorial directory

       Sec. 108.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to deliver a printed copy of the Congressional 
     Pictorial Directory to the office of a Member of the House of 
     Representatives (including a Delegate or Resident 
     Commissioner to the Congress).

               amending the house services revolving fund

       Sec. 109. (a) Collection of Certain Service Fees.--Section 
     105(a) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2005 (2 
     U.S.C. 5545(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following 
     new paragraph:
       ``(7) The collection of a service fee from vendors of the 
     Master Web Services Agreement or the Technology Services 
     Contract for failure to abide by and maintain House of 
     Representatives security policies.''.
       (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) 
     shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.

                      adjustments to compensation

       Sec. 110.  Not withstanding any other provision of law, no 
     adjustment shall be made under section 601(a) of the 
     Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 4501) 
     (relating to cost of living adjustments for Members of 
     Congress) during fiscal year 2018.

                              JOINT ITEMS

       For Joint Committees, as follows:

                        Joint Economic Committee

       For salaries and expenses of the Joint Economic Committee, 
     $4,203,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.

                      Joint Committee on Taxation

       For salaries and expenses of the Joint Committee on 
     Taxation, $10,455,000, to be disbursed by the Chief 
     Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives.
       For other joint items, as follows:

                   Office of the Attending Physician

       For medical supplies, equipment, and contingent expenses of 
     the emergency rooms, and for the Attending Physician and his 
     assistants, including:
       (1) an allowance of $2,175 per month to the Attending 
     Physician;
       (2) an allowance of $1,300 per month to the Senior Medical 
     Officer;
       (3) an allowance of $725 per month each to three medical 
     officers while on duty in the Office of the Attending 
     Physician;
       (4) an allowance of $725 per month to 2 assistants and $580 
     per month each not to exceed 11 assistants on the basis 
     heretofore provided for such assistants; and
       (5) $2,780,000 for reimbursement to the Department of the 
     Navy for expenses incurred for staff and equipment assigned 
     to the Office of the Attending Physician, which shall be 
     advanced and credited to the applicable

[[Page H7016]]

     appropriation or appropriations from which such salaries, 
     allowances, and other expenses are payable and shall be 
     available for all the purposes thereof, $3,838,000, to be 
     disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of 
     Representatives.

             Office of Congressional Accessibility Services

                         Salaries and Expenses

       For salaries and expenses of the Office of Congressional 
     Accessibility Services, $1,444,000, to be disbursed by the 
     Secretary of the Senate.

                        Administrative Provision

       Sec. 1001. (a) Establishment of Senior Level Positions.--
     Notwithstanding any order issued by the Speaker of the House 
     of Representatives pursuant to paragraph (1) of section 
     311(d) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1988 (2 
     U.S.C. 4532(1)), the chair of the Joint Committee on Taxation 
     may establish and fix the compensation of senior level 
     positions in the staff of the Joint Committee to meet 
     critical scientific, technical, professional, or executive 
     needs of the Joint Committee.
       (b) Limitation on Compensation.--The annual rate of pay for 
     any position established under this section may not exceed 
     the annual rate of pay for level II of the Executive 
     Schedule.
       (c) Conforming Amendment.-- Subsection (e) of section 214 
     of the Postal Revenue and Federal Salary Act of 1967 (2 
     U.S.C. 4302) is repealed.
       (d) Effective Date.--This section shall apply with respect 
     to fiscal year 2018 and each succeeding fiscal year.

                             CAPITOL POLICE

                                Salaries

       For salaries of employees of the Capitol Police, including 
     overtime, hazardous duty pay, and Government contributions 
     for health, retirement, social security, professional 
     liability insurance, and other applicable employee benefits, 
     $347,700,000 of which overtime shall not exceed $45,000,000 
     unless the Committee on Appropriations of the House and 
     Senate are notified, to be disbursed by the Chief of the 
     Capitol Police or his designee.

                            General Expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Capitol Police, including 
     motor vehicles, communications and other equipment, security 
     equipment and installation, uniforms, weapons, supplies, 
     materials, training, medical services, forensic services, 
     stenographic services, personal and professional services, 
     the employee assistance program, the awards program, postage, 
     communication services, travel advances, relocation of 
     instructor and liaison personnel for the Federal Law 
     Enforcement Training Center, and not more than $5,000 to be 
     expended on the certification of the Chief of the Capitol 
     Police in connection with official representation and 
     reception expenses, $74,800,000, to be disbursed by the Chief 
     of the Capitol Police or his designee: Provided, That, 
     notwithstanding any other provision of law, the cost of basic 
     training for the Capitol Police at the Federal Law 
     Enforcement Training Center for fiscal year 2018 shall be 
     paid by the Secretary of Homeland Security from funds 
     available to the Department of Homeland Security.

                          OFFICE OF COMPLIANCE

                         Salaries and Expenses

       For salaries and expenses of the Office of Compliance, as 
     authorized by section 305 of the Congressional Accountability 
     Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1385), $3,959,000, of which $450,000 
     shall remain available until September 30, 2019: Provided, 
     That not more than $500 may be expended on the certification 
     of the Executive Director of the Office of Compliance in 
     connection with official representation and reception 
     expenses.

                      CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE

                         Salaries and Expenses

       For salaries and expenses necessary for operation of the 
     Congressional Budget Office, including not more than $6,000 
     to be expended on the certification of the Director of the 
     Congressional Budget Office in connection with official 
     representation and reception expenses, $48,500,000.

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                  Capital Construction and Operations

       For salaries for the Architect of the Capitol, and other 
     personal services, at rates of pay provided by law; for all 
     necessary expenses for surveys and studies, construction, 
     operation, and general and administrative support in 
     connection with facilities and activities under the care of 
     the Architect of the Capitol including the Botanic Garden; 
     electrical substations of the Capitol, Senate and House 
     office buildings, and other facilities under the jurisdiction 
     of the Architect of the Capitol; including furnishings and 
     office equipment; including not more than $5,000 for official 
     reception and representation expenses, to be expended as the 
     Architect of the Capitol may approve; for purchase or 
     exchange, maintenance, and operation of a passenger motor 
     vehicle, $93,000,000 (reduced by $250,000) (reduced by 
     $100,000) (increased by $100,000).

                            Capitol Building

       For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and 
     operation of the Capitol, $45,300,000, of which $19,458,000 
     shall remain available until September 30, 2022.

                            Capitol Grounds

       For all necessary expenses for care and improvement of 
     grounds surrounding the Capitol, the Senate and House office 
     buildings, and the Capitol Power Plant, $13,333,000, of which 
     $3,195,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2022.

                         House Office Buildings

       For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and 
     operation of the House office buildings, $169,294,000, of 
     which $45,130,000 shall remain available until September 30, 
     2022, and of which $62,000,000 shall remain available until 
     expended for the restoration and renovation of the Cannon 
     House Office Building.
       In addition, for a payment to the House Historic Buildings 
     Revitalization Trust Fund, $10,000,000, to remain available 
     until expended.

                          Capitol Power Plant

       For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and 
     operation of the Capitol Power Plant; lighting, heating, 
     power (including the purchase of electrical energy) and water 
     and sewer services for the Capitol, Senate and House office 
     buildings, Library of Congress buildings, and the grounds 
     about the same, Botanic Garden, Senate garage, and air 
     conditioning refrigeration not supplied from plants in any of 
     such buildings; heating the Government Publishing Office and 
     Washington City Post Office, and heating and chilled water 
     for air conditioning for the Supreme Court Building, the 
     Union Station complex, the Thurgood Marshall Federal 
     Judiciary Building and the Folger Shakespeare Library, 
     expenses for which shall be advanced or reimbursed upon 
     request of the Architect of the Capitol and amounts so 
     received shall be deposited into the Treasury to the credit 
     of this appropriation, $106,694,000, of which $28,057,000 
     shall remain available until September 30, 2022: Provided, 
     That not more than $9,000,000 of the funds credited or to be 
     reimbursed to this appropriation as herein provided shall be 
     available for obligation during fiscal year 2018.

                     Library Buildings and Grounds

       For all necessary expenses for the mechanical and 
     structural maintenance, care and operation of the Library 
     buildings and grounds, $76,097,000, of which $48,724,000 
     shall remain available until September 30, 2022.

             Capitol Police Buildings, Grounds and Security

       For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and 
     operation of buildings, grounds and security enhancements of 
     the United States Capitol Police, wherever located, the 
     Alternate Computer Facility, and Architect of the Capitol 
     security operations, $33,249,000, of which $12,300,000 shall 
     remain available until September 30, 2022.

                             Botanic Garden

       For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and 
     operation of the Botanic Garden and the nurseries, buildings, 
     grounds, and collections; and purchase and exchange, 
     maintenance, repair, and operation of a passenger motor 
     vehicle; all under the direction of the Joint Committee on 
     the Library, $13,400,000, of which $2,600,000 shall remain 
     available until September 30, 2022: Provided, That, of the 
     amount made available under this heading, the Architect of 
     the Capitol may obligate and expend such sums as may be 
     necessary for the maintenance, care and operation of the 
     National Garden established under section 307E of the 
     Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1989 (2 U.S.C. 2146), 
     upon vouchers approved by the Architect of the Capitol or a 
     duly authorized designee.

                         Capitol Visitor Center

       For all necessary expenses for the operation of the Capitol 
     Visitor Center, $21,470,000.

                       Administrative Provisions

       no bonuses for contractors behind schedule or over budget

       Sec. 1101.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
     for the Architect of the Capitol may be used to make 
     incentive or award payments to contractors for work on 
     contracts or programs for which the contractor is behind 
     schedule or over budget, unless the Architect of the Capitol, 
     or agency-employed designee, determines that any such 
     deviations are due to unforeseeable events, government-driven 
     scope changes, or are not significant within the overall 
     scope of the project and/or program.

                                 scrims

       Sec. 1102.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
     may be used for scrims containing photographs of building 
     facades during restoration or construction projects performed 
     by the Architect of the Capitol.

                          LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

                         Salaries and Expenses

       For all necessary expenses of the Library of Congress not 
     otherwise provided for, including development and maintenance 
     of the Library's catalogs; custody and custodial care of the 
     Library buildings; special clothing; cleaning, laundering and 
     repair of uniforms; preservation of motion pictures in the 
     custody of the Library; operation and maintenance of the 
     American Folklife Center in the Library; preparation and 
     distribution of catalog records and other publications of the 
     Library; hire or purchase of one passenger motor vehicle; and 
     expenses of the Library of Congress Trust Fund Board not 
     properly chargeable to the income of any trust fund held by 
     the Board, $464,209,234, of which not more than $6,000,000 
     shall be derived from

[[Page H7017]]

     collections credited to this appropriation during fiscal year 
     2018, and shall remain available until expended, under the 
     Act of June 28, 1902 (chapter 1301; 32 Stat. 480; 2 U.S.C. 
     150) and not more than $350,000 shall be derived from 
     collections during fiscal year 2018 and shall remain 
     available until expended for the development and maintenance 
     of an international legal information database and activities 
     related thereto: Provided, That the Library of Congress may 
     not obligate or expend any funds derived from collections 
     under the Act of June 28, 1902, in excess of the amount 
     authorized for obligation or expenditure in appropriations 
     Acts: Provided further, That the total amount available for 
     obligation shall be reduced by the amount by which 
     collections are less than $6,350,000: Provided further, That, 
     of the total amount appropriated, not more than $12,000 may 
     be expended, on the certification of the Librarian of 
     Congress, in connection with official representation and 
     reception expenses for the Overseas Field Offices: Provided 
     further, That, of the total amount appropriated, $8,653,000 
     shall remain available until expended for the digital 
     collections and educational curricula program: Provided 
     further, That, of the total amount appropriated, $1,300,000 
     shall remain available until expended for upgrade of the 
     Legislative Branch Financial Management System.

                            Copyright Office

                         salaries and expenses

       For all necessary expenses of the Copyright Office, 
     $72,011,000, of which not more than $35,218,000, to remain 
     available until expended, shall be derived from collections 
     credited to this appropriation during fiscal year 2018 under 
     section 708(d) of title 17, United States Code: Provided, 
     That the Copyright Office may not obligate or expend any 
     funds derived from collections under such section, in excess 
     of the amount authorized for obligation or expenditure in 
     appropriations Acts: Provided further, That not more than 
     $6,087,000 shall be derived from collections during fiscal 
     year 2018 under sections 111(d)(2), 119(b)(3), 803(e), 1005, 
     and 1316 of such title: Provided further, That the total 
     amount available for obligation shall be reduced by the 
     amount by which collections are less than $41,305,000: 
     Provided further, That not more than $100,000 of the amount 
     appropriated is available for the maintenance of an 
     ``International Copyright Institute'' in the Copyright Office 
     of the Library of Congress for the purpose of training 
     nationals of developing countries in intellectual property 
     laws and policies: Provided further, That $2,260,000 shall be 
     derived from prior year unobligated balances: Provided 
     further, That not more than $6,500 may be expended, on the 
     certification of the Librarian of Congress, in connection 
     with official representation and reception expenses for 
     activities of the International Copyright Institute and for 
     copyright delegations, visitors, and seminars: Provided 
     further, That, notwithstanding any provision of chapter 8 of 
     title 17, United States Code, any amounts made available 
     under this heading which are attributable to royalty fees and 
     payments received by the Copyright Office pursuant to 
     sections 111, 119, and chapter 10 of such title may be used 
     for the costs incurred in the administration of the Copyright 
     Royalty Judges program, with the exception of the costs of 
     salaries and benefits for the Copyright Royalty Judges and 
     staff under section 802(e).

                     Congressional Research Service

                         salaries and expenses

       For all necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
     section 203 of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 
     U.S.C. 166) and to revise and extend the Annotated 
     Constitution of the United States of America, $111,474,000: 
     Provided, That no part of such amount may be used to pay any 
     salary or expense in connection with any publication, or 
     preparation of material therefor (except the Digest of Public 
     General Bills), to be issued by the Library of Congress 
     unless such publication has obtained prior approval of either 
     the Committee on House Administration of the House of 
     Representatives or the Committee on Rules and Administration 
     of the Senate.

             Books for the Blind and Physically Handicapped

                         salaries and expenses

       For all necessary expenses to carry out the Act of March 3, 
     1931 (chapter 400; 46 Stat. 1487; 2 U.S.C. 135a), 
     $50,248,000: Provided, That, of the total amount 
     appropriated, $650,000 shall be available to contract to 
     provide newspapers to blind and physically handicapped 
     residents at no cost to the individual.

                        Administrative Provision

               reimbursable and revolving fund activities

       Sec. 1201. (a) In General.--For fiscal year 2018, the 
     obligational authority of the Library of Congress for the 
     activities described in subsection (b) may not exceed 
     $190,642,000.
       (b) Activities.--The activities referred to in subsection 
     (a) are reimbursable and revolving fund activities that are 
     funded from sources other than appropriations to the Library 
     in appropriations Acts for the legislative branch.

                      GOVERNMENT PUBLISHING OFFICE

                        Congressional Publishing

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For authorized publishing of congressional information and 
     the distribution of congressional information in any format; 
     publishing of Government publications authorized by law to be 
     distributed to Members of Congress; and publishing, and 
     distribution of Government publications authorized by law to 
     be distributed without charge to the recipient, $79,528,000: 
     Provided, That this appropriation shall not be available for 
     paper copies of the permanent edition of the Congressional 
     Record for individual Representatives, Resident Commissioners 
     or Delegates authorized under section 906 of title 44, United 
     States Code: Provided further, That this appropriation shall 
     be available for the payment of obligations incurred under 
     the appropriations for similar purposes for preceding fiscal 
     years: Provided further, That notwithstanding the 2-year 
     limitation under section 718 of title 44, United States Code, 
     none of the funds appropriated or made available under this 
     Act or any other Act for printing and binding and related 
     services provided to Congress under chapter 7 of title 44, 
     United States Code, may be expended to print a document, 
     report, or publication after the 27-month period beginning on 
     the date that such document, report, or publication is 
     authorized by Congress to be printed, unless Congress 
     reauthorizes such printing in accordance with section 718 of 
     title 44, United States Code: Provided further, That any 
     unobligated or unexpended balances in this account or 
     accounts for similar purposes for preceding fiscal years may 
     be transferred to the Government Publishing Office Business 
     Operations Revolving Fund for carrying out the purposes of 
     this heading, subject to the approval of the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate: 
     Provided further, That notwithstanding sections 901, 902, and 
     906 of title 44, United States Code, this appropriation may 
     be used to prepare indexes to the Congressional Record on 
     only a monthly and session basis.

     Public Information Programs of the Superintendent of Documents

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For expenses of the public information programs of the 
     Office of Superintendent of Documents necessary to provide 
     for the cataloging and indexing of Government publications 
     and their distribution to the public, Members of Congress, 
     other Government agencies, and designated depository and 
     international exchange libraries as authorized by law, 
     $29,000,000: Provided, That amounts of not more than 
     $2,000,000 from current year appropriations are authorized 
     for producing and disseminating Congressional serial sets and 
     other related publications for fiscal years 2016 and 2017 to 
     depository and other designated libraries: Provided further, 
     That any unobligated or unexpended balances in this account 
     or accounts for similar purposes for preceding fiscal years 
     may be transferred to the Government Publishing Office 
     Business Operations Revolving Fund for carrying out the 
     purposes of this heading, subject to the approval of the 
     Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
     and Senate.

    Government Publishing Office Business Operations Revolving Fund

       For payment to the Government Publishing Office Business 
     Operations Revolving Fund, $8,540,000, to remain available 
     until expended, for information technology development and 
     facilities repair: Provided, That the Government Publishing 
     Office is hereby authorized to make such expenditures, within 
     the limits of funds available and in accordance with law, and 
     to make such contracts and commitments without regard to 
     fiscal year limitations as provided by section 9104 of title 
     31, United States Code, as may be necessary in carrying out 
     the programs and purposes set forth in the budget for the 
     current fiscal year for the Government Publishing Office 
     Business Operations Revolving Fund: Provided further, That 
     not more than $7,500 may be expended on the certification of 
     the Director of the Government Publishing Office in 
     connection with official representation and reception 
     expenses: Provided further, That the business operations 
     revolving fund shall be available for the hire or purchase of 
     not more than 12 passenger motor vehicles: Provided further, 
     That expenditures in connection with travel expenses of the 
     advisory councils to the Director of the Government 
     Publishing Office shall be deemed necessary to carry out the 
     provisions of title 44, United States Code: Provided further, 
     That the business operations revolving fund shall be 
     available for temporary or intermittent services under 
     section 3109(b) of title 5, United States Code, but at rates 
     for individuals not more than the daily equivalent of the 
     annual rate of basic pay for level V of the Executive 
     Schedule under section 5316 of such title: Provided further, 
     That activities financed through the business operations 
     revolving fund may provide information in any format: 
     Provided further, That the business operations revolving fund 
     and the funds provided under the heading ``Public Information 
     Programs of the Superintendent of Documents'' may not be used 
     for contracted security services at the Government Publishing 
     Office's passport facility in the District of Columbia.

                    GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE

                         Salaries and Expenses

       For necessary expenses of the Government Accountability 
     Office, including not more than $12,500 to be expended on the 
     certification of the Comptroller General of the

[[Page H7018]]

     United States in connection with official representation and 
     reception expenses; temporary or intermittent services under 
     section 3109(b) of title 5, United States Code, but at rates 
     for individuals not more than the daily equivalent of the 
     annual rate of basic pay for level IV of the Executive 
     Schedule under section 5315 of such title; hire of one 
     passenger motor vehicle; advance payments in foreign 
     countries in accordance with section 3324 of title 31, United 
     States Code; benefits comparable to those payable under 
     sections 901(5), (6), and (8) of the Foreign Service Act of 
     1980 (22 U.S.C. 4081(5), (6), and (8)); and under regulations 
     prescribed by the Comptroller General of the United States, 
     rental of living quarters in foreign countries, $544,505,919: 
     Provided, That, in addition, $23,800,000 of payments received 
     under sections 782, 791, 3521, and 9105 of title 31, United 
     States Code, shall be available without fiscal year 
     limitation: Provided further, That this appropriation and 
     appropriations for administrative expenses of any other 
     department or agency which is a member of the National 
     Intergovernmental Audit Forum or a Regional Intergovernmental 
     Audit Forum shall be available to finance an appropriate 
     share of either Forum's costs as determined by the respective 
     Forum, including necessary travel expenses of non-Federal 
     participants: Provided further, That payments hereunder to 
     the Forum may be credited as reimbursements to any 
     appropriation from which costs involved are initially 
     financed.

                OPEN WORLD LEADERSHIP CENTER TRUST FUND

       For a payment to the Open World Leadership Center Trust 
     Fund for financing activities of the Open World Leadership 
     Center under section 313 of the Legislative Branch 
     Appropriations Act, 2001 (2 U.S.C. 1151), $5,600,000: 
     Provided, That funds made available to support Russian 
     participants shall only be used for those engaging in free 
     market development, humanitarian activities, and civic 
     engagement, and shall not be used for officials of the 
     central government of Russia.

   John C. Stennis Center for Public Service Training and Development

       For payment to the John C. Stennis Center for Public 
     Service Development Trust Fund established under section 116 
     of the John C. Stennis Center for Public Service Training and 
     Development Act (2 U.S.C. 1105), $430,000.

                                TITLE II

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                maintenance and care of private vehicles

       Sec. 201.  No part of the funds appropriated in this Act 
     shall be used for the maintenance or care of private 
     vehicles, except for emergency assistance and cleaning as may 
     be provided under regulations relating to parking facilities 
     for the House of Representatives issued by the Committee on 
     House Administration and for the Senate issued by the 
     Committee on Rules and Administration.

                         fiscal year limitation

       Sec. 202.  No part of the funds appropriated in this Act 
     shall remain available for obligation beyond fiscal year 2018 
     unless expressly so provided in this Act.

                 rates of compensation and designation

       Sec. 203.  Whenever in this Act any office or position not 
     specifically established by the Legislative Pay Act of 1929 
     (46 Stat. 32 et seq.) is appropriated for or the rate of 
     compensation or designation of any office or position 
     appropriated for is different from that specifically 
     established by such Act, the rate of compensation and the 
     designation in this Act shall be the permanent law with 
     respect thereto: Provided, That the provisions in this Act 
     for the various items of official expenses of Members, 
     officers, and committees of the Senate and House of 
     Representatives, and clerk hire for Senators and Members of 
     the House of Representatives shall be the permanent law with 
     respect thereto.

                          consulting services

       Sec. 204.  The expenditure of any appropriation under this 
     Act for any consulting service through procurement contract, 
     under section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, shall be 
     limited to those contracts where such expenditures are a 
     matter of public record and available for public inspection, 
     except where otherwise provided under existing law, or under 
     existing Executive order issued under existing law.

                             costs of lbfmc

       Sec. 205.  Amounts available for administrative expenses of 
     any legislative branch entity which participates in the 
     Legislative Branch Financial Managers Council (LBFMC) 
     established by charter on March 26, 1996, shall be available 
     to finance an appropriate share of LBFMC costs as determined 
     by the LBFMC, except that the total LBFMC costs to be shared 
     among all participating legislative branch entities (in such 
     allocations among the entities as the entities may determine) 
     may not exceed $2,000.

                        limitation on transfers

       Sec. 206.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality 
     of the United States Government, except pursuant to a 
     transfer made by, or transfer authority provided in, this Act 
     or any other appropriation Act.

                      guided tours of the capitol

       Sec. 207. (a) Except as provided in subsection (b), none of 
     the funds made available to the Architect of the Capitol in 
     this Act may be used to eliminate or restrict guided tours of 
     the United States Capitol which are led by employees and 
     interns of offices of Members of Congress and other offices 
     of the House of Representatives and Senate.
       (b) At the direction of the Capitol Police Board, or at the 
     direction of the Architect of the Capitol with the approval 
     of the Capitol Police Board, guided tours of the United 
     States Capitol which are led by employees and interns 
     described in subsection (a) may be suspended temporarily or 
     otherwise subject to restriction for security or related 
     reasons to the same extent as guided tours of the United 
     States Capitol which are led by the Architect of the Capitol.

                           references to act

       Sec. 208.  Except as expressly provided otherwise, any 
     reference to ``this Act'' contained in this division shall be 
     treated as referring only to the provisions of this division.

                          references to report

       Sec. 209.  Any reference to a ``report accompanying this 
     Act'' contained in this division shall be treated as a 
     reference to House Report 115-199. The effect of such Report 
     shall be limited to this division and shall apply for 
     purposes of determining the allocation of funds provided by, 
     and the implementation of, this division.

                       spending reduction account

       Sec. 210.  $0.
       Sec. 211.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to deliver a printed copy of the Federal Register to 
     the office of a Member of the House of Representatives 
     (including a Delegate or Resident Commissioner to the 
     Congress), unless a printed copy is requested by the Member 
     (or Delegate or Resident Commissioner).
       This division may be cited as the ``Legislative Branch 
     Appropriations Act, 2018''.

   DIVISION K--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, VETERANS AFFAIRS, AND RELATED 
                   AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2018

        The following sums are appropriated, out of any money in 
     the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for military 
     construction, the Department of Veterans Affairs, and related 
     agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2018, and 
     for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                         DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                      Military Construction, Army

       For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment 
     of temporary or permanent public works, military 
     installations, facilities, and real property for the Army as 
     currently authorized by law, including personnel in the Army 
     Corps of Engineers and other personal services necessary for 
     the purposes of this appropriation, and for construction and 
     operation of facilities in support of the functions of the 
     Commander in Chief, $923,994,000, to remain available until 
     September 30, 2022:  Provided, That, of this amount, not to 
     exceed $101,470,000 shall be available for study, planning, 
     design, architect and engineer services, and host nation 
     support, as authorized by law, unless the Secretary of the 
     Army determines that additional obligations are necessary for 
     such purposes and notifies the Committees on Appropriations 
     of both Houses of Congress of the determination and the 
     reasons therefor.

              Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps

       For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment 
     of temporary or permanent public works, naval installations, 
     facilities, and real property for the Navy and Marine Corps 
     as currently authorized by law, including personnel in the 
     Naval Facilities Engineering Command and other personal 
     services necessary for the purposes of this appropriation, 
     $1,558,085,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022: 
      Provided, That, of this amount, not to exceed $219,069,000 
     shall be available for study, planning, design, and architect 
     and engineer services, as authorized by law, unless the 
     Secretary of the Navy determines that additional obligations 
     are necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees 
     on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the 
     determination and the reasons therefor.

                    Military Construction, Air Force

       For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment 
     of temporary or permanent public works, military 
     installations, facilities, and real property for the Air 
     Force as currently authorized by law, $1,540,474,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2022:  Provided, That, 
     of this amount, not to exceed $97,852,000 shall be available 
     for study, planning, design, and architect and engineer 
     services, as authorized by law, unless the Secretary of the 
     Air Force determines that additional obligations are 
     necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees on 
     Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the 
     determination and the reasons therefor.

                  Military Construction, Defense-Wide

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment 
     of temporary or permanent public works, installations, 
     facilities, and real property for activities and agencies of 
     the Department of Defense (other than the military 
     departments), as currently authorized by law, $2,791,272,000, 
     to remain available until September 30, 2022:  Provided, That 
     such amounts of this appropriation as may be determined by 
     the Secretary of Defense may be transferred to such 
     appropriations of the Department of Defense available for

[[Page H7019]]

     military construction or family housing as the Secretary may 
     designate, to be merged with and to be available for the same 
     purposes, and for the same time period, as the appropriation 
     or fund to which transferred:  Provided further, That, of the 
     amount, not to exceed $185,717,000 shall be available for 
     study, planning, design, and architect and engineer services, 
     as authorized by law, unless the Secretary of Defense 
     determines that additional obligations are necessary for such 
     purposes and notifies the Committees on Appropriations of 
     both Houses of Congress of the determination and the reasons 
     therefor.

               Military Construction, Army National Guard

       For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, 
     and conversion of facilities for the training and 
     administration of the Army National Guard, and contributions 
     therefor, as authorized by chapter 1803 of title 10, United 
     States Code, and Military Construction Authorization Acts, 
     $210,652,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022:  
     Provided, That, of the amount, not to exceed $16,271,000 
     shall be available for study, planning, design, and architect 
     and engineer services, as authorized by law, unless the 
     Director of the Army National Guard determines that 
     additional obligations are necessary for such purposes and 
     notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
     Congress of the determination and the reasons therefor.

               Military Construction, Air National Guard

       For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, 
     and conversion of facilities for the training and 
     administration of the Air National Guard, and contributions 
     therefor, as authorized by chapter 1803 of title 10, United 
     States Code, and Military Construction Authorization Acts, 
     $161,491,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022:  
     Provided, That, of the amount, not to exceed $18,000,000 
     shall be available for study, planning, design, and architect 
     and engineer services, as authorized by law, unless the 
     Director of the Air National Guard determines that additional 
     obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the 
     Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of 
     the determination and the reasons therefor.

                  Military Construction, Army Reserve

       For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, 
     and conversion of facilities for the training and 
     administration of the Army Reserve as authorized by chapter 
     1803 of title 10, United States Code, and Military 
     Construction Authorization Acts, $73,712,000, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2022:  Provided, That, of the 
     amount, not to exceed $6,887,000 shall be available for 
     study, planning, design, and architect and engineer services, 
     as authorized by law, unless the Chief of the Army Reserve 
     determines that additional obligations are necessary for such 
     purposes and notifies the Committees on Appropriations of 
     both Houses of Congress of the determination and the reasons 
     therefor.

                  Military Construction, Navy Reserve

       For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, 
     and conversion of facilities for the training and 
     administration of the reserve components of the Navy and 
     Marine Corps as authorized by chapter 1803 of title 10, 
     United States Code, and Military Construction Authorization 
     Acts, $65,271,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2022:  Provided, That, of the amount, not to exceed 
     $4,430,000 shall be available for study, planning, design, 
     and architect and engineer services, as authorized by law, 
     unless the Secretary of the Navy determines that additional 
     obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the 
     Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of 
     the determination and the reasons therefor.

                Military Construction, Air Force Reserve

       For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, 
     and conversion of facilities for the training and 
     administration of the Air Force Reserve as authorized by 
     chapter 1803 of title 10, United States Code, and Military 
     Construction Authorization Acts, $63,535,000, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2022:  Provided, That, of the 
     amount, not to exceed $4,725,000 shall be available for 
     study, planning, design, and architect and engineer services, 
     as authorized by law, unless the Chief of the Air Force 
     Reserve determines that additional obligations are necessary 
     for such purposes and notifies the Committees on 
     Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the 
     determination and the reasons therefor: Provided further,  
     That, the Chief of the Air Force Reserve shall take immediate 
     action to address unfunded military construction requirements 
     for access control points and security issues at Air Force 
     Reserve facilities.

                   North Atlantic Treaty Organization

                      Security Investment Program

       For the United States share of the cost of the North 
     Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program for 
     the acquisition and construction of military facilities and 
     installations (including international military headquarters) 
     and for related expenses for the collective defense of the 
     North Atlantic Treaty Area as authorized by section 2806 of 
     title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
     Authorization Acts, $177,932,000, to remain available until 
     expended.

               Department of Defense Base Closure Account

       For deposit into the Department of Defense Base Closure 
     Account, established by section 2906(a) of the Defense Base 
     Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (10 U.S.C. 2687 note), 
     $290,867,000, to remain available until expended.

                   Family Housing Construction, Army

       For expenses of family housing for the Army for 
     construction, including acquisition, replacement, addition, 
     expansion, extension, and alteration, as authorized by law, 
     $182,662,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022.

             Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Army

       For expenses of family housing for the Army for operation 
     and maintenance, including debt payment, leasing, minor 
     construction, principal and interest charges, and insurance 
     premiums, as authorized by law, $346,625,000.

           Family Housing Construction, Navy and Marine Corps

       For expenses of family housing for the Navy and Marine 
     Corps for construction, including acquisition, replacement, 
     addition, expansion, extension, and alteration, as authorized 
     by law, $83,682,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2022.

    Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Navy and Marine Corps

       For expenses of family housing for the Navy and Marine 
     Corps for operation and maintenance, including debt payment, 
     leasing, minor construction, principal and interest charges, 
     and insurance premiums, as authorized by law, $328,282,000.

                 Family Housing Construction, Air Force

       For expenses of family housing for the Air Force for 
     construction, including acquisition, replacement, addition, 
     expansion, extension, and alteration, as authorized by law, 
     $85,062,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022.

          Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

       For expenses of family housing for the Air Force for 
     operation and maintenance, including debt payment, leasing, 
     minor construction, principal and interest charges, and 
     insurance premiums, as authorized by law, $318,324,000.

         Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

       For expenses of family housing for the activities and 
     agencies of the Department of Defense (other than the 
     military departments) for operation and maintenance, leasing, 
     and minor construction, as authorized by law, $59,169,000.

         Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund

       For the Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement 
     Fund, $2,726,000, to remain available until expended, for 
     family housing initiatives undertaken pursuant to section 
     2883 of title 10, United States Code, providing alternative 
     means of acquiring and improving military family housing and 
     supporting facilities.

 Department of Defense Military Unaccompanied Housing Improvement Fund

       For the Department of Defense Military Unaccompanied 
     Housing Improvement Fund, $623,000, to remain available until 
     expended, for unaccompanied housing initiatives undertaken 
     pursuant to section 2883 of title 10, United States Code, 
     providing alternative means of acquiring and improving 
     military unaccompanied housing and supporting facilities.

                       Administrative Provisions

       Sec. 101.  None of the funds made available in this title 
     shall be expended for payments under a cost-plus-a-fixed-fee 
     contract for construction, where cost estimates exceed 
     $25,000, to be performed within the United States, except 
     Alaska, without the specific approval in writing of the 
     Secretary of Defense setting forth the reasons therefor.
       Sec. 102.  Funds made available in this title for 
     construction shall be available for hire of passenger motor 
     vehicles.
       Sec. 103.  Funds made available in this title for 
     construction may be used for advances to the Federal Highway 
     Administration, Department of Transportation, for the 
     construction of access roads as authorized by section 210 of 
     title 23, United States Code, when projects authorized 
     therein are certified as important to the national defense by 
     the Secretary of Defense.
       Sec. 104.  None of the funds made available in this title 
     may be used to begin construction of new bases in the United 
     States for which specific appropriations have not been made.
       Sec. 105.  None of the funds made available in this title 
     shall be used for purchase of land or land easements in 
     excess of 100 percent of the value as determined by the Army 
     Corps of Engineers or the Naval Facilities Engineering 
     Command, except: (1) where there is a determination of value 
     by a Federal court; (2) purchases negotiated by the Attorney 
     General or the designee of the Attorney General; (3) where 
     the estimated value is less than $25,000; or (4) as otherwise 
     determined by the Secretary of Defense to be in the public 
     interest.
       Sec. 106.  None of the funds made available in this title 
     shall be used to: (1) acquire land; (2) provide for site 
     preparation; or (3) install utilities for any family housing, 
     except housing for which funds have been made available

[[Page H7020]]

     in annual Acts making appropriations for military 
     construction.
       Sec. 107.  None of the funds made available in this title 
     for minor construction may be used to transfer or relocate 
     any activity from one base or installation to another, 
     without prior notification to the Committees on 
     Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
       Sec. 108.  None of the funds made available in this title 
     may be used for the procurement of steel for any construction 
     project or activity for which American steel producers, 
     fabricators, and manufacturers have been denied the 
     opportunity to compete for such steel procurement.
       Sec. 109.  None of the funds available to the Department of 
     Defense for military construction or family housing during 
     the current fiscal year may be used to pay real property 
     taxes in any foreign nation.
       Sec. 110.  None of the funds made available in this title 
     may be used to initiate a new installation overseas without 
     prior notification to the Committees on Appropriations of 
     both Houses of Congress.
       Sec. 111.  None of the funds made available in this title 
     may be obligated for architect and engineer contracts 
     estimated by the Government to exceed $500,000 for projects 
     to be accomplished in Japan, in any North Atlantic Treaty 
     Organization member country, or in countries bordering the 
     Arabian Gulf, unless such contracts are awarded to United 
     States firms or United States firms in joint venture with 
     host nation firms.
       Sec. 112.  None of the funds made available in this title 
     for military construction in the United States territories 
     and possessions in the Pacific and on Kwajalein Atoll, or in 
     countries bordering the Arabian Gulf, may be used to award 
     any contract estimated by the Government to exceed $1,000,000 
     to a foreign contractor:  Provided, That this section shall 
     not be applicable to contract awards for which the lowest 
     responsive and responsible bid of a United States contractor 
     exceeds the lowest responsive and responsible bid of a 
     foreign contractor by greater than 20 percent:  Provided 
     further, That this section shall not apply to contract awards 
     for military construction on Kwajalein Atoll for which the 
     lowest responsive and responsible bid is submitted by a 
     Marshallese contractor.
       Sec. 113.  The Secretary of Defense shall inform the 
     appropriate committees of both Houses of Congress, including 
     the Committees on Appropriations, of plans and scope of any 
     proposed military exercise involving United States personnel 
     30 days prior to its occurring, if amounts expended for 
     construction, either temporary or permanent, are anticipated 
     to exceed $100,000.
       Sec. 114.  Funds appropriated to the Department of Defense 
     for construction in prior years shall be available for 
     construction authorized for each such military department by 
     the authorizations enacted into law during the current 
     session of Congress.
       Sec. 115.  For military construction or family housing 
     projects that are being completed with funds otherwise 
     expired or lapsed for obligation, expired or lapsed funds may 
     be used to pay the cost of associated supervision, 
     inspection, overhead, engineering and design on those 
     projects and on subsequent claims, if any.
       Sec. 116.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any 
     funds made available to a military department or defense 
     agency for the construction of military projects may be 
     obligated for a military construction project or contract, or 
     for any portion of such a project or contract, at any time 
     before the end of the fourth fiscal year after the fiscal 
     year for which funds for such project were made available, if 
     the funds obligated for such project: (1) are obligated from 
     funds available for military construction projects; and (2) 
     do not exceed the amount appropriated for such project, plus 
     any amount by which the cost of such project is increased 
     pursuant to law.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 117.  Subject to 30 days prior notification, or 14 
     days for a notification provided in an electronic medium 
     pursuant to sections 480 and 2883 of title 10, United States 
     Code, to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
     Congress, such additional amounts as may be determined by the 
     Secretary of Defense may be transferred to: (1) the 
     Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund from 
     amounts appropriated for construction in ``Family Housing'' 
     accounts, to be merged with and to be available for the same 
     purposes and for the same period of time as amounts 
     appropriated directly to the Fund; or (2) the Department of 
     Defense Military Unaccompanied Housing Improvement Fund from 
     amounts appropriated for construction of military 
     unaccompanied housing in ``Military Construction'' accounts, 
     to be merged with and to be available for the same purposes 
     and for the same period of time as amounts appropriated 
     directly to the Fund:  Provided, That appropriations made 
     available to the Funds shall be available to cover the costs, 
     as defined in section 502(5) of the Congressional Budget Act 
     of 1974, of direct loans or loan guarantees issued by the 
     Department of Defense pursuant to the provisions of 
     subchapter IV of chapter 169 of title 10, United States Code, 
     pertaining to alternative means of acquiring and improving 
     military family housing, military unaccompanied housing, and 
     supporting facilities.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 118.  In addition to any other transfer authority 
     available to the Department of Defense, amounts may be 
     transferred from the Department of Defense Base Closure 
     Account to the fund established by section 1013(d) of the 
     Demonstration Cities and Metropolitan Development Act of 1966 
     (42 U.S.C. 3374) to pay for expenses associated with the 
     Homeowners Assistance Program incurred under 42 U.S.C. 
     3374(a)(1)(A). Any amounts transferred shall be merged with 
     and be available for the same purposes and for the same time 
     period as the fund to which transferred.
       Sec. 119.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     funds made available in this title for operation and 
     maintenance of family housing shall be the exclusive source 
     of funds for repair and maintenance of all family housing 
     units, including general or flag officer quarters:  Provided, 
     That not more than $15,000 per unit may be spent annually for 
     the maintenance and repair of any general or flag officer 
     quarters without 30 days prior notification, or 14 days for a 
     notification provided in an electronic medium pursuant to 
     sections 480 and 2883 of title 10, United States Code, to the 
     Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress, 
     except that an after-the-fact notification shall be submitted 
     if the limitation is exceeded solely due to costs associated 
     with environmental remediation that could not be reasonably 
     anticipated at the time of the budget submission.
       Sec. 120.  Amounts contained in the Ford Island Improvement 
     Account established by subsection (h) of section 2814 of 
     title 10, United States Code, are appropriated and shall be 
     available until expended for the purposes specified in 
     subsection (i)(1) of such section or until transferred 
     pursuant to subsection (i)(3) of such section.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 121.  During the 5-year period after appropriations 
     available in this Act to the Department of Defense for 
     military construction and family housing operation and 
     maintenance and construction have expired for obligation, 
     upon a determination that such appropriations will not be 
     necessary for the liquidation of obligations or for making 
     authorized adjustments to such appropriations for obligations 
     incurred during the period of availability of such 
     appropriations, unobligated balances of such appropriations 
     may be transferred into the appropriation ``Foreign Currency 
     Fluctuations, Construction, Defense'', to be merged with and 
     to be available for the same time period and for the same 
     purposes as the appropriation to which transferred.
       Sec. 122. (a) Except as provided in subsection (b), none of 
     the funds made available in this Act may be used by the 
     Secretary of the Army to relocate a unit in the Army that--
       (1) performs a testing mission or function that is not 
     performed by any other unit in the Army and is specifically 
     stipulated in title 10, United States Code; and
       (2) is located at a military installation at which the 
     total number of civilian employees of the Department of the 
     Army and Army contractor personnel employed exceeds 10 
     percent of the total number of members of the regular and 
     reserve components of the Army assigned to the installation.
       (b) Exception.--Subsection (a) shall not apply if the 
     Secretary of the Army certifies to the congressional defense 
     committees that in proposing the relocation of the unit of 
     the Army, the Secretary complied with Army Regulation 5-10 
     relating to the policy, procedures, and responsibilities for 
     Army stationing actions.
       Sec. 123.  Amounts appropriated or otherwise made available 
     in an account funded under the headings in this title may be 
     transferred among projects and activities within the account 
     in accordance with the reprogramming guidelines for military 
     construction and family housing construction contained in 
     Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation 
     7000.14-R, Volume 3, Chapter 7, of March 2011, as in effect 
     on the date of enactment of this Act.
       Sec. 124.  None of the funds made available in this title 
     may be obligated or expended for planning and design and 
     construction of projects at Arlington National Cemetery.
       Sec. 125.  For an additional amount for the accounts and in 
     the amounts specified, to remain available until September 
     30, 2022:
       ``Military Construction, Army'', $43,800,000;
       ``Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps'', 
     $126,900,000;
       ``Military Construction, Air Force'', $70,300,000;
       ``Military Construction, Army National Guard'', 
     $56,000,000;
       ``Military Construction, Army Reserve'', $56,000,000;
       ``Military Construction, Air National Guard'', $41,900,000; 
     and
       ``Military Construction, Air Force Reserve'', $44,100,000:
       Provided, That such funds may only be obligated to carry 
     out construction projects identified in the respective 
     military department's unfunded priority list for fiscal year 
     2018 submitted to Congress by the Secretary of Defense:  
     Provided further, That such projects are subject to 
     authorization prior to obligation and expenditure of funds to 
     carry out construction:  Provided further, That not later 
     than 30 days after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
     the military department concerned, or his or her designee, 
     shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations of both 
     Houses of Congress an expenditure plan for funds provided 
     under this section.

                         (rescissions of funds)

       Sec. 126.  Of the unobligated balances available to the 
     Department of Defense from prior

[[Page H7021]]

     appropriation Acts, the following funds are hereby rescinded 
     from the following accounts in the amounts specified:
       ``Military Construction, Army'', $10,000,000;
       ``Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps'', 
     $10,000,000;
       ``Military Construction, Defense-Wide'', $27,440,000;
       ``North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment 
     Program'', $25,000,000;
       ``Family Housing Construction, Army'', $18,000,000;
       ``Family Housing Construction, Navy and Marine Corps'', 
     $8,000,000; and
       ``Family Housing Construction, Air Force'', $20,000,000:
       Provided, That no amounts may be rescinded from amounts 
     that were designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism or as an emergency 
     requirement pursuant to a concurrent resolution on the budget 
     or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
     1985, as amended.
       Sec. 127.  For the purposes of this Act, the term 
     ``congressional defense committees'' means the Committees on 
     Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the 
     Senate, the Subcommittee on Military Construction and 
     Veterans Affairs of the Committee on Appropriations of the 
     Senate, and the Subcommittee on Military Construction and 
     Veterans Affairs of the Committee on Appropriations of the 
     House of Representatives.
       Sec. 128.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to carry out the closure or realignment of the United 
     States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

                                TITLE II

                     DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS

                    Veterans Benefits Administration

                       compensation and pensions

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For the payment of compensation benefits to or on behalf of 
     veterans and a pilot program for disability examinations as 
     authorized by section 107 and chapters 11, 13, 18, 51, 53, 
     55, and 61 of title 38, United States Code; pension benefits 
     to or on behalf of veterans as authorized by chapters 15, 51, 
     53, 55, and 61 of title 38, United States Code; and burial 
     benefits, the Reinstated Entitlement Program for Survivors, 
     emergency and other officers' retirement pay, adjusted-
     service credits and certificates, payment of premiums due on 
     commercial life insurance policies guaranteed under the 
     provisions of title IV of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act 
     (50 U.S.C. App. 541 et seq.) and for other benefits as 
     authorized by sections 107, 1312, 1977, and 2106, and 
     chapters 23, 51, 53, 55, and 61 of title 38, United States 
     Code, $95,768,462,000, to remain available until expended and 
     to become available on October 1, 2018:  Provided, That not 
     to exceed $17,882,000 of the amount made available for fiscal 
     year 2019 under this heading shall be reimbursed to ``General 
     Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration'', and 
     ``Information Technology Systems'' for necessary expenses in 
     implementing the provisions of chapters 51, 53, and 55 of 
     title 38, United States Code, the funding source for which is 
     specifically provided as the ``Compensation and Pensions'' 
     appropriation:  Provided further, That such sums as may be 
     earned on an actual qualifying patient basis, shall be 
     reimbursed to ``Medical Care Collections Fund'' to augment 
     the funding of individual medical facilities for nursing home 
     care provided to pensioners as authorized.

                         readjustment benefits

       For the payment of readjustment and rehabilitation benefits 
     to or on behalf of veterans as authorized by chapters 21, 30, 
     31, 33, 34, 35, 36, 39, 41, 51, 53, 55, and 61 of title 38, 
     United States Code, $11,832,175,000, to remain available 
     until expended and to become available on October 1, 2018:  
     Provided, That expenses for rehabilitation program services 
     and assistance which the Secretary is authorized to provide 
     under subsection (a) of section 3104 of title 38, United 
     States Code, other than under paragraphs (1), (2), (5), and 
     (11) of that subsection, shall be charged to this account.

                   veterans insurance and indemnities

       For military and naval insurance, national service life 
     insurance, servicemen's indemnities, service-disabled 
     veterans insurance, and veterans mortgage life insurance as 
     authorized by chapters 19 and 21, title 38, United States 
     Code, $121,529,000, which shall be in addition to remain 
     available until expended, which shall be in addition to funds 
     previously appropriated under this heading that became 
     available on October 1, 2017, of which $109,090,000 shall 
     become available on October 1, 2018.

                 veterans housing benefit program fund

       For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, such sums as 
     may be necessary to carry out the program, as authorized by 
     subchapters I through III of chapter 37 of title 38, United 
     States Code:  Provided, That such costs, including the cost 
     of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 
     of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  Provided further, 
     That, during fiscal year 2018, within the resources 
     available, not to exceed $500,000 in gross obligations for 
     direct loans are authorized for specially adapted housing 
     loans.
       In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the 
     direct and guaranteed loan programs, $178,626,000.

            vocational rehabilitation loans program account

       For the cost of direct loans, $30,000, as authorized by 
     chapter 31 of title 38, United States Code:  Provided, That 
     such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall 
     be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act 
     of 1974:  Provided further, That funds made available under 
     this heading are available to subsidize gross obligations for 
     the principal amount of direct loans not to exceed 
     $2,356,000.
       In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry 
     out the direct loan program, $395,000, which may be paid to 
     the appropriation for ``General Operating Expenses, Veterans 
     Benefits Administration''.

          native american veteran housing loan program account

       For administrative expenses to carry out the direct loan 
     program authorized by subchapter V of chapter 37 of title 38, 
     United States Code, $1,163,000.

      general operating expenses, veterans benefits administration

       For necessary operating expenses of the Veterans Benefits 
     Administration, not otherwise provided for, including hire of 
     passenger motor vehicles, reimbursement of the General 
     Services Administration for security guard services, and 
     reimbursement of the Department of Defense for the cost of 
     overseas employee mail, $2,894,000,000 (increased by 
     $5,000,000):  Provided, That expenses for services and 
     assistance authorized under paragraphs (1), (2), (5), and 
     (11) of section 3104(a) of title 38, United States Code, that 
     the Secretary of Veterans Affairs determines are necessary to 
     enable entitled veterans: (1) to the maximum extent feasible, 
     to become employable and to obtain and maintain suitable 
     employment; or (2) to achieve maximum independence in daily 
     living, shall be charged to this account:  Provided further, 
     That, of the funds made available under this heading, not to 
     exceed 5 percent shall remain available until September 30, 
     2019.

                     Veterans Health Administration

                            medical services

       For necessary expenses for furnishing, as authorized by 
     law, inpatient and outpatient care and treatment to 
     beneficiaries of the Department of Veterans Affairs and 
     veterans described in section 1705(a) of title 38, United 
     States Code, including care and treatment in facilities not 
     under the jurisdiction of the Department, and including 
     medical supplies and equipment, bioengineering services, food 
     services, and salaries and expenses of healthcare employees 
     hired under title 38, United States Code, aid to State homes 
     as authorized by section 1741 of title 38, United States 
     Code, assistance and support services for caregivers as 
     authorized by section 1720G of title 38, United States Code, 
     loan repayments authorized by section 604 of the Caregivers 
     and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 2010 (Public Law 
     111-163; 124 Stat. 1174; 38 U.S.C. 7681 note), and hospital 
     care and medical services authorized by section 1787 of title 
     38, United States Code; $1,031,808,000 (reduced by 
     $1,031,808,000) (increased by $1,031,808,000) (reduced by 
     $2,500,000) (increased by $2,500,000) (reduced by $2,000,000) 
     (increased by $2,000,000) (reduced by $5,000,000) (increased 
     by $5,000,000), which shall be in addition to funds 
     previously appropriated under this heading that became 
     available on October 1, 2017; and, in addition, 
     $49,161,165,000, plus reimbursements, shall become available 
     on October 1, 2018, and shall remain available until 
     September 30, 2019:  Provided, That, of the amount made 
     available on October 1, 2018, under this heading, 
     $1,400,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 
     2020:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other 
     provision of law, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
     establish a priority for the provision of medical treatment 
     for veterans who have service-connected disabilities, lower 
     income, or have special needs:  Provided further, That, 
     notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of 
     Veterans Affairs shall give priority funding for the 
     provision of basic medical benefits to veterans in enrollment 
     priority groups 1 through 6:  Provided further, That, 
     notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of 
     Veterans Affairs may authorize the dispensing of prescription 
     drugs from Veterans Health Administration facilities to 
     enrolled veterans with privately written prescriptions based 
     on requirements established by the Secretary:  Provided 
     further, That the implementation of the program described in 
     the previous proviso shall incur no additional cost to the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs.

                         medical community care

       For necessary expenses for furnishing health care to 
     individuals pursuant to chapter 17 of title 38, United States 
     Code, at non-Department facilities, $254,000,000 (reduced by 
     $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000), which shall be in 
     addition to funds previously appropriated under this heading 
     that became available on October 1, 2017; and, in addition, 
     $8,384,704,000, plus reimbursements, shall become available 
     on October 1, 2018, and shall remain available until 
     September 30, 2019:  Provided, That of the amount made 
     available on October 1, 2018, under this heading, 
     $2,000,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 
     2022.

                     medical support and compliance

       For necessary expenses in the administration of the 
     medical, hospital, nursing home, domiciliary, construction, 
     supply, and research activities, as authorized by law; 
     administrative expenses in support of capital policy 
     activities; and administrative and legal expenses of the 
     Department for collecting and recovering amounts owed the 
     Department as authorized under chapter 17 of

[[Page H7022]]

     title 38, United States Code, and the Federal Medical Care 
     Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 2651 et seq.), $284,397,000, which 
     shall be in addition to funds previously appropriated under 
     this heading that became available on October 1, 2017; and, 
     in addition, $7,239,156,000, plus reimbursements, shall 
     become available on October 1, 2018, and shall remain 
     available until September 30, 2019:  Provided, That, of the 
     amount made available on October 1, 2018, under this heading, 
     $100,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2020.

                           medical facilities

       For necessary expenses for the maintenance and operation of 
     hospitals, nursing homes, domiciliary facilities, and other 
     necessary facilities of the Veterans Health Administration; 
     for administrative expenses in support of planning, design, 
     project management, real property acquisition and 
     disposition, construction, and renovation of any facility 
     under the jurisdiction or for the use of the Department; for 
     oversight, engineering, and architectural activities not 
     charged to project costs; for repairing, altering, improving, 
     or providing facilities in the several hospitals and homes 
     under the jurisdiction of the Department, not otherwise 
     provided for, either by contract or by the hire of temporary 
     employees and purchase of materials; for leases of 
     facilities; and for laundry services; $1,079,795,000, which 
     shall be in addition to funds previously appropriated under 
     this heading that became available on October 1, 2017; and, 
     in addition, $5,914,288,000, plus reimbursements, shall 
     become available on October 1, 2018, and shall remain 
     available until September 30, 2019:  Provided, That, of the 
     amount made available on October 1, 2018, under this heading, 
     $250,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2020.

                    medical and prosthetic research

       For necessary expenses in carrying out programs of medical 
     and prosthetic research and development as authorized by 
     chapter 73 of title 38, United States Code, $698,228,000, 
     plus reimbursements, shall remain available until September 
     30, 2019.

                    National Cemetery Administration

       For necessary expenses of the National Cemetery 
     Administration for operations and maintenance, not otherwise 
     provided for, including uniforms or allowances therefor; 
     cemeterial expenses as authorized by law; purchase of one 
     passenger motor vehicle for use in cemeterial operations; 
     hire of passenger motor vehicles; and repair, alteration or 
     improvement of facilities under the jurisdiction of the 
     National Cemetery Administration, $306,193,000, of which not 
     to exceed 10 percent shall remain available until September 
     30, 2019.

                      Departmental Administration

                         general administration

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For necessary operating expenses of the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs, not otherwise provided for, including 
     administrative expenses in support of Department-wide capital 
     planning, management and policy activities, uniforms, or 
     allowances therefor; not to exceed $25,000 for official 
     reception and representation expenses; hire of passenger 
     motor vehicles; and reimbursement of the General Services 
     Administration for security guard services, $346,891,000 
     (reduced by $5,000,000), of which not to exceed 5 percent 
     shall remain available until September 30, 2019:  Provided, 
     That funds provided under this heading may be transferred to 
     ``General Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits 
     Administration''.

                       board of veterans appeals

       For necessary operating expenses of the Board of Veterans 
     Appeals, $156,096,000, of which not to exceed 10 percent 
     shall remain available until September 30, 2019.

                     information technology systems

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For necessary expenses for information technology systems 
     and telecommunications support, including developmental 
     information systems and operational information systems; for 
     pay and associated costs; and for the capital asset 
     acquisition of information technology systems, including 
     management and related contractual costs of said 
     acquisitions, including contractual costs associated with 
     operations authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United 
     States Code, $4,135,500,000, plus reimbursements:  Provided, 
     That $1,230,320,000 shall be for pay and associated costs, of 
     which not to exceed $36,000,000 shall remain available until 
     September 30, 2019:  Provided further, That $2,486,650,000 
     shall be for operations and maintenance, of which not to 
     exceed $174,000,000 shall remain available until September 
     30, 2019:  Provided further, That $418,530,000 shall be for 
     information technology systems development, modernization, 
     and enhancement, and shall remain available until September 
     30, 2019:  Provided further, That amounts made available for 
     information technology systems development, modernization, 
     and enhancement may not be obligated or expended until the 
     Secretary of Veterans Affairs or the Chief Information 
     Officer of the Department of Veterans Affairs submits to the 
     Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a 
     certification of the amounts, in parts or in full, to be 
     obligated and expended for each development project:  
     Provided further, That amounts made available for salaries 
     and expenses, operations and maintenance, and information 
     technology systems development, modernization, and 
     enhancement may be transferred among the three subaccounts 
     after the Secretary of Veterans Affairs requests from the 
     Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress the 
     authority to make the transfer and an approval is issued:  
     Provided further, That amounts made available for the 
     ``Information Technology Systems'' account for development, 
     modernization, and enhancement may be transferred among 
     projects or to newly defined projects:  Provided further, 
     That no project may be increased or decreased by more than 
     $1,000,000 of cost prior to submitting a request to the 
     Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress to 
     make the transfer and an approval is issued, or absent a 
     response, a period of 30 days has elapsed:  Provided further, 
     That funds under this heading may be used by the Interagency 
     Program Office through the Department of Veterans Affairs to 
     define data standards, code sets, and value sets used to 
     enable interoperability:  Provided further, That, of the 
     funds made available for information technology systems 
     development, modernization, and enhancement for the 
     development of an electronic health record, not more than 25 
     percent may be obligated or expended until the Secretary of 
     Veterans Affairs submits to the Committees on Appropriations 
     of both Houses of Congress:
       (1) a detailed explanation of the solicitation submitted to 
     Cerner Corporation for development of an electronic health 
     record for the Department of Veterans Affairs;
       (2) an explanation of how the electronic health record 
     would replicate the Military Health System (MHS) Genesis 
     record developed by Cerner for the Department of Defense, as 
     well as the enhanced capabilities the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs requires to achieve complete interoperability with 
     the Department of Defense system and non-Department of 
     Veterans Affairs providers who participate in the Department 
     of Veterans Affairs healthcare system;
       (3) a strategic plan for development of the electronic 
     health record system, an associated implementation plan 
     including timelines and performance milestones, a master 
     schedule and annual and life-cycle cost estimates;
       (4) information on plans to maintain current functionality 
     and integration with Department of Defense records during the 
     transition to MHS Genesis; and
       (5) Department of Veterans Affairs plans to manage the 
     transition process to MHS Genesis, including possible pilot 
     programs, training for users, and use of change management 
     tools:
       Provided further, That the funds made available under this 
     heading for information technology systems development, 
     modernization, and enhancement, shall be for the projects, 
     and in the amounts, specified under this heading in the 
     report accompanying this Act.

                      office of inspector general

       For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
     to include information technology, in carrying out the 
     provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. 
     App.), $160,106,000, of which not to exceed 10 percent shall 
     remain available until September 30, 2019.

                      construction, major projects

       For constructing, altering, extending, and improving any of 
     the facilities, including parking projects, under the 
     jurisdiction or for the use of the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs, or for any of the purposes set forth in sections 
     316, 2404, 2406 and chapter 81 of title 38, United States 
     Code, not otherwise provided for, including planning, 
     architectural and engineering services, construction 
     management services, maintenance or guarantee period services 
     costs associated with equipment guarantees provided under the 
     project, services of claims analysts, offsite utility and 
     storm drainage system construction costs, and site 
     acquisition, where the estimated cost of a project is more 
     than the amount set forth in section 8104(a)(3)(A) of title 
     38, United States Code, or where funds for a project were 
     made available in a previous major project appropriation, 
     $410,530,000, of which $372,000,000 shall remain available 
     until September 30, 2022, and of which $38,530,000 shall 
     remain available until expended:  Provided, That except for 
     advance planning activities, including needs assessments 
     which may or may not lead to capital investments, and other 
     capital asset management related activities, including 
     portfolio development and management activities, and 
     investment strategy studies funded through the advance 
     planning fund and the planning and design activities funded 
     through the design fund, including needs assessments which 
     may or may not lead to capital investments, and salaries and 
     associated costs of the resident engineers who oversee those 
     capital investments funded through this account and 
     contracting officers who manage specific major construction 
     projects, and funds provided for the purchase, security, and 
     maintenance of land for the National Cemetery Administration 
     through the land acquisition line item, none of the funds 
     made available under this heading shall be used for any 
     project that has not been notified to Congress through the 
     budgetary process or that has not been approved by the 
     Congress through statute, joint resolution, or in the 
     explanatory statement accompanying such Act and presented to 
     the President at the time of enrollment:  Provided further, 
     That funds made available under this heading for fiscal year 
     2018, for each approved project shall be obligated: (1) by 
     the awarding of a construction documents contract by 
     September 30, 2018; and (2) by the

[[Page H7023]]

     awarding of a construction contract by September 30, 2019:  
     Provided further, That the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
     shall promptly submit to the Committees on Appropriations of 
     both Houses of Congress a written report on any approved 
     major construction project for which obligations are not 
     incurred within the time limitations established above:  
     Provided further, That, of the amount made available under 
     this heading, $117,300,000 for Veterans Health Administration 
     major construction projects shall not be available until the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs--
       (1) enters into an agreement with an appropriate non-
     Department of Veterans Affairs Federal entity to serve as the 
     design and/or construction agent for any Veterans Health 
     Administration major construction project with a Total 
     Estimated Cost of $100,000,000 or above by providing full 
     project management services, including management of the 
     project design, acquisition, construction, and contract 
     changes, consistent with section 502 of Public Law 114-58; 
     and
       (2) certifies in writing that such an agreement is executed 
     and intended to minimize or prevent subsequent major 
     construction project cost overruns and provides a copy of the 
     agreement entered into and any required supplementary 
     information to the Committees on Appropriations of both 
     Houses of Congress.

                      construction, minor projects

       For constructing, altering, extending, and improving any of 
     the facilities, including parking projects, under the 
     jurisdiction or for the use of the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs, including planning and assessments of needs which 
     may lead to capital investments, architectural and 
     engineering services, maintenance or guarantee period 
     services costs associated with equipment guarantees provided 
     under the project, services of claims analysts, offsite 
     utility and storm drainage system construction costs, and 
     site acquisition, or for any of the purposes set forth in 
     sections 316, 2404, 2406 and chapter 81 of title 38, United 
     States Code, not otherwise provided for, where the estimated 
     cost of a project is equal to or less than the amount set 
     forth in section 8104(a)(3)(A) of title 38, United States 
     Code, $342,570,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2022, along with unobligated balances of previous 
     ``Construction, Minor Projects'' appropriations which are 
     hereby made available for any project where the estimated 
     cost is equal to or less than the amount set forth in such 
     section:  Provided, That funds made available under this 
     heading shall be for: (1) repairs to any of the nonmedical 
     facilities under the jurisdiction or for the use of the 
     Department which are necessary because of loss or damage 
     caused by any natural disaster or catastrophe; and (2) 
     temporary measures necessary to prevent or to minimize 
     further loss by such causes.

       grants for construction of state extended care facilities

       For grants to assist States to acquire or construct State 
     nursing home and domiciliary facilities and to remodel, 
     modify, or alter existing hospital, nursing home, and 
     domiciliary facilities in State homes, for furnishing care to 
     veterans as authorized by sections 8131 through 8137 of title 
     38, United States Code, $90,000,000, to remain available 
     until expended.

             grants for construction of veterans cemeteries

       For grants to assist States and tribal organizations in 
     establishing, expanding, or improving veterans cemeteries as 
     authorized by section 2408 of title 38, United States Code, 
     $45,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                       Administrative Provisions

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 201.  Any appropriation for fiscal year 2018 for 
     ``Compensation and Pensions'', ``Readjustment Benefits'', and 
     ``Veterans Insurance and Indemnities'' may be transferred as 
     necessary to any other of the mentioned appropriations:  
     Provided, That, before a transfer may take place, the 
     Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall request from the 
     Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress the 
     authority to make the transfer and such Committees issue an 
     approval, or absent a response, a period of 30 days has 
     elapsed.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 202.  Amounts made available for the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 2018, in this or any other 
     Act, under the ``Medical Services'', ``Medical Community 
     Care'', ``Medical Support and Compliance'', and ``Medical 
     Facilities'' accounts may be transferred among the accounts:  
     Provided, That any transfers among the ``Medical Services'', 
     ``Medical Community Care'', and ``Medical Support and 
     Compliance'' accounts of 1 percent or less of the total 
     amount appropriated to the account in this or any other Act 
     may take place subject to notification from the Secretary of 
     Veterans Affairs to the Committees on Appropriations of both 
     Houses of Congress of the amount and purpose of the transfer: 
      Provided further, That any transfers among the ``Medical 
     Services'', ``Medical Community Care'', and ``Medical Support 
     and Compliance'' accounts in excess of 1 percent, or 
     exceeding the cumulative 1 percent for the fiscal year, may 
     take place only after the Secretary requests from the 
     Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress the 
     authority to make the transfer and an approval is issued:  
     Provided further, That any transfers to or from the ``Medical 
     Facilities'' account may take place only after the Secretary 
     requests from the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
     of Congress the authority to make the transfer and an 
     approval is issued.
       Sec. 203.  Appropriations available in this title for 
     salaries and expenses shall be available for services 
     authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code; 
     hire of passenger motor vehicles; lease of a facility or land 
     or both; and uniforms or allowances therefore, as authorized 
     by sections 5901 through 5902 of title 5, United States Code.
       Sec. 204.  No appropriations in this title (except the 
     appropriations for ``Construction, Major Projects'', and 
     ``Construction, Minor Projects'') shall be available for the 
     purchase of any site for or toward the construction of any 
     new hospital or home.
       Sec. 205.  No appropriations in this title shall be 
     available for hospitalization or examination of any persons 
     (except beneficiaries entitled to such hospitalization or 
     examination under the laws providing such benefits to 
     veterans, and persons receiving such treatment under sections 
     7901 through 7904 of title 5, United States Code, or the 
     Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance 
     Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.)), unless reimbursement of the 
     cost of such hospitalization or examination is made to the 
     ``Medical Services'' account at such rates as may be fixed by 
     the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
       Sec. 206.  Appropriations available in this title for 
     ``Compensation and Pensions'', ``Readjustment Benefits'', and 
     ``Veterans Insurance and Indemnities'' shall be available for 
     payment of prior year accrued obligations required to be 
     recorded by law against the corresponding prior year accounts 
     within the last quarter of fiscal year 2017.
       Sec. 207.  Appropriations available in this title shall be 
     available to pay prior year obligations of corresponding 
     prior year appropriations accounts resulting from sections 
     3328(a), 3334, and 3712(a) of title 31, United States Code, 
     except that if such obligations are from trust fund accounts 
     they shall be payable only from ``Compensation and 
     Pensions''.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 208.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     during fiscal year 2018, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
     shall, from the National Service Life Insurance Fund under 
     section 1920 of title 38, United States Code, the Veterans' 
     Special Life Insurance Fund under section 1923 of title 38, 
     United States Code, and the United States Government Life 
     Insurance Fund under section 1955 of title 38, United States 
     Code, reimburse the ``General Operating Expenses, Veterans 
     Benefits Administration'' and ``Information Technology 
     Systems'' accounts for the cost of administration of the 
     insurance programs financed through those accounts:  
     Provided, That reimbursement shall be made only from the 
     surplus earnings accumulated in such an insurance program 
     during fiscal year 2018 that are available for dividends in 
     that program after claims have been paid and actuarially 
     determined reserves have been set aside:  Provided further, 
     That if the cost of administration of such an insurance 
     program exceeds the amount of surplus earnings accumulated in 
     that program, reimbursement shall be made only to the extent 
     of such surplus earnings:  Provided further, That the 
     Secretary shall determine the cost of administration for 
     fiscal year 2018 which is properly allocable to the provision 
     of each such insurance program and to the provision of any 
     total disability income insurance included in that insurance 
     program.
       Sec. 209.  Amounts deducted from enhanced-use lease 
     proceeds to reimburse an account for expenses incurred by 
     that account during a prior fiscal year for providing 
     enhanced-use lease services, may be obligated during the 
     fiscal year in which the proceeds are received.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 210.  Funds available in this title or funds for 
     salaries and other administrative expenses shall also be 
     available to reimburse the Office of Resolution Management, 
     the Office of Employment Discrimination Complaint 
     Adjudication, the Office of Accountability Review, the 
     Central Whistleblower Office, the Office of Diversity and 
     Inclusion, and the Office of the Executive Director of 
     Accountability and Whistleblower Protection, for all services 
     provided at rates which will recover actual costs but not to 
     exceed $47,668,000 for the Office of Resolution Management, 
     $3,932,000 for the Office of Employment Discrimination 
     Complaint Adjudication, $10,057,000 for the Office of 
     Accountability Review, $6,646,000 for the Central 
     Whistleblower Office, $2,973,000 for the Office of Diversity 
     and Inclusion, and $917,000 for the Office of the Executive 
     Director of Accountability and Whistleblower Protection:  
     Provided, That payments may be made in advance for services 
     to be furnished based on estimated costs:  Provided further, 
     That amounts received shall be credited to the ``General 
     Administration'' and ``Information Technology Systems'' 
     accounts for use by the office that provided the service.
       Sec. 211.  No funds of the Department of Veterans Affairs 
     shall be available for hospital care, nursing home care, or 
     medical services provided to any person under chapter 17 of 
     title 38, United States Code, for a non-service-connected 
     disability described in section 1729(a)(2) of such title, 
     unless that person has disclosed to the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs, in such form as the Secretary may require, current, 
     accurate third-party

[[Page H7024]]

     reimbursement information for purposes of section 1729 of 
     such title:  Provided, That the Secretary may recover, in the 
     same manner as any other debt due the United States, the 
     reasonable charges for such care or services from any person 
     who does not make such disclosure as required:  Provided 
     further, That any amounts so recovered for care or services 
     provided in a prior fiscal year may be obligated by the 
     Secretary during the fiscal year in which amounts are 
     received.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 212.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     proceeds or revenues derived from enhanced-use leasing 
     activities (including disposal) may be deposited into the 
     ``Construction, Major Projects'' and ``Construction, Minor 
     Projects'' accounts and be used for construction (including 
     site acquisition and disposition), alterations, and 
     improvements of any medical facility under the jurisdiction 
     or for the use of the Department of Veterans Affairs. Such 
     sums as realized are in addition to the amount provided for 
     in ``Construction, Major Projects'' and ``Construction, Minor 
     Projects''.
       Sec. 213.  Amounts made available under ``Medical 
     Services'' are available--
       (1) for furnishing recreational facilities, supplies, and 
     equipment; and
       (2) for funeral expenses, burial expenses, and other 
     expenses incidental to funerals and burials for beneficiaries 
     receiving care in the Department.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 214.  Such sums as may be deposited to the Medical 
     Care Collections Fund pursuant to section 1729A of title 38, 
     United States Code, may be transferred to the ``Medical 
     Services'' and ``Medical Community Care'' accounts to remain 
     available until expended for the purposes of these accounts.
       Sec. 215.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may enter into 
     agreements with Federally Qualified Health Centers in the 
     State of Alaska and Indian tribes and tribal organizations 
     which are party to the Alaska Native Health Compact with the 
     Indian Health Service, to provide healthcare, including 
     behavioral health and dental care, to veterans in rural 
     Alaska. The Secretary shall require participating veterans 
     and facilities to comply with all appropriate rules and 
     regulations, as established by the Secretary. The term 
     ``rural Alaska'' shall mean those lands which are not within 
     the boundaries of the municipality of Anchorage or the 
     Fairbanks North Star Borough.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 216.  Such sums as may be deposited to the Department 
     of Veterans Affairs Capital Asset Fund pursuant to section 
     8118 of title 38, United States Code, may be transferred to 
     the ``Construction, Major Projects'' and ``Construction, 
     Minor Projects'' accounts, to remain available until expended 
     for the purposes of these accounts.
       Sec. 217.  Not later than 30 days after the end of each 
     fiscal quarter, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
     submit to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
     Congress a report on the financial status of the Department 
     of Veterans Affairs for the preceding quarter:  Provided, 
     That, at a minimum, the report shall include the direction 
     contained in the paragraph entitled ``Quarterly reporting'', 
     under the heading ``General Administration'' in the joint 
     explanatory statement accompanying Public Law 114-223.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 218.  Amounts made available under the ``Medical 
     Services'', ``Medical Community Care'', ``Medical Support and 
     Compliance'', ``Medical Facilities'', ``General Operating 
     Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration'', ``Board of 
     Veterans Appeals'', ``General Administration'', and 
     ``National Cemetery Administration'' accounts for fiscal year 
     2018 may be transferred to or from the ``Information 
     Technology Systems'' account:  Provided, That such transfers 
     may not result in a more than 10 percent aggregate increase 
     in the total amount made available by this Act for the 
     ``Information Technology Systems'' account:  Provided 
     further, That, before a transfer may take place, the 
     Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall request from the 
     Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress the 
     authority to make the transfer and an approval is issued.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 219.  Of the amounts appropriated to the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 2018 for ``Medical 
     Services'', ``Medical Community Care'', ``Medical Support and 
     Compliance'', ``Medical Facilities'', ``Construction, Minor 
     Projects'', and ``Information Technology Systems'', up to 
     $297,137,000, plus reimbursements, may be transferred to the 
     Joint Department of Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs 
     Medical Facility Demonstration Fund, established by section 
     1704 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 3571) and may be used 
     for operation of the facilities designated as combined 
     Federal medical facilities as described by section 706 of the 
     Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4500):  Provided, 
     That additional funds may be transferred from accounts 
     designated in this section to the Joint Department of 
     Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility 
     Demonstration Fund upon written notification by the Secretary 
     of Veterans Affairs to the Committees on Appropriations of 
     both Houses of Congress:  Provided further, That section 222 
     of title II of division A of Military Construction, Veterans 
     Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2017 
     (Public Law 114-223) is repealed.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 220.  Of the amounts appropriated to the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs which become available on October 1, 2018, 
     for ``Medical Services'', ``Medical Community Care'', 
     ``Medical Support and Compliance'', and ``Medical 
     Facilities'', up to $306,378,000, plus reimbursements, may be 
     transferred to the Joint Department of Defense-Department of 
     Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund, 
     established by section 1704 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 
     123 Stat. 3571) and may be used for operation of the 
     facilities designated as combined Federal medical facilities 
     as described by section 706 of the Duncan Hunter National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 
     110-417; 122 Stat. 4500):  Provided, That additional funds 
     may be transferred from accounts designated in this section 
     to the Joint Department of Defense-Department of Veterans 
     Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund upon written 
     notification by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to the 
     Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 221.  Such sums as may be deposited to the Medical 
     Care Collections Fund pursuant to section 1729A of title 38, 
     United States Code, for healthcare provided at facilities 
     designated as combined Federal medical facilities as 
     described by section 706 of the Duncan Hunter National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 
     110-417; 122 Stat. 4500) shall also be available: (1) for 
     transfer to the Joint Department of Defense-Department of 
     Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund, 
     established by section 1704 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 
     123 Stat. 3571); and (2) for operations of the facilities 
     designated as combined Federal medical facilities as 
     described by section 706 of the Duncan Hunter National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 
     110-417; 122 Stat. 4500).

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 222.  Of the amounts available in this title for 
     ``Medical Services'', ``Medical Community Care'', ``Medical 
     Support and Compliance'', and ``Medical Facilities'', a 
     minimum of $15,000,000 shall be transferred to the DOD-VA 
     Health Care Sharing Incentive Fund, as authorized by section 
     8111(d) of title 38, United States Code, to remain available 
     until expended, for any purpose authorized by section 8111 of 
     title 38, United States Code.
       Sec. 223.  None of the funds available to the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs, in this or any other Act, may be used to 
     replace the current system by which the Veterans Integrated 
     Service Networks select and contract for diabetes monitoring 
     supplies and equipment.
       Sec. 224.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall notify 
     the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 
     of all bid savings in a major construction project that total 
     at least $5,000,000, or 5 percent of the programmed amount of 
     the project, whichever is less:  Provided, That such 
     notification shall occur within 14 days of a contract 
     identifying the programmed amount:  Provided further, That 
     the Secretary shall notify the Committees on Appropriations 
     of both Houses of Congress 14 days prior to the obligation of 
     such bid savings and shall describe the anticipated use of 
     such savings.
       Sec. 225.  None of the funds made available for 
     ``Construction, Major Projects'' may be used for a project in 
     excess of the scope specified for that project in the 
     original justification data provided to the Congress as part 
     of the request for appropriations unless the Secretary of 
     Veterans Affairs receives approval from the Committees on 
     Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
       Sec. 226.  Not later than 30 days after the end of each 
     fiscal quarter, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
     submit to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
     Congress a quarterly report containing performance measures 
     and data from each Veterans Benefits Administration Regional 
     Office:  Provided, That, at a minimum, the report shall 
     include the direction contained in the section entitled 
     ``Disability claims backlog'', under the heading ``General 
     Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration'' in the 
     joint explanatory statement accompanying Public Law 114-223: 
     Provided further, That the report shall also include 
     information on the number of appeals pending at the Veterans 
     Benefits Administration as well as the Board of Veterans 
     Appeals on a quarterly basis.
       Sec. 227.  Of the amounts made available for fiscal year 
     2018 for the ``Medical Services'' and ``Medical Support and 
     Compliance'' accounts, not more than $226,012,000 shall be 
     available to develop an electronic health record: Provided, 
     That not more than 25 percent of the amount made available 
     for such purpose may be obligated or expended until the 
     Secretary of Veterans Affairs submits to the Committees on 
     Appropriations of both House of Congress a detailed 
     explanation of the activities to develop the Military Health 
     System Genesis electronic health record to be funded by the 
     Veterans Health Administration rather than the Office of 
     Information Technology, a timeline for completion, master 
     schedule, performance milestones, and annual and life-cycle

[[Page H7025]]

     Veterans Health Administration cost estimates.
       Sec. 228.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall provide 
     written notification to the Committees on Appropriations of 
     both Houses of Congress 15 days prior to organizational 
     changes which result in the transfer of 25 or more full-time 
     equivalents from one organizational unit of the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs to another.
       Sec. 229.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall provide 
     on a quarterly basis to the Committees on Appropriations of 
     both Houses of Congress notification of any single national 
     outreach and awareness marketing campaign in which 
     obligations exceed $2,000,000.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 230.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs, upon 
     determination that such action is necessary to address needs 
     of the Veterans Health Administration, may transfer to the 
     ``Medical Services'' account any discretionary appropriations 
     made available for fiscal year 2018 in this title (except 
     appropriations made to the ``General Operating Expenses, 
     Veterans Benefits Administration'' account) or any 
     discretionary unobligated balances within the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs, including those appropriated for fiscal 
     year 2018, that were provided in advance by appropriations 
     Acts:  Provided, That transfers shall be made only with the 
     approval of the Office of Management and Budget:  Provided 
     further, That the transfer authority provided in this section 
     is in addition to any other transfer authority provided by 
     law:  Provided further, That no amounts may be transferred 
     from amounts that were designated by Congress as an emergency 
     requirement pursuant to a concurrent resolution on the budget 
     or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
     1985:  Provided further, That such authority to transfer may 
     not be used unless for higher priority items, based on 
     emergent healthcare requirements, than those for which 
     originally appropriated and in no case where the item for 
     which funds are requested has been denied by Congress:  
     Provided further, That, upon determination that all or part 
     of the funds transferred from an appropriation are not 
     necessary, such amounts may be transferred back to that 
     appropriation and shall be available for the same purposes as 
     originally appropriated:  Provided further, That before a 
     transfer may take place, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
     shall request from the Committees on Appropriations of both 
     Houses of Congress the authority to make the transfer and 
     receive approval of that request.

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 231.  Amounts made available for the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 2018, under the ``Board of 
     Veterans Appeals'' and the ``General Operating Expenses, 
     Veterans Benefits Administration'' accounts may be 
     transferred between such accounts:  Provided, That before a 
     transfer may take place, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
     shall request from the Committees on Appropriations of both 
     Houses of Congress the authority to make the transfer and 
     receive approval of that request.
       Sec. 232.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may not 
     reprogram funds among major construction projects or programs 
     if such instance of reprogramming will exceed $5,000,000, 
     unless such reprogramming is approved by the Committees on 
     Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.

                         (rescissions of funds)

       Sec. 233.  Of the discretionary funds made available in 
     Public Law 114-223 for the Department of Veterans Affairs for 
     fiscal year 2018, $313,730,000 are rescinded from ``Medical 
     Services'', $63,282,000 are rescinded from ``Medical Support 
     and Compliance'', and $22,960,000 are rescinded from 
     ``Medical Facilities''.
       Sec. 234.  The amounts otherwise made available by this Act 
     for the following accounts of the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs are hereby reduced by the following amounts:
       (1) ``Veterans Health Administration--Medical and 
     Prosthetic Research'', $6,823,000.
       (2) ``National Cemetery Administration'', $3,003,000.
       (3) ``Departmental Administration--General 
     Administration'', $3,600,000.
       (4) ``Departmental Administration--Board of Veterans 
     Appeals'', $1,579,000.
       (5) ``Departmental Administration--General Operating 
     Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration'', $35,470,000.
       (6) ``Departmental Administration--Information Technology 
     Systems'', $18,997,000.
       (7) ``Departmental Administration--Office of Inspector 
     General'', $1,716,000.
       Sec. 235. (a) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
     ensure that the toll-free suicide hotline under section 
     1720F(h) of title 38, United States Code--
       (1) provides to individuals who contact the hotline 
     immediate assistance from a trained professional; and
       (2) adheres to all requirements of the American Association 
     of Suicidology.
       (b)(1) None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
     used to enforce or otherwise carry out any Executive action 
     that prohibits the Secretary of Veterans Affairs from 
     appointing an individual to occupy a vacant civil service 
     position, or establishing a new civil service position, at 
     the Department of Veterans Affairs with respect to such a 
     position relating to the hotline specified in subsection (a).
       (2) In this subsection--
       (A) the term ``civil service'' has the meaning given such 
     term in section 2101(1) of title 5, United States Code; and
       (B) the term ``Executive action'' includes--
       (i) any Executive order, presidential memorandum, or other 
     action by the President; and
       (ii) any agency policy, order, or other directive.
       Sec. 236.  None of the funds in this or any other Act may 
     be used to close Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) 
     hospitals, domiciliaries, or clinics, conduct an 
     environmental assessment, or to diminish healthcare services 
     at existing Veterans Health Administration medical facilities 
     located in Veterans Integrated Service Network 8 or 23 as 
     part of a planned realignment of VA services until the 
     Secretary provides to the Committees on Appropriations of 
     both Houses of Congress a report including the following 
     elements:
       (1) a national realignment strategy that includes a 
     detailed description of realignment plans within each 
     Veterans Integrated Services Network (VISN), including an 
     updated Long Range Capital Plan to implement realignment 
     requirements;
       (2) an explanation of the process by which those plans were 
     developed and coordinated within each VISN;
       (3) a cost versus benefit analysis of each planned 
     realignment, including the cost of replacing Veterans Health 
     Administration services with contract care or other 
     outsourced services;
       (4) an analysis of how any such planned realignment of 
     services will impact access to care for veterans living in 
     rural or highly rural areas, including travel distances and 
     transportation costs to access a VA medical facility and 
     availability of local specialty and primary care;
       (5) an inventory of VA buildings with historic designation 
     and the methodology used to determine the buildings' 
     condition and utilization;
       (6) a description of how any realignment will be consistent 
     with requirements under the National Historic Preservation 
     Act; and
       (7) consideration given for reuse of historic buildings 
     within newly identified realignment requirements: Provided, 
     That, this provision shall not apply to capital projects in 
     VISN 23, or any other VISN, which have been authorized or 
     approved by Congress.
       Sec. 237.  Section 8109(b) of title 38, United States Code, 
     is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (2) in paragraph (3), by striking the period and inserting 
     ``; and''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(4) notwithstanding subsection (a) of section 1344 of 
     title 31, may use a passenger carrier (as such term is 
     defined in subsection (h)(1) of such section) to transport 
     such an employee between a parking facility and the medical 
     facility of the Department at which the employee works.''.
       Sec. 238.  None of the funds made available to the 
     Secretary of Veterans Affairs by this or any other Act may be 
     obligated or expended in contravention of the ``Veterans 
     Health Administration Clinical Preventive Services Guidance 
     Statement on the Veterans Health Administration's Screening 
     for Breast Cancer Guidance'' published on May 10, 2017, as 
     issued by the Veterans Health Administration National Center 
     for Health Promotion and Disease Prevention.
       Sec. 239. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     the amounts appropriated or otherwise made available to the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs for the ``Medical Services'' 
     account may be used to provide--
       (1) fertility counseling and treatment using assisted 
     reproductive technology to a covered veteran or the spouse of 
     a covered veteran; or
       (2) adoption reimbursement to a covered veteran.
       (b) In this section:
       (1) The term ``service-connected'' has the meaning given 
     such term in section 101 of title 38, United States Code.
       (2) The term ``covered veteran'' means a veteran, as such 
     term is defined in section 101 of title 38, United States 
     Code, who has a service-connected disability that results in 
     the inability of the veteran to procreate without the use of 
     fertility treatment.
       (3) The term ``assisted reproductive technology'' means 
     benefits relating to reproductive assistance provided to a 
     member of the Armed Forces who incurs a serious injury or 
     illness on active duty pursuant to section 1074(c)(4)(A) of 
     title 10, United States Code, as described in the memorandum 
     on the subject of ``Policy for Assisted Reproductive Services 
     for the Benefit of Seriously or Severely Ill/Injured 
     (Category II or III) Active Duty Service Members'' issued by 
     the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs on 
     April 3, 2012, and the guidance issued to implement such 
     policy, including any limitations on the amount of such 
     benefits available to such a member except that--
       (A) the time periods regarding embryo cryopreservation and 
     storage set forth in part III(G) and in part IV(H) of such 
     memorandum shall not apply; and
       (B) such term includes embryo cryopreservation and storage 
     without limitation on the duration of such cryopreservation 
     and storage.
       (4) The term ``adoption reimbursement'' means reimbursement 
     for the adoption-related expenses for an adoption that is 
     finalized after the date of the enactment of this Act under 
     the same terms as apply under the

[[Page H7026]]

     adoption reimbursement program of the Department of Defense, 
     as authorized in Department of Defense Instruction 1341.09, 
     including the reimbursement limits and requirements set forth 
     in such instruction.
       (c) Amounts made available for the purposes specified in 
     subsection (a) of this section are subject to the 
     requirements for funds contained in section 508 of division H 
     of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2017 (Public Law 115-
     31).

                               TITLE III

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                  American Battle Monuments Commission

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the 
     American Battle Monuments Commission, including the 
     acquisition of land or interest in land in foreign countries; 
     purchases and repair of uniforms for caretakers of national 
     cemeteries and monuments outside of the United States and its 
     territories and possessions; rent of office and garage space 
     in foreign countries; purchase (one-for-one replacement basis 
     only) and hire of passenger motor vehicles; not to exceed 
     $7,500 for official reception and representation expenses; 
     and insurance of official motor vehicles in foreign 
     countries, when required by law of such countries, 
     $75,100,000, to remain available until expended.

                 foreign currency fluctuations account

       For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the 
     American Battle Monuments Commission, such sums as may be 
     necessary, to remain available until expended, for purposes 
     authorized by section 2109 of title 36, United States Code.

           United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For necessary expenses for the operation of the United 
     States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims as authorized by 
     sections 7251 through 7298 of title 38, United States Code, 
     $33,600,000:  Provided, That of the amount, $800,000 shall be 
     transferred to the General Services Administration for 
     planning and design of a courthouse: Provided further, That 
     $2,580,000 shall be available for the purpose of providing 
     financial assistance as described and in accordance with the 
     process and reporting procedures set forth under this heading 
     in Public Law 102-229.

                      Department of Defense--Civil

                       Cemeterial Expenses, Army

                         salaries and expenses

       For necessary expenses for maintenance, operation, and 
     improvement of Arlington National Cemetery and Soldiers' and 
     Airmen's Home National Cemetery, including the purchase or 
     lease of passenger motor vehicles for replacement on a one-
     for-one basis only, and not to exceed $1,000 for official 
     reception and representation expenses, $78,800,000, of which 
     not to exceed $15,000,000 shall remain available until 
     September 30, 2020. In addition, such sums as may be 
     necessary for parking maintenance, repairs and replacement, 
     to be derived from the ``Lease of Department of Defense Real 
     Property for Defense Agencies'' account.

                      Armed Forces Retirement Home

                               trust fund

       For expenses necessary for the Armed Forces Retirement Home 
     to operate and maintain the Armed Forces Retirement Home--
     Washington, District of Columbia, and the Armed Forces 
     Retirement Home--Gulfport, Mississippi, to be paid from funds 
     available in the Armed Forces Retirement Home Trust Fund, 
     $64,300,000, of which $1,000,000 shall remain available until 
     expended for construction and renovation of the physical 
     plants at the Armed Forces Retirement Home--Washington, 
     District of Columbia, and the Armed Forces Retirement Home--
     Gulfport, Mississippi:  Provided, That of the amounts made 
     available under this heading from funds available in the 
     Armed Forces Retirement Home Trust Fund, $22,000,000 shall be 
     paid from the general fund of the Treasury to the Trust Fund.

                       Administrative Provisions

       Sec. 301.  Funds appropriated in this Act under the heading 
     ``Department of Defense--Civil, Cemeterial Expenses, Army'', 
     may be provided to Arlington County, Virginia, for the 
     relocation of the federally owned water main at Arlington 
     National Cemetery, making additional land available for 
     ground burials.
       Sec. 302.  Amounts deposited into the special account 
     established under 10 U.S.C. 4727 are appropriated and shall 
     be available until expended to support activities at the Army 
     National Military Cemeteries.

                                TITLE IV

                    OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS

                         DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                      Military Construction, Army

       For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, 
     Army'', $147,158,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2022, for projects outside of the United States:  Provided, 
     That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas 
     Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
     section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985.

              Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps

       For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Navy 
     and Marine Corps'', $31,890,000, to remain available until 
     September 30, 2022, for projects outside of the United 
     States:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
     Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
     Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                    Military Construction, Air Force

       For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Air 
     Force'' $434,652,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2022, for projects outside of the United States:  Provided, 
     That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas 
     Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
     section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                  Military Construction, Defense-Wide

       For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, 
     Defense-Wide'', $24,300,000, to remain available until 
     September 30, 2022, for projects outside of the United 
     States:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
     Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
     Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                        Administrative Provision

       Sec. 401.  Each amount designated in this Act by the 
     Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
     Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 
     shall be available only if the President subsequently so 
     designates all such amounts and transmits such designations 
     to the Congress.

                                TITLE V

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

       Sec. 501.  No part of any appropriation contained in this 
     Act shall remain available for obligation beyond the current 
     fiscal year unless expressly so provided herein.
       Sec. 502.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used for any program, project, or activity, when it is 
     made known to the Federal entity or official to which the 
     funds are made available that the program, project, or 
     activity is not in compliance with any Federal law relating 
     to risk assessment, the protection of private property 
     rights, or unfunded mandates.
       Sec. 503.  All departments and agencies funded under this 
     Act are encouraged, within the limits of the existing 
     statutory authorities and funding, to expand their use of 
     ``E-Commerce'' technologies and procedures in the conduct of 
     their business practices and public service activities.
       Sec. 504.  Unless stated otherwise, all reports and 
     notifications required by this Act shall be submitted to the 
     Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, 
     and Related Agencies of the Committee on Appropriations of 
     the House of Representatives and the Subcommittee on Military 
     Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies of 
     the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.
       Sec. 505.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality 
     of the United States Government except pursuant to a transfer 
     made by, or transfer authority provided in, this or any other 
     appropriations Act.
       Sec. 506.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used for a project or program named for an individual 
     serving as a Member, Delegate, or Resident Commissioner of 
     the United States House of Representatives.
       Sec. 507. (a) Any agency receiving funds made available in 
     this Act, shall, subject to subsections (b) and (c), post on 
     the public Web site of that agency any report required to be 
     submitted by the Congress in this or any other Act, upon the 
     determination by the head of the agency that it shall serve 
     the national interest.
       (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to a report if--
       (1) the public posting of the report compromises national 
     security; or
       (2) the report contains confidential or proprietary 
     information.
       (c) The head of the agency posting such report shall do so 
     only after such report has been made available to the 
     requesting Committee or Committees of Congress for no less 
     than 45 days.
       Sec. 508. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act 
     may be used to maintain or establish a computer network 
     unless such network blocks the viewing, downloading, and 
     exchanging of pornography.
       (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
     necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law 
     enforcement agency or any other entity carrying out criminal 
     investigations, prosecution, or adjudication activities.
       Sec. 509.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used by an agency of the executive branch to pay for 
     first-class travel by an employee of the agency in 
     contravention of sections 301-10.122 through 301-10.124 of 
     title 41, Code of Federal Regulations.
       Sec. 510.  None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used to execute a contract for goods or services, 
     including construction services, where the contractor has not 
     complied with Executive Order No. 12989.
       Sec. 511.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used by the Department

[[Page H7027]]

     of Defense or the Department of Veterans Affairs to lease or 
     purchase new light duty vehicles for any executive fleet, or 
     for an agency's fleet inventory, except in accordance with 
     Presidential Memorandum--Federal Fleet Performance, dated May 
     24, 2011.
       Sec. 512. (a) In General.--None of the funds appropriated 
     or otherwise made available to the Department of Defense in 
     this Act may be used to construct, renovate, or expand any 
     facility in the United States, its territories, or 
     possessions to house any individual detained at United States 
     Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, for the purposes of 
     detention or imprisonment in the custody or under the control 
     of the Department of Defense.
       (b) The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply to 
     any modification of facilities at United States Naval 
     Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
       (c) An individual described in this subsection is any 
     individual who, as of June 24, 2009, is located at United 
     States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and who--
       (1) is not a citizen of the United States or a member of 
     the Armed Forces of the United States; and
       (2) is--
       (A) in the custody or under the effective control of the 
     Department of Defense; or
       (B) otherwise under detention at United States Naval 
     Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

                           references to act

       Sec. 513.  Except as expressly provided otherwise, any 
     reference to ``this Act'' contained in this division shall be 
     treated as referring only to the provisions of this division.

                          reference to report

       Sec. 514.  Any reference to a ``report accompanying this 
     Act'' contained in this division shall be treated as a 
     reference to House Report 115-188. The effect of such Report 
     shall be limited to this division and shall apply for 
     purposes of determining the allocation of funds provided by, 
     and the implementation of, this division.

                       spending reduction account

       Sec. 515.  $0.
       Sec. 516.  The amounts otherwise provided by this Act are 
     revised by reducing the amount made available for 
     ``Department of Veterans Affairs--Departmental 
     Administration--Information Technology Services'' (and the 
     amount specified under such heading for operations and 
     maintenance), and by increasing the amount made available in 
     fiscal year 2018 for ``Veterans Health Administration--
     Medical Services'', by $2,500,000 and $2,000,000, 
     respectively.
       Sec. 517.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs in contravention 
     of subchapter III of chapter 20 of title 38, United States 
     Code.
       Sec. 518.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to charge a veteran a fee for a veterans 
     identification card pursuant to section 5706(c) of title 38, 
     United States Code, if the veteran uses form DD-214 to apply 
     for the identification card and indicates on the form that 
     the veteran is ``homeless''.
       Sec. 519.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to propose, plan for, or execute a new or additional 
     Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) round.
       Sec. 520. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available by this Act may be used by the Secretary of 
     Veterans Affairs to purchase, breed, transport, house, feed, 
     maintain, dispose of, or experiment on dogs as part of the 
     conduct of any study assigned to pain category D or E, as 
     defined by the Department of Agriculture.
       (b) This section shall not apply to training programs or 
     studies of service dogs described in section 1714 of title 38 
     United States Code or section 17.148 of title 38 of the Code 
     of Federal Regulations.
       This division may be cited as the ``Military Construction, 
     Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
     2018''.

     DIVISION L--ENERGY AND WATER DEVELOPMENT AND RELATED AGENCIES 
                        APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2018

        The following sums are appropriated, out of any money in 
     the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for energy and water 
     development and related agencies for the fiscal year ending 
     September 30, 2018, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                       CORPS OF ENGINEERS--CIVIL

                         DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

                       Corps of Engineers--Civil

       The following appropriations shall be expended under the 
     direction of the Secretary of the Army and the supervision of 
     the Chief of Engineers for authorized civil functions of the 
     Department of the Army pertaining to river and harbor, flood 
     and storm damage reduction, shore protection, aquatic 
     ecosystem restoration, and related efforts.

                             investigations

       For expenses necessary where authorized by law for the 
     collection and study of basic information pertaining to river 
     and harbor, flood and storm damage reduction, shore 
     protection, aquatic ecosystem restoration, and related needs; 
     for surveys and detailed studies, and plans and 
     specifications of proposed river and harbor, flood and storm 
     damage reduction, shore protection, and aquatic ecosystem 
     restoration projects, and related efforts prior to 
     construction; for restudy of authorized projects; and for 
     miscellaneous investigations, and, when authorized by law, 
     surveys and detailed studies, and plans and specifications of 
     projects prior to construction, $105,000,000 (increased by 
     $1,000,000), to remain available until expended: Provided, 
     That the Secretary shall initiate six new study starts during 
     fiscal year 2018: Provided further, That the new study starts 
     shall consist of five studies where the majority of the 
     benefits are derived from navigation transportation savings 
     or from flood and storm damage reduction and one study where 
     the majority of benefits are derived from environmental 
     restoration: Provided further, That the Secretary shall not 
     deviate from the new starts proposed in the work plan, once 
     the plan has been submitted to the Committees on 
     Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.

                              construction

       For expenses necessary for the construction of river and 
     harbor, flood and storm damage reduction, shore protection, 
     aquatic ecosystem restoration, and related projects 
     authorized by law; for conducting detailed studies, and plans 
     and specifications, of such projects (including those 
     involving participation by States, local governments, or 
     private groups) authorized or made eligible for selection by 
     law (but such detailed studies, and plans and specifications, 
     shall not constitute a commitment of the Government to 
     construction); $1,697,000,000 (reduced by $10,000,000) 
     (increased by $10,000,000) (reduced by $10,000,000) 
     (increased by $10,000,000) (reduced by $45,000,000) 
     (increased by $45,000,000) (increased by $500,000), to remain 
     available until expended; of which such sums as are necessary 
     to cover the Federal share of construction costs for 
     facilities under the Dredged Material Disposal Facilities 
     program shall be derived from the Harbor Maintenance Trust 
     Fund as authorized by Public Law 104-303; and of which such 
     sums as are necessary to cover one-half of the costs of 
     construction, replacement, rehabilitation, and expansion of 
     inland waterways projects shall be derived from the Inland 
     Waterways Trust Fund, except as otherwise specifically 
     provided for in law: Provided, That the Secretary may 
     initiate up to, but not more than, two new construction 
     starts during fiscal year 2018: Provided further, That the 
     new construction starts shall consist of two projects where 
     the majority of the benefits are derived from navigation 
     transportation savings, flood and storm damage reduction, or 
     environmental restoration: Provided further, That for new 
     construction projects, project cost sharing agreements shall 
     be executed as soon as practicable but no later than August 
     31, 2018: Provided further, That no allocation for a new 
     start shall be considered final and no work allowance shall 
     be made until the Secretary provides to the Committees on 
     Appropriations of both Houses of Congress an out-year funding 
     scenario demonstrating the affordability of the selected new 
     starts and the impacts on other projects: Provided further, 
     That the Secretary may not deviate from the new starts 
     proposed in the work plan, once the plan has been submitted 
     to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
     Congress.

                   mississippi river and tributaries

       For expenses necessary for flood damage reduction projects 
     and related efforts in the Mississippi River alluvial valley 
     below Cape Girardeau, Missouri, as authorized by law, 
     $301,000,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
     such sums as are necessary to cover the Federal share of 
     eligible operation and maintenance costs for inland harbors 
     shall be derived from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund.

                       operation and maintenance

       For expenses necessary for the operation, maintenance, and 
     care of existing river and harbor, flood and storm damage 
     reduction, aquatic ecosystem restoration, and related 
     projects authorized by law; providing security for 
     infrastructure owned or operated by the Corps, including 
     administrative buildings and laboratories; maintaining harbor 
     channels provided by a State, municipality, or other public 
     agency that serve essential navigation needs of general 
     commerce, where authorized by law; surveying and charting 
     northern and northwestern lakes and connecting waters; 
     clearing and straightening channels; and removing 
     obstructions to navigation, $3,519,000,000 (increased by 
     $325,000) (reduced by $500,000) (increased by $500,000), to 
     remain available until expended, of which such sums as are 
     necessary to cover the Federal share of eligible operation 
     and maintenance costs for coastal harbors and channels, and 
     for inland harbors shall be derived from the Harbor 
     Maintenance Trust Fund; of which such sums as become 
     available from the special account for the Corps of Engineers 
     established by the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 
     1965 shall be derived from that account for resource 
     protection, research, interpretation, and maintenance 
     activities related to resource protection in the areas at 
     which outdoor recreation is available; and of which such sums 
     as become available from fees collected under section 217 of 
     Public Law 104-303 shall be used to cover the cost of 
     operation and maintenance of the dredged material disposal 
     facilities for which such fees have been collected: Provided, 
     That 1 percent of the total amount of funds provided for each 
     of the programs, projects, or activities funded under this 
     heading shall not be allocated to a field operating activity 
     prior to the beginning of the fourth quarter of the fiscal 
     year and shall be available for

[[Page H7028]]

     use by the Chief of Engineers to fund such emergency 
     activities as the Chief of Engineers determines to be 
     necessary and appropriate, and that the Chief of Engineers 
     shall allocate during the fourth quarter any remaining funds 
     which have not been used for emergency activities 
     proportionally in accordance with the amounts provided for 
     the programs, projects, or activities.

                           regulatory program

       For expenses necessary for administration of laws 
     pertaining to regulation of navigable waters and wetlands, 
     $200,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019.

            formerly utilized sites remedial action program

       For expenses necessary to clean up contamination from sites 
     in the United States resulting from work performed as part of 
     the Nation's early atomic energy program, $118,000,000, to 
     remain available until expended.

                 flood control and coastal emergencies

       For expenses necessary to prepare for flood, hurricane, and 
     other natural disasters and support emergency operations, 
     repairs, and other activities in response to such disasters 
     as authorized by law, $32,000,000, to remain available until 
     expended.

                                expenses

       For expenses necessary for the supervision and general 
     administration of the civil works program in the headquarters 
     of the Corps of Engineers and the offices of the Division 
     Engineers; and for costs of management and operation of the 
     Humphreys Engineer Center Support Activity, the Institute for 
     Water Resources, the United States Army Engineer Research and 
     Development Center, and the United States Army Corps of 
     Engineers Finance Center allocable to the civil works 
     program, $181,000,000 (reduced by $1,000,000) (reduced by 
     $325,000) (reduced by $500,000), to remain available until 
     September 30, 2019, of which not to exceed $5,000 may be used 
     for official reception and representation purposes and only 
     during the current fiscal year: Provided, That no part of any 
     other appropriation provided in this title shall be available 
     to fund the civil works activities of the Office of the Chief 
     of Engineers or the civil works executive direction and 
     management activities of the division offices: Provided 
     further, That any Flood Control and Coastal Emergencies 
     appropriation may be used to fund the supervision and general 
     administration of emergency operations, repairs, and other 
     activities in response to any flood, hurricane, or other 
     natural disaster.

     office of the assistant secretary of the army for civil works

       For the Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Army for 
     Civil Works as authorized by 10 U.S.C. 3016(b)(3), 
     $4,764,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019: 
     Provided, That not more than 75 percent of such amount may be 
     obligated or expended until the Assistant Secretary submits 
     to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
     Congress a work plan that allocates at least 95 percent of 
     the additional funding provided under each heading in this 
     title (as designated under such heading in the report of the 
     Committee on Appropriations accompanying this Act) to 
     specific programs, projects, or activities.

             GENERAL PROVISIONS--CORPS OF ENGINEERS--CIVIL

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 101. (a) None of the funds provided in this title 
     shall be available for obligation or expenditure through a 
     reprogramming of funds that--
       (1) creates or initiates a new program, project, or 
     activity;
       (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity;
       (3) increases funds or personnel for any program, project, 
     or activity for which funds have been denied or restricted by 
     this Act;
       (4) reduces funds that are directed to be used for a 
     specific program, project, or activity by this Act;
       (5) increases funds for any program, project, or activity 
     by more than $2,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less; or
       (6) reduces funds for any program, project, or activity by 
     more than $2,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less.
       (b) Subsection (a)(1) shall not apply to any project or 
     activity authorized under section 205 of the Flood Control 
     Act of 1948, section 14 of the Flood Control Act of 1946, 
     section 208 of the Flood Control Act of 1954, section 107 of 
     the River and Harbor Act of 1960, section 103 of the River 
     and Harbor Act of 1962, section 111 of the River and Harbor 
     Act of 1968, section 1135 of the Water Resources Development 
     Act of 1986, section 206 of the Water Resources Development 
     Act of 1996, or section 204 of the Water Resources 
     Development Act of 1992.
       (c) The Corps of Engineers shall submit reports on a 
     quarterly basis to the Committees on Appropriations of both 
     Houses of Congress detailing all the funds reprogrammed 
     between programs, projects, activities, or categories of 
     funding. The first quarterly report shall be submitted not 
     later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
       Sec. 102.  None of the funds made available in this title 
     may be used to award or modify any contract that commits 
     funds beyond the amounts appropriated for that program, 
     project, or activity that remain unobligated, except that 
     such amounts may include any funds that have been made 
     available through reprogramming pursuant to section 101.
       Sec. 103.  The Secretary of the Army may transfer to the 
     Fish and Wildlife Service, and the Fish and Wildlife Service 
     may accept and expend, up to $5,400,000 of funds provided in 
     this title under the heading ``Operation and Maintenance'' to 
     mitigate for fisheries lost due to Corps of Engineers 
     projects.
       Sec. 104.  None of the funds in this Act shall be used for 
     an open lake placement alternative for dredged material, 
     after evaluating the least costly, environmentally acceptable 
     manner for the disposal or management of dredged material 
     originating from Lake Erie or tributaries thereto, unless it 
     is approved under a State water quality certification 
     pursuant to section 401 of the Federal Water Pollution 
     Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1341); Provided further, That until an 
     open lake placement alternative for dredged material is 
     approved under a State water quality certification, the Corps 
     of Engineers shall continue upland placement of such dredged 
     material consistent with the requirements of section 101 of 
     the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 (33 U.S.C. 2211).
       Sec. 105.  None of the funds made available in this title 
     may be used for any acquisition that is not consistent with 
     48 CFR 225.7007.
       Sec. 106.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to carry out any water supply reallocation study 
     under the Wolf Creek Dam, Lake Cumberland, Kentucky, project 
     authorized under the Act of July 24, 1946 (60 Stat. 636, ch. 
     595).
       Sec. 107.  Notwithstanding section 404(f)(2) of the Federal 
     Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1344(f)(2)), none of 
     the funds made available by this Act may be used to require a 
     permit for the discharge of dredged or fill material under 
     the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et 
     seq.) for the activities identified in subparagraphs (A) and 
     (C) of section 404(f)(1) of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1344(f)(1)(A), 
     (C)).
       Sec. 108. (a) Authorization.--The Administrator of the 
     Environmental Protection Agency and the Secretary of the Army 
     may withdraw the Waters of the United States rule without 
     regard to any provision of statute or regulation that 
     establishes a requirement for such withdrawal.
       (b) Effect of Withdrawal.--Except as otherwise provided by 
     any Act or rule that takes effect after the date of enactment 
     of this Act, if the Administrator of the Environmental 
     Protection Agency and the Secretary of the Army withdraw the 
     Waters of the United States rule under subsection (a), the 
     Administrator and Secretary shall implement the provisions of 
     law under which such rule was issued in accordance with the 
     regulations and guidance in effect under such provisions 
     immediately before the effective date of such rule.
       (c) Definitions.--In this section the term ``Waters of the 
     United States rule'' means the final rule issued by the 
     Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and the 
     Secretary of the Army entitled ``Clean Water Rule: Definition 
     of `Waters of the United States' '' on June 29, 2015 (80 Fed. 
     Reg. 37053).
       Sec. 109.  As of the date of enactment of this Act and each 
     fiscal year thereafter, the Secretary of the Army shall not 
     promulgate or enforce any regulation that prohibits an 
     individual from possessing a firearm, including an assembled 
     or functional firearm, at a water resources development 
     project covered under section 327.0 of title 36, Code of 
     Federal Regulations (as in effect on the date of enactment of 
     this Act), if--
       (1) the individual is not otherwise prohibited by law from 
     possessing the firearm; and
       (2) the possession of the firearm is in compliance with the 
     law of the State in which the water resources development 
     project is located.

                                TITLE II

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                          Central Utah Project

                central utah project completion account

       For carrying out activities authorized by the Central Utah 
     Project Completion Act, $8,983,000, to remain available until 
     expended, of which $898,000 shall be deposited into the Utah 
     Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Account for use by 
     the Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission: 
     Provided, That of the amount provided under this heading, 
     $1,450,000 shall be available until September 30, 2019, for 
     expenses necessary in carrying out related responsibilities 
     of the Secretary of the Interior: Provided further, That for 
     fiscal year 2018, of the amount made available to the 
     Commission under this Act or any other Act, the Commission 
     may use an amount not to exceed $1,500,000 for administrative 
     expenses.

                         Bureau of Reclamation

       The following appropriations shall be expended to execute 
     authorized functions of the Bureau of Reclamation:

                      water and related resources

                     (including transfers of funds)

       For management, development, and restoration of water and 
     related natural resources and for related activities, 
     including the operation, maintenance, and rehabilitation of 
     reclamation and other facilities, participation in fulfilling 
     related Federal responsibilities to Native Americans, and 
     related grants to, and cooperative and other agreements with, 
     State and local governments, federally recognized Indian 
     tribes, and others, $1,091,790,000, to remain available until 
     expended, of which $67,693,000 shall be available for 
     transfer to the Upper Colorado River Basin Fund and 
     $5,551,000 shall be

[[Page H7029]]

     available for transfer to the Lower Colorado River Basin 
     Development Fund; of which such amounts as may be necessary 
     may be advanced to the Colorado River Dam Fund: Provided, 
     That such transfers may be increased or decreased within the 
     overall appropriation under this heading: Provided further, 
     That of the total appropriated, the amount for program 
     activities that can be financed by the Reclamation Fund or 
     the Bureau of Reclamation special fee account established by 
     16 U.S.C. 6806 shall be derived from that Fund or account: 
     Provided further, That funds contributed under 43 U.S.C. 395 
     are available until expended for the purposes for which the 
     funds were contributed: Provided further, That funds advanced 
     under 43 U.S.C. 397a shall be credited to this account and 
     are available until expended for the same purposes as the 
     sums appropriated under this heading: Provided further, That 
     of the amounts provided herein, funds may be used for high-
     priority projects which shall be carried out by the Youth 
     Conservation Corps, as authorized by 16 U.S.C. 1706.

                central valley project restoration fund

       For carrying out the programs, projects, plans, habitat 
     restoration, improvement, and acquisition provisions of the 
     Central Valley Project Improvement Act, $41,376,000, to be 
     derived from such sums as may be collected in the Central 
     Valley Project Restoration Fund pursuant to sections 3407(d), 
     3404(c)(3), and 3405(f) of Public Law 102-575, to remain 
     available until expended: Provided, That the Bureau of 
     Reclamation is directed to assess and collect the full amount 
     of the additional mitigation and restoration payments 
     authorized by section 3407(d) of Public Law 102-575: Provided 
     further, That none of the funds made available under this 
     heading may be used for the acquisition or leasing of water 
     for in-stream purposes if the water is already committed to 
     in-stream purposes by a court adopted decree or order.

                    california bay-delta restoration

                     (including transfers of funds)

       For carrying out activities authorized by the Water Supply, 
     Reliability, and Environmental Improvement Act, consistent 
     with plans to be approved by the Secretary of the Interior, 
     $37,000,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
     such amounts as may be necessary to carry out such activities 
     may be transferred to appropriate accounts of other 
     participating Federal agencies to carry out authorized 
     purposes: Provided, That funds appropriated herein may be 
     used for the Federal share of the costs of CALFED Program 
     management: Provided further, That CALFED implementation 
     shall be carried out in a balanced manner with clear 
     performance measures demonstrating concurrent progress in 
     achieving the goals and objectives of the Program.

                       policy and administration

       For expenses necessary for policy, administration, and 
     related functions in the Office of the Commissioner, the 
     Denver office, and offices in the five regions of the Bureau 
     of Reclamation, to remain available until September 30, 2019, 
     $59,000,000, to be derived from the Reclamation Fund and be 
     nonreimbursable as provided in 43 U.S.C. 377: Provided, That 
     no part of any other appropriation in this Act shall be 
     available for activities or functions budgeted as policy and 
     administration expenses.

                        administrative provision

       Appropriations for the Bureau of Reclamation shall be 
     available for purchase of not to exceed five passenger motor 
     vehicles, which are for replacement only.

             GENERAL PROVISIONS--DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

       Sec. 201. (a) None of the funds provided in this title 
     shall be available for obligation or expenditure through a 
     reprogramming of funds that--
       (1) creates or initiates a new program, project, or 
     activity;
       (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity;
       (3) increases funds for any program, project, or activity 
     for which funds have been denied or restricted by this Act;
       (4) restarts or resumes any program, project or activity 
     for which funds are not provided in this Act, unless prior 
     approval is received from the Committees on Appropriations of 
     both Houses of Congress;
       (5) transfers funds in excess of the following limits--
       (A) 15 percent for any program, project or activity for 
     which $2,000,000 or more is available at the beginning of the 
     fiscal year; or
       (B) $400,000 for any program, project or activity for which 
     less than $2,000,000 is available at the beginning of the 
     fiscal year;
       (6) transfers more than $500,000 from either the Facilities 
     Operation, Maintenance, and Rehabilitation category or the 
     Resources Management and Development category to any program, 
     project, or activity in the other category; or
       (7) transfers, where necessary to discharge legal 
     obligations of the Bureau of Reclamation, more than 
     $5,000,000 to provide adequate funds for settled contractor 
     claims, increased contractor earnings due to accelerated 
     rates of operations, and real estate deficiency judgments.
       (b) Subsection (a)(5) shall not apply to any transfer of 
     funds within the Facilities Operation, Maintenance, and 
     Rehabilitation category.
       (c) For purposes of this section, the term ``transfer'' 
     means any movement of funds into or out of a program, 
     project, or activity.
       (d) The Bureau of Reclamation shall submit reports on a 
     quarterly basis to the Committees on Appropriations of both 
     Houses of Congress detailing all the funds reprogrammed 
     between programs, projects, activities, or categories of 
     funding. The first quarterly report shall be submitted not 
     later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
       Sec. 202. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available by this Act may be used to determine the final 
     point of discharge for the interceptor drain for the San Luis 
     Unit until development by the Secretary of the Interior and 
     the State of California of a plan, which shall conform to the 
     water quality standards of the State of California as 
     approved by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
     Agency, to minimize any detrimental effect of the San Luis 
     drainage waters.
       (b) The costs of the Kesterson Reservoir Cleanup Program 
     and the costs of the San Joaquin Valley Drainage Program 
     shall be classified by the Secretary of the Interior as 
     reimbursable or nonreimbursable and collected until fully 
     repaid pursuant to the ``Cleanup Program--Alternative 
     Repayment Plan'' and the ``SJVDP--Alternative Repayment 
     Plan'' described in the report entitled ``Repayment Report, 
     Kesterson Reservoir Cleanup Program and San Joaquin Valley 
     Drainage Program, February 1995'', prepared by the Department 
     of the Interior, Bureau of Reclamation. Any future 
     obligations of funds by the United States relating to, or 
     providing for, drainage service or drainage studies for the 
     San Luis Unit shall be fully reimbursable by San Luis Unit 
     beneficiaries of such service or studies pursuant to Federal 
     reclamation law.
       Sec. 203.  None of the funds in this Act shall be available 
     to implement the Stipulation of Settlement (Natural Resources 
     Defense Council, et al. v. Kirk Rodgers, et al., Eastern 
     District of California, No. Civ. 9 S-88-1658 LKK/GGH) or 
     subtitle A of title X of Public Law 111-11.

                               TITLE III

                          DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

                            ENERGY PROGRAMS

                 Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy

       For Department of Energy expenses including the purchase, 
     construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment, 
     and other expenses necessary for energy efficiency and 
     renewable energy activities in carrying out the purposes of 
     the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et 
     seq.), including the acquisition or condemnation of any real 
     property or any facility or for plant or facility 
     acquisition, construction, or expansion, $1,103,908,000 
     (reduced by $48,000,000) (increased by $48,000,000) (reduced 
     by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000) (reduced by 
     $33,400,000) (increased by $15,000,000), to remain available 
     until expended: Provided, That of such amount, $125,849,000 
     shall be available until September 30, 2019, for program 
     direction.

              Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability

       For Department of Energy expenses including the purchase, 
     construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment, 
     and other expenses necessary for electricity delivery and 
     energy reliability activities in carrying out the purposes of 
     the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et 
     seq.), including the acquisition or condemnation of any real 
     property or any facility or for plant or facility 
     acquisition, construction, or expansion, $218,500,000, to 
     remain available until expended: Provided, That of such 
     amount, $27,500,000 shall be available until September 30, 
     2019, for program direction.

                             Nuclear Energy

       For Department of Energy expenses including the purchase, 
     construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment, 
     and other expenses necessary for nuclear energy activities in 
     carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy 
     Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the 
     acquisition or condemnation of any real property or any 
     facility or for plant or facility acquisition, construction, 
     or expansion, $969,000,000, to remain available until 
     expended: Provided, That of such amount, $70,000,000 shall be 
     available until September 30, 2019, for program direction.

                 Fossil Energy Research and Development

       For Department of Energy expenses necessary in carrying out 
     fossil energy research and development activities, under the 
     authority of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 
     U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition of interest, 
     including defeasible and equitable interests in any real 
     property or any facility or for plant or facility acquisition 
     or expansion, and for conducting inquiries, technological 
     investigations and research concerning the extraction, 
     processing, use, and disposal of mineral substances without 
     objectionable social and environmental costs (30 U.S.C. 3, 
     1602, and 1603), $634,600,000 (increased by $33,400,000), to 
     remain available until expended: Provided, That of such 
     amount $60,000,000 shall be available until September 30, 
     2019, for program direction.

                 Naval Petroleum and Oil Shale Reserves

       For Department of Energy expenses necessary to carry out 
     naval petroleum and oil shale reserve activities, $4,900,000, 
     to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
     notwithstanding any other provision of law, unobligated funds 
     remaining from prior years shall be available for all naval 
     petroleum and oil shale reserve activities.

[[Page H7030]]

  


                      Strategic Petroleum Reserve

       For Department of Energy expenses necessary for Strategic 
     Petroleum Reserve facility development and operations and 
     program management activities pursuant to the Energy Policy 
     and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6201 et seq.), $252,000,000, 
     to remain available until expended: Provided, That as 
     authorized by section 404 of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 
     2015 (Public Law 114-74; 42 U.S.C. 6239 note), the Secretary 
     of Energy shall draw down and sell not to exceed $350,000,000 
     of crude oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve in fiscal 
     year 2018: Provided further, That the proceeds from such 
     drawdown and sale shall be deposited into the ``Energy 
     Security and Infrastructure Modernization Fund'' during 
     fiscal year 2018 and shall be made available and shall remain 
     available until expended for necessary expenses in carrying 
     out the Life Extension II project for the Strategic Petroleum 
     Reserve.

                   Northeast Home Heating Oil Reserve

       For Department of Energy expenses necessary for Northeast 
     Home Heating Oil Reserve storage, operation, and management 
     activities pursuant to the Energy Policy and Conservation Act 
     (42 U.S.C. 6201 et seq.), $6,500,000, to remain available 
     until expended.

                   Energy Information Administration

       For Department of Energy expenses necessary in carrying out 
     the activities of the Energy Information Administration, 
     $118,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                   Non-Defense Environmental Cleanup

       For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
     construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment 
     and other expenses necessary for non-defense environmental 
     cleanup activities in carrying out the purposes of the 
     Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et 
     seq.), including the acquisition or condemnation of any real 
     property or any facility or for plant or facility 
     acquisition, construction, or expansion, $222,400,000, to 
     remain available until expended.

      Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund

       For Department of Energy expenses necessary in carrying out 
     uranium enrichment facility decontamination and 
     decommissioning, remedial actions, and other activities of 
     title II of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 and title X, 
     subtitle A, of the Energy Policy Act of 1992, $768,000,000, 
     to be derived from the Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and 
     Decommissioning Fund, to remain available until expended, of 
     which $32,959,000 shall be available in accordance with title 
     X, subtitle A, of the Energy Policy Act of 1992.

                                Science

       For Department of Energy expenses including the purchase, 
     construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment, 
     and other expenses necessary for science activities in 
     carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy 
     Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the 
     acquisition or condemnation of any real property or facility 
     or for plant or facility acquisition, construction, or 
     expansion, and purchase of not more than 16 passenger motor 
     vehicles for replacement only, including one ambulance and 
     one bus, $5,392,000,000 (increased by $1,200,000), to remain 
     available until expended: Provided, That of such amount, 
     $177,000,000 shall be available until September 30, 2019, for 
     program direction.

                         Nuclear Waste Disposal

       For Department of Energy expenses necessary for nuclear 
     waste disposal activities to carry out the purposes of the 
     Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, Public Law 97-425, as 
     amended (hereinafter referred to as the ``NWPA''), including 
     the acquisition of any real property or facility 
     construction, or expansion, $90,000,000, to remain available 
     until expended, and to be derived from the Nuclear Waste 
     Fund: Provided, That of the funds made available in this Act 
     for nuclear waste disposal and defense nuclear waste disposal 
     activities, 1.62 percent shall be provided to the Office of 
     the Attorney General of the State of Nevada solely for 
     expenditures, other than salaries and expenses of State 
     employees, to conduct scientific oversight responsibilities 
     and participate in licensing activities pursuant to the NWPA: 
     Provided further, That of the funds made available in this 
     Act for nuclear waste disposal and defense nuclear waste 
     disposal activities, 2.91 percent shall be provided to 
     affected units of local government, as defined in the NWPA, 
     to conduct appropriate activities and participate in 
     licensing activities under Section 116(c) of the NWPA: 
     Provided further, That of the amounts provided to affected 
     units of local government, 7.5 percent of the funds provided 
     for the affected units of local government shall be made 
     available to affected units of local government in California 
     with the balance made available to affected units of local 
     government in Nevada for distribution as determined by the 
     Nevada affected units of local government: Provided further, 
     That of the funds made available in this Act for nuclear 
     waste disposal and defense nuclear waste disposal activities, 
     0.16 percent shall be provided to the affected Federally-
     recognized Indian tribes, as defined in the NWPA, solely for 
     expenditures, other than salaries and expenses of tribal 
     employees, to conduct appropriate activities and participate 
     in licensing activities under section 118(b) of the NWPA: 
     Provided further, That of the funds made available in this 
     Act for nuclear waste disposal and defense nuclear waste 
     disposal activities, 3.0 percent shall be provided to Nye 
     County, Nevada, 0.05 percent shall be provided to Clark 
     County, Nevada, and 0.46 percent shall be provided to the 
     State of Nevada as payment equal to taxes under section 
     116(c)(3) of the NWPA: Provided further, That within 90 days 
     of the completion of each Federal fiscal year, the Office of 
     the Attorney General of the State of Nevada, each affected 
     Federally-recognized Indian tribe, and each of the affected 
     units of local government shall provide certification to the 
     Department of Energy that all funds expended from such 
     payments have been expended for activities authorized by the 
     NWPA and this Act: Provided further, That failure to provide 
     such certification shall cause such entity to be prohibited 
     from any further funding provided for similar activities: 
     Provided further, That none of the funds herein appropriated 
     may be: (1) used for litigation expenses; or (2) used for 
     interim storage activities; or (3) used to support multi-
     State efforts or other coalition building activities 
     inconsistent with the restrictions contained in this Act: 
     Provided further, That all proceeds and recoveries realized 
     by the Secretary in carrying out activities authorized by the 
     NWPA, including but not limited to any proceeds from the sale 
     of assets, shall be credited to this account, to remain 
     available until expended, for carrying out the purposes of 
     this account.

         Title 17 Innovative Technology Loan Guarantee Program

                    (including rescissions of funds)

       Such sums as are derived from amounts received from 
     borrowers pursuant to section 1702(b) of the Energy Policy 
     Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16512(b)) under this heading in prior 
     Acts, shall be collected in accordance with section 502(7) of 
     the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided, That for 
     necessary administrative expenses to carry out this Loan 
     Guarantee program, $2,000,000 is appropriated, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2019: Provided further, That 
     $2,000,000 of the fees collected pursuant to section 1702(h) 
     of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 shall be credited as 
     offsetting collections to this account to cover 
     administrative expenses and shall remain available until 
     expended, so as to result in a final fiscal year 2018 
     appropriation from the general fund estimated at not more 
     than $0: Provided further, That fees collected under section 
     1702(h) in excess of the amount appropriated for 
     administrative expenses shall not be available until 
     appropriated: Provided further, That the Department of Energy 
     shall not subordinate any loan obligation to other financing 
     in violation of section 1702 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 
     or subordinate any Guaranteed Obligation to any loan or other 
     debt obligations in violation of section 609.10 of title 10, 
     Code of Federal Regulations: Provided further, That of the 
     subsidy amounts provided by section 1425 of the Department of 
     Defense and Full-Year Continuing Appropriations Act, 2011 
     (Public Law 112-10; 125 Stat. 126), for the cost of loan 
     guarantees for renewable energy or efficient end-use energy 
     technologies under section 1703 of the Energy Policy Act of 
     2005 (42 U.S.C. 16513), $160,660,000 is hereby rescinded: 
     Provided further, That the authority provided in prior year 
     appropriations Acts for commitments to guarantee loans under 
     title XVII of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, excluding 
     amounts for commitments made by October 1, 2017, is hereby 
     rescinded.

        Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Loan Program

       For Department of Energy administrative expenses necessary 
     in carrying out the Advanced Technology Vehicles 
     Manufacturing Loan Program, $5,000,000, to remain available 
     until September 30, 2019.

                  Tribal Energy Loan Guarantee Program

       For Department of Energy administrative expenses necessary 
     in carrying out the Tribal Energy Loan Guarantee Program, 
     $500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019.

                      Departmental Administration

       For salaries and expenses of the Department of Energy 
     necessary for departmental administration in carrying out the 
     purposes of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 
     U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), $281,693,000 (reduced by $1,200,000) 
     (reduced by $15,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000) (increased 
     by $1,000,000), to remain available until September 30, 2019, 
     including the hire of passenger motor vehicles and official 
     reception and representation expenses not to exceed $30,000, 
     plus such additional amounts as necessary to cover increases 
     in the estimated amount of cost of work for others 
     notwithstanding the provisions of the Anti-Deficiency Act (31 
     U.S.C. 1511 et seq.): Provided, That such increases in cost 
     of work are offset by revenue increases of the same or 
     greater amount: Provided further, That moneys received by the 
     Department for miscellaneous revenues estimated to total 
     $96,000,000 in fiscal year 2018 may be retained and used for 
     operating expenses within this account, as authorized by 
     section 201 of Public Law 95-238, notwithstanding the 
     provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3302: Provided further, That the sum 
     herein appropriated shall be reduced as collections are 
     received during the fiscal year so as to result in a final 
     fiscal year 2018 appropriation from the general fund 
     estimated at not more than $185,693,000.

                    Office of the Inspector General

       For expenses necessary for the Office of the Inspector 
     General in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector 
     General Act of 1978,

[[Page H7031]]

     $49,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019.

                    ATOMIC ENERGY DEFENSE ACTIVITIES

                NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION

                           Weapons Activities

       For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
     construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment 
     and other incidental expenses necessary for atomic energy 
     defense weapons activities in carrying out the purposes of 
     the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et 
     seq.), including the acquisition or condemnation of any real 
     property or any facility or for plant or facility 
     acquisition, construction, or expansion, $10,239,344,000 
     (reduced by $10,000,000) (increased by $10,000,000), to 
     remain available until expended: Provided, That of such 
     amount, $105,600,000 shall be available until September 30, 
     2019, for program direction.

                    Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation

                    (including rescission of funds)

       For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
     construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment 
     and other incidental expenses necessary for defense nuclear 
     nonproliferation activities, in carrying out the purposes of 
     the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et 
     seq.), including the acquisition or condemnation of any real 
     property or any facility or for plant or facility 
     acquisition, construction, or expansion, $1,825,461,000, to 
     remain available until expended: Provided, That funds 
     provided by this Act for Project 99-D-143, Mixed Oxide Fuel 
     Fabrication Facility, and by prior Acts that remain 
     unobligated for such Project, may be made available only for 
     construction and project support activities for such Project: 
      Provided further, That of the unobligated balances from 
     prior year appropriations available under this heading, 
     $49,000,000 is hereby rescinded: Provided further, That no 
     amounts may be rescinded from amounts that were designated by 
     the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a 
     concurrent resolution on the budget or the Balanced Budget 
     and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                             Naval Reactors

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For Department of Energy expenses necessary for naval 
     reactors activities to carry out the Department of Energy 
     Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the 
     acquisition (by purchase, condemnation, construction, or 
     otherwise) of real property, plant, and capital equipment, 
     facilities, and facility expansion, $1,486,000,000, to remain 
     available until expended, of which, $82,500,000 shall be 
     transferred to ``Department of Energy--Energy Programs--
     Nuclear Energy'', for the Advanced Test Reactor: Provided, 
     That of such amount, $46,651,000 shall be available until 
     September 30, 2019, for program direction.

                     Federal Salaries and Expenses

       For expenses necessary for Federal Salaries and Expenses in 
     the National Nuclear Security Administration, $412,595,000, 
     to remain available until September 30, 2019, including 
     official reception and representation expenses not to exceed 
     $12,000.

               ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER DEFENSE ACTIVITIES

                     Defense Environmental Cleanup

       For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
     construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment 
     and other expenses necessary for atomic energy defense 
     environmental cleanup activities in carrying out the purposes 
     of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 
     et seq.), including the acquisition or condemnation of any 
     real property or any facility or for plant or facility 
     acquisition, construction, or expansion, $5,405,000,000, to 
     remain available until expended: Provided, That of such 
     amount, $300,000,000 shall be available until September 30, 
     2019, for program direction.

                        Other Defense Activities

       For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
     construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment 
     and other expenses, necessary for atomic energy defense, 
     other defense activities, and classified activities, in 
     carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy 
     Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the 
     acquisition or condemnation of any real property or any 
     facility or for plant or facility acquisition, construction, 
     or expansion, $825,000,000, to remain available until 
     expended: Provided, That of such amount, $284,400,000 shall 
     be available until September 30, 2019, for program direction.

                     Defense Nuclear Waste Disposal

       For Department of Energy expenses necessary for nuclear 
     waste disposal activities to carry out the purposes of the 
     Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, as amended, including the 
     acquisition of real property or facility construction or 
     expansion, $30,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                    POWER MARKETING ADMINISTRATIONS

                  Bonneville Power Administration Fund

       Expenditures from the Bonneville Power Administration Fund, 
     established pursuant to Public Law 93-454, are approved for 
     official reception and representation expenses in an amount 
     not to exceed $5,000: Provided, That during fiscal year 2018, 
     no new direct loan obligations may be made.

      Operation and Maintenance, Southeastern Power Administration

       For expenses necessary for operation and maintenance of 
     power transmission facilities and for marketing electric 
     power and energy, including transmission wheeling and 
     ancillary services, pursuant to section 5 of the Flood 
     Control Act of 1944 (16 U.S.C. 825s), as applied to the 
     southeastern power area, $6,379,000, including official 
     reception and representation expenses in an amount not to 
     exceed $1,500, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
     That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302 and section 5 of the 
     Flood Control Act of 1944, up to $6,379,000 collected by the 
     Southeastern Power Administration from the sale of power and 
     related services shall be credited to this account as 
     discretionary offsetting collections, to remain available 
     until expended for the sole purpose of funding the annual 
     expenses of the Southeastern Power Administration: Provided 
     further, That the sum herein appropriated for annual expenses 
     shall be reduced as collections are received during the 
     fiscal year so as to result in a final fiscal year 2018 
     appropriation estimated at not more than $0: Provided 
     further, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, up to 
     $51,000,000 collected by the Southeastern Power 
     Administration pursuant to the Flood Control Act of 1944 to 
     recover purchase power and wheeling expenses shall be 
     credited to this account as offsetting collections, to remain 
     available until expended for the sole purpose of making 
     purchase power and wheeling expenditures: Provided further, 
     That for purposes of this appropriation, annual expenses 
     means expenditures that are generally recovered in the same 
     year that they are incurred (excluding purchase power and 
     wheeling expenses).

      Operation and Maintenance, Southwestern Power Administration

       For expenses necessary for operation and maintenance of 
     power transmission facilities and for marketing electric 
     power and energy, for construction and acquisition of 
     transmission lines, substations and appurtenant facilities, 
     and for administrative expenses, including official reception 
     and representation expenses in an amount not to exceed $1,500 
     in carrying out section 5 of the Flood Control Act of 1944 
     (16 U.S.C. 825s), as applied to the Southwestern Power 
     Administration, $30,288,000, to remain available until 
     expended: Provided, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302 and 
     section 5 of the Flood Control Act of 1944 (16 U.S.C. 825s), 
     up to $18,888,000 collected by the Southwestern Power 
     Administration from the sale of power and related services 
     shall be credited to this account as discretionary offsetting 
     collections, to remain available until expended, for the sole 
     purpose of funding the annual expenses of the Southwestern 
     Power Administration: Provided further, That the sum herein 
     appropriated for annual expenses shall be reduced as 
     collections are received during the fiscal year so as to 
     result in a final fiscal year 2018 appropriation estimated at 
     not more than $11,400,000: Provided further, That 
     notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, up to $10,000,000 collected 
     by the Southwestern Power Administration pursuant to the 
     Flood Control Act of 1944 to recover purchase power and 
     wheeling expenses shall be credited to this account as 
     offsetting collections, to remain available until expended 
     for the sole purpose of making purchase power and wheeling 
     expenditures: Provided further, That for purposes of this 
     appropriation, annual expenses means expenditures that are 
     generally recovered in the same year that they are incurred 
     (excluding purchase power and wheeling expenses).

 Construction, Rehabilitation, Operation and Maintenance, Western Area 
                          Power Administration

       For carrying out the functions authorized by title III, 
     section 302(a)(1)(E) of the Act of August 4, 1977 (42 U.S.C. 
     7152), and other related activities including conservation 
     and renewable resources programs as authorized, $232,276,000, 
     including official reception and representation expenses in 
     an amount not to exceed $1,500, to remain available until 
     expended, of which $230,251,000 shall be derived from the 
     Department of the Interior Reclamation Fund: Provided, That 
     notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, section 5 of the Flood 
     Control Act of 1944 (16 U.S.C. 825s), and section 1 of the 
     Interior Department Appropriation Act, 1939 (43 U.S.C. 392a), 
     up to $138,904,000 collected by the Western Area Power 
     Administration from the sale of power and related services 
     shall be credited to this account as discretionary offsetting 
     collections, to remain available until expended, for the sole 
     purpose of funding the annual expenses of the Western Area 
     Power Administration: Provided further, That the sum herein 
     appropriated for annual expenses shall be reduced as 
     collections are received during the fiscal year so as to 
     result in a final fiscal year 2018 appropriation estimated at 
     not more than $93,372,000, of which $91,347,000 is derived 
     from the Reclamation Fund: Provided further, That 
     notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, up to $179,000,000 collected 
     by the Western Area Power Administration pursuant to the 
     Flood Control Act of 1944 and the Reclamation Project Act of 
     1939 to recover purchase power and wheeling expenses shall be 
     credited to this account as offsetting collections, to remain 
     available until expended for the sole purpose of making 
     purchase power and wheeling expenditures: Provided further, 
     That for purposes of this appropriation, annual expenses 
     means expenditures that are generally recovered in the same 
     year that they are incurred (excluding purchase power and 
     wheeling expenses).

[[Page H7032]]

  


           Falcon and Amistad Operating and Maintenance Fund

       For operation, maintenance, and emergency costs for the 
     hydroelectric facilities at the Falcon and Amistad Dams, 
     $4,176,000, to remain available until expended, and to be 
     derived from the Falcon and Amistad Operating and Maintenance 
     Fund of the Western Area Power Administration, as provided in 
     section 2 of the Act of June 18, 1954 (68 Stat. 255): 
     Provided, That notwithstanding the provisions of that Act and 
     of 31 U.S.C. 3302, up to $3,948,000 collected by the Western 
     Area Power Administration from the sale of power and related 
     services from the Falcon and Amistad Dams shall be credited 
     to this account as discretionary offsetting collections, to 
     remain available until expended for the sole purpose of 
     funding the annual expenses of the hydroelectric facilities 
     of these Dams and associated Western Area Power 
     Administration activities: Provided further, That the sum 
     herein appropriated for annual expenses shall be reduced as 
     collections are received during the fiscal year so as to 
     result in a final fiscal year 2018 appropriation estimated at 
     not more than $228,000: Provided further, That for purposes 
     of this appropriation, annual expenses means expenditures 
     that are generally recovered in the same year that they are 
     incurred: Provided further, That for fiscal year 2018, the 
     Administrator of the Western Area Power Administration may 
     accept up to $872,000 in funds contributed by United States 
     power customers of the Falcon and Amistad Dams for deposit 
     into the Falcon and Amistad Operating and Maintenance Fund, 
     and such funds shall be available for the purpose for which 
     contributed in like manner as if said sums had been 
     specifically appropriated for such purpose: Provided further, 
     That any such funds shall be available without further 
     appropriation and without fiscal year limitation for use by 
     the Commissioner of the United States Section of the 
     International Boundary and Water Commission for the sole 
     purpose of operating, maintaining, repairing, rehabilitating, 
     replacing, or upgrading the hydroelectric facilities at these 
     Dams in accordance with agreements reached between the 
     Administrator, Commissioner, and the power customers.

                  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission

                         salaries and expenses

       For expenses necessary for the Federal Energy Regulatory 
     Commission to carry out the provisions of the Department of 
     Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including 
     services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, official reception 
     and representation expenses not to exceed $3,000, and the 
     hire of passenger motor vehicles, $367,600,000, to remain 
     available until expended: Provided, That notwithstanding any 
     other provision of law, not to exceed $367,600,000 of 
     revenues from fees and annual charges, and other services and 
     collections in fiscal year 2018 shall be retained and used 
     for expenses necessary in this account, and shall remain 
     available until expended: Provided further, That the sum 
     herein appropriated from the general fund shall be reduced as 
     revenues are received during fiscal year 2018 so as to result 
     in a final fiscal year 2018 appropriation from the general 
     fund estimated at not more than $0.

                GENERAL PROVISIONS--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

                     (including transfer of funds)

       Sec. 301. (a) No appropriation, funds, or authority made 
     available by this title for the Department of Energy shall be 
     used to initiate or resume any program, project, or activity 
     or to prepare or initiate Requests For Proposals or similar 
     arrangements (including Requests for Quotations, Requests for 
     Information, and Funding Opportunity Announcements) for a 
     program, project, or activity if the program, project, or 
     activity has not been funded by Congress.
       (b)(1) Unless the Secretary of Energy notifies the 
     Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress at 
     least 3 full business days in advance, none of the funds made 
     available in this title may be used to--
       (A) make a grant allocation or discretionary grant award 
     totaling $1,000,000 or more;
       (B) make a discretionary contract award or Other 
     Transaction Agreement totaling $1,000,000 or more, including 
     a contract covered by the Federal Acquisition Regulation;
       (C) issue a letter of intent to make an allocation, award, 
     or Agreement in excess of the limits in subparagraph (A) or 
     (B); or
       (D) announce publicly the intention to make an allocation, 
     award, or Agreement in excess of the limits in subparagraph 
     (A) or (B).
       (2) The Secretary of Energy shall submit to the Committees 
     on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress within 15 days 
     of the conclusion of each quarter a report detailing each 
     grant allocation or discretionary grant award totaling less 
     than $1,000,000 provided during the previous quarter.
       (3) The notification required by paragraph (1) and the 
     report required by paragraph (2) shall include the recipient 
     of the award, the amount of the award, the fiscal year for 
     which the funds for the award were appropriated, the account 
     and program, project, or activity from which the funds are 
     being drawn, the title of the award, and a brief description 
     of the activity for which the award is made.
       (c) The Department of Energy may not, with respect to any 
     program, project, or activity that uses budget authority made 
     available in this title under the heading ``Department of 
     Energy--Energy Programs'', enter into a multiyear contract, 
     award a multiyear grant, or enter into a multiyear 
     cooperative agreement unless--
       (1) the contract, grant, or cooperative agreement is funded 
     for the full period of performance as anticipated at the time 
     of award; or
       (2) the contract, grant, or cooperative agreement includes 
     a clause conditioning the Federal Government's obligation on 
     the availability of future year budget authority and the 
     Secretary notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both 
     Houses of Congress at least 3 days in advance.
       (d) Except as provided in subsections (e), (f), and (g), 
     the amounts made available by this title shall be expended as 
     authorized by law for the programs, projects, and activities 
     specified in the ``Bill'' column in the ``Department of 
     Energy'' table included under the heading ``Title III--
     Department of Energy'' in the report of the Committee on 
     Appropriations accompanying this Act.
       (e) The amounts made available by this title may be 
     reprogrammed for any program, project, or activity, and the 
     Department shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of 
     both Houses of Congress at least 30 days prior to the use of 
     any proposed reprogramming that would cause any program, 
     project, or activity funding level to increase or decrease by 
     more than $5,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less, during 
     the time period covered by this Act.
       (f) None of the funds provided in this title shall be 
     available for obligation or expenditure through a 
     reprogramming of funds that--
       (1) creates, initiates, or eliminates a program, project, 
     or activity;
       (2) increases funds or personnel for any program, project, 
     or activity for which funds are denied or restricted by this 
     Act; or
       (3) reduces funds that are directed to be used for a 
     specific program, project, or activity by this Act.
       (g)(1) The Secretary of Energy may waive any requirement or 
     restriction in this section that applies to the use of funds 
     made available for the Department of Energy if compliance 
     with such requirement or restriction would pose a substantial 
     risk to human health, the environment, welfare, or national 
     security.
       (2) The Secretary of Energy shall notify the Committees on 
     Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of any waiver under 
     paragraph (1) as soon as practicable, but not later than 3 
     days after the date of the activity to which a requirement or 
     restriction would otherwise have applied. Such notice shall 
     include an explanation of the substantial risk under 
     paragraph (1) that permitted such waiver.
       (h) The unexpended balances of prior appropriations 
     provided for activities in this Act may be available to the 
     same appropriation accounts for such activities established 
     pursuant to this title. Available balances may be merged with 
     funds in the applicable established accounts and thereafter 
     may be accounted for as one fund for the same time period as 
     originally enacted.
       Sec. 302.  Funds appropriated by this or any other Act, or 
     made available by the transfer of funds in this Act, for 
     intelligence activities are deemed to be specifically 
     authorized by the Congress for purposes of section 504 of the 
     National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3094) during fiscal 
     year 2018 until the enactment of the Intelligence 
     Authorization Act for fiscal year 2018.
       Sec. 303.  None of the funds made available in this title 
     shall be used for the construction of facilities classified 
     as high-hazard nuclear facilities under 10 CFR Part 830 
     unless independent oversight is conducted by the Office of 
     Enterprise Assessments to ensure the project is in compliance 
     with nuclear safety requirements.
       Sec. 304.  None of the funds made available in this title 
     may be used to approve critical decision-2 or critical 
     decision-3 under Department of Energy Order 413.3B, or any 
     successive departmental guidance, for construction projects 
     where the total project cost exceeds $100,000,000, until a 
     separate independent cost estimate has been developed for the 
     project for that critical decision.
       Sec. 305. (a) None of the funds made available in this or 
     any prior Act under the heading ``Defense Nuclear 
     Nonproliferation'' may be made available to enter into new 
     contracts with, or new agreements for Federal assistance to, 
     the Russian Federation.
       (b) The Secretary of Energy may waive the prohibition in 
     subsection (a) if the Secretary determines that such activity 
     is in the national security interests of the United States. 
     This waiver authority may not be delegated.
       (c) A waiver under subsection (b) shall not be effective 
     until 15 days after the date on which the Secretary submits 
     to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
     Congress, in classified form if necessary, a report on the 
     justification for the waiver.
       Sec. 306.  Notwithstanding section 161 of the Energy Policy 
     and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6241), upon a determination 
     by the President in this fiscal year that a regional supply 
     shortage of refined petroleum product of significant scope 
     and duration exists, that a severe increase in the price of 
     refined petroleum product will likely result from such 
     shortage, and that a draw down and sale of refined petroleum 
     product would assist directly and significantly in reducing 
     the adverse impact of such shortage, the Secretary of Energy 
     may draw down and sell refined petroleum product from the 
     Strategic Petroleum Reserve. Proceeds from a sale under

[[Page H7033]]

     this section shall be deposited into the SPR Petroleum 
     Account established in section 167 of the Energy Policy and 
     Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6247), and such amounts shall be 
     available for obligation, without fiscal year limitation, 
     consistent with that section.
       Sec. 307. (a) Drawdown and Sale.--Notwithstanding section 
     161 of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 
     6241), and in addition to sales authorized in sections 403 
     and 404 of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 (42 U.S.C. 6241; 
     42 U.S.C. 6239 note) and section 5010 of the 21st Century 
     Cures Act (42 U.S.C. 6241 note), the Secretary of Energy 
     shall draw down and sell up to $8,400,000 of crude oil from 
     the Strategic Petroleum Reserve during this fiscal year.
       (b) Proceeds.--Proceeds from a sale under this section 
     shall be deposited into the SPR Petroleum Account during this 
     fiscal year and shall be available for the costs of crude oil 
     sales authorized in sections 403 and 404 of the Bipartisan 
     Budget Act of 2015 (42 U.S.C. 6241; 42 U.S.C. 6239 note) and 
     section 5010 of the 21st Century Cures Act (42 U.S.C. 6241 
     note), to remain available until expended.
       (c) Emergency Protection.--The Secretary shall not draw 
     down and sell crude oil under this section in amounts that 
     would limit the authority to sell petroleum products under 
     section 161(h) of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 
     U.S.C. 6241(h)) in the full amount authorized by that 
     subsection.
       Sec. 308. (a) New Regional Reserves.--The Secretary of 
     Energy may not establish any new regional petroleum product 
     reserve unless funding for the proposed regional petroleum 
     product reserve is explicitly requested in advance in an 
     annual budget submission and approved by the Congress in an 
     appropriations Act.
       (b) The budget request or notification shall include--
       (1) the justification for the new reserve;
       (2) a cost estimate for the establishment, operation, and 
     maintenance of the reserve, including funding sources;
       (3) a detailed plan for operation of the reserve, including 
     the conditions upon which the products may be released;
       (4) the location of the reserve; and
       (5) the estimate of the total inventory of the reserve.
       Sec. 309.  Of the amounts made available under this title, 
     not more than $267,901,000 may be transferred to the working 
     capital fund established under section 653 of the Department 
     of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7263).

                                TITLE IV

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                    Appalachian Regional Commission

       For expenses necessary to carry out the programs authorized 
     by the Appalachian Regional Development Act of 1965, and for 
     expenses necessary for the Federal Co-Chairman and the 
     Alternate on the Appalachian Regional Commission, for payment 
     of the Federal share of the administrative expenses of the 
     Commission, including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
     3109, and hire of passenger motor vehicles, $130,000,000, to 
     remain available until expended.

                Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board

                         salaries and expenses

       For expenses necessary for the Defense Nuclear Facilities 
     Safety Board in carrying out activities authorized by chapter 
     21 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2286 et seq.), 
     $30,600,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019.

                        Delta Regional Authority

                         salaries and expenses

       For expenses necessary for the Delta Regional Authority and 
     to carry out its activities, as authorized by the Delta 
     Regional Authority Act of 2000, notwithstanding sections 
     382C(b)(2), 382F(d), 382M, and 382N of said Act, $15,000,000, 
     to remain available until expended.

                           Denali Commission

       For expenses necessary for the Denali Commission including 
     the purchase, construction, and acquisition of plant and 
     capital equipment as necessary and other expenses, 
     $11,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
     notwithstanding the limitations contained in section 306(g) 
     of the Denali Commission Act of 1998: Provided, That funds 
     shall be available for construction projects in an amount not 
     to exceed 80 percent of total project cost for distressed 
     communities, as defined by section 307 of the Denali 
     Commission Act of 1998 (division C, title III, Public Law 
     105-277), as amended by section 701 of appendix D, title VII, 
     Public Law 106-113 (113 Stat. 1501A-280), and an amount not 
     to exceed 50 percent for non-distressed communities: Provided 
     further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law 
     regarding payment of a non-Federal share in connection with a 
     grant-in-aid program, amounts under this heading shall be 
     available for the payment of such a non-Federal share for 
     programs undertaken to carry out the purposes of the 
     Commission.

                  Northern Border Regional Commission

       For expenses necessary for the Northern Border Regional 
     Commission in carrying out activities authorized by subtitle 
     V of title 40, United States Code, $5,000,000, to remain 
     available until expended: Provided, That such amounts shall 
     be available for administrative expenses, notwithstanding 
     section 15751(b) of title 40, United States Code.

                 Southeast Crescent Regional Commission

       For expenses necessary for the Southeast Crescent Regional 
     Commission in carrying out activities authorized by subtitle 
     V of title 40, United States Code, $250,000, to remain 
     available until expended.

                     Nuclear Regulatory Commission

                         salaries and expenses

       For expenses necessary for the Commission in carrying out 
     the purposes of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 and the 
     Atomic Energy Act of 1954, $939,137,000, including official 
     representation expenses not to exceed $25,000, to remain 
     available until expended, of which $30,000,000 shall be 
     derived from the Nuclear Waste Fund: Provided, That of the 
     amount appropriated herein, not more than $9,500,000 may be 
     made available for salaries, travel, and other support costs 
     for the Office of the Commission, to remain available until 
     September 30, 2019, of which, notwithstanding section 
     201(a)(2)(c) of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 (42 
     U.S.C. 5841(a)(2)(c)), the use and expenditure shall only be 
     approved by a majority vote of the Commission: Provided 
     further, That revenues from licensing fees, inspection 
     services, and other services and collections estimated at 
     $779,829,000 in fiscal year 2018 shall be retained and used 
     for necessary salaries and expenses in this account, 
     notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, and shall remain available 
     until expended: Provided further, That of the amounts 
     appropriated under this heading, not less than $10,000,000 
     shall be for activities related to the development of 
     regulatory infrastructure for advanced nuclear technologies, 
     and $16,200,000 shall be for international activities, except 
     that the amounts provided under this proviso shall not be 
     derived from fee revenues, notwithstanding 42 U.S.C. 2214:  
     Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated shall be 
     reduced by the amount of revenues received during fiscal year 
     2018 so as to result in a final fiscal year 2018 
     appropriation estimated at not more than $159,308,000: 
     Provided further, That of the amounts appropriated under this 
     heading, $10,000,000 shall be for university research and 
     development in areas relevant to the Commission's mission, 
     and $5,000,000 shall be for a Nuclear Science and Engineering 
     Grant Program that will support multiyear projects that do 
     not align with programmatic missions but are critical to 
     maintaining the discipline of nuclear science and 
     engineering.

                      office of inspector general

       For expenses necessary for the Office of Inspector General 
     in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act 
     of 1978, $12,859,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2019: Provided, That revenues from licensing fees, inspection 
     services, and other services and collections estimated at 
     $10,555,000 in fiscal year 2018 shall be retained and be 
     available until September 30, 2019, for necessary salaries 
     and expenses in this account, notwithstanding section 3302 of 
     title 31, United States Code: Provided further, That the sum 
     herein appropriated shall be reduced by the amount of 
     revenues received during fiscal year 2018 so as to result in 
     a final fiscal year 2018 appropriation estimated at not more 
     than $2,304,000: Provided further, That of the amounts 
     appropriated under this heading, $1,131,000 shall be for 
     Inspector General services for the Defense Nuclear Facilities 
     Safety Board, which shall not be available from fee revenues.

                  Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board

                         salaries and expenses

       For expenses necessary for the Nuclear Waste Technical 
     Review Board, as authorized by Public Law 100-203, section 
     5051, $3,600,000, to be derived from the Nuclear Waste Fund, 
     to remain available until September 30, 2019.

                GENERAL PROVISIONS--INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

       Sec. 401.  The Nuclear Regulatory Commission shall comply 
     with the July 5, 2011, version of chapter VI of its Internal 
     Commission Procedures when responding to Congressional 
     requests for information.
       Sec. 402. (a) The amounts made available by this title for 
     the Nuclear Regulatory Commission may be reprogrammed for any 
     program, project, or activity, and the Commission shall 
     notify the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
     Congress at least 30 days prior to the use of any proposed 
     reprogramming that would cause any program funding level to 
     increase or decrease by more than $500,000 or 10 percent, 
     whichever is less, during the time period covered by this 
     Act.
       (b)(1) The Nuclear Regulatory Commission may waive the 
     notification requirement in subsection (a) if compliance with 
     such requirement would pose a substantial risk to human 
     health, the environment, welfare, or national security.
       (2) The Nuclear Regulatory Commission shall notify the 
     Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of 
     any waiver under paragraph (1) as soon as practicable, but 
     not later than 3 days after the date of the activity to which 
     a requirement or restriction would otherwise have applied. 
     Such notice shall include an explanation of the substantial 
     risk under paragraph (1) that permitted such waiver and shall 
     provide a detailed report to the Committees of such waiver 
     and changes to funding levels to programs, projects, or 
     activities.
       (c) Except as provided in subsections (a), (b), and (d), 
     the amounts made available by this title for ``Nuclear 
     Regulatory Commission--Salaries and Expenses'' shall be 
     expended as directed in the report of the Committee on 
     Appropriations accompanying this Act.

[[Page H7034]]

       (d) None of the funds provided for the Nuclear Regulatory 
     Commission shall be available for obligation or expenditure 
     through a reprogramming of funds that increases funds or 
     personnel for any program, project, or activity for which 
     funds are denied or restricted by this Act.
       (e) The Commission shall provide a monthly report to the 
     Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress, 
     which includes the following for each program, project, or 
     activity, including any prior year appropriations--
       (1) total budget authority;
       (2) total unobligated balances; and
       (3) total unliquidated obligations.

                                TITLE V

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

       Sec. 501.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may 
     be used in any way, directly or indirectly, to influence 
     congressional action on any legislation or appropriation 
     matters pending before Congress, other than to communicate to 
     Members of Congress as described in 18 U.S.C. 1913.
       Sec. 502. (a) None of the funds made available in title III 
     of this Act may be transferred to any department, agency, or 
     instrumentality of the United States Government, except 
     pursuant to a transfer made by or transfer authority provided 
     in this Act or any other appropriations Act for any fiscal 
     year, transfer authority referenced in the report of the 
     Committee on Appropriations accompanying this Act, or any 
     authority whereby a department, agency, or instrumentality of 
     the United States Government may provide goods or services to 
     another department, agency, or instrumentality.
       (b) None of the funds made available for any department, 
     agency, or instrumentality of the United States Government 
     may be transferred to accounts funded in title III of this 
     Act, except pursuant to a transfer made by or transfer 
     authority provided in this Act or any other appropriations 
     Act for any fiscal year, transfer authority referenced in the 
     report of the Committee on Appropriations accompanying this 
     Act, or any authority whereby a department, agency, or 
     instrumentality of the United States Government may provide 
     goods or services to another department, agency, or 
     instrumentality.
       (c) The head of any relevant department or agency funded in 
     this Act utilizing any transfer authority shall submit to the 
     Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a 
     semiannual report detailing the transfer authorities, except 
     for any authority whereby a department, agency, or 
     instrumentality of the United States Government may provide 
     goods or services to another department, agency, or 
     instrumentality, used in the previous 6 months and in the 
     year-to-date. This report shall include the amounts 
     transferred and the purposes for which they were transferred, 
     and shall not replace or modify existing notification 
     requirements for each authority.
       Sec. 503.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used in contravention of Executive Order No. 12898 of 
     February 11, 1994 (Federal Actions to Address Environmental 
     Justice in Minority Populations and Low-Income Populations).
       Sec. 504. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act 
     may be used to maintain or establish a computer network 
     unless such network blocks the viewing, downloading, and 
     exchanging of pornography.
       (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
     necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law 
     enforcement agency or any other entity carrying out criminal 
     investigations, prosecution, or adjudication activities.
       Sec. 505.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to further implementation of the coastal and marine 
     spatial planning and ecosystem-based management components of 
     the National Ocean Policy developed under Executive Order No. 
     13547 of July 19, 2010.
       Sec. 506.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used for the removal of any federally owned or operated 
     dam unless the removal was previously authorized by Congress.
       Sec. 507.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to conduct closure of adjudicatory functions, 
     technical review, or support activities associated with the 
     Yucca Mountain geologic repository license application, or 
     for actions that irrevocably remove the possibility that 
     Yucca Mountain may be a repository option in the future.

                           references to act

       Sec. 508.  Except as expressly provided otherwise, any 
     reference to ``this Act'' contained in this division shall be 
     treated as referring only to the provisions of this division.

                          reference to report

       Sec. 509.  Any reference to a ``report accompanying this 
     Act'' contained in this division shall be treated as a 
     reference to House Report 115-230. The effect of such Report 
     shall be limited to this division and shall apply for 
     purposes of determining the allocation of funds provided by, 
     and the implementation of, this division.

                       spending reduction account

       Sec. 510.  $0.
       Sec. 511.  None of the funds made available by this 
     division may be used for the Cape Wind Energy Project on the 
     Outer Continental Shelf off Massachusetts, Nantucket Sound.
       Sec. 512.  For ``Department of Energy--Electricity Delivery 
     and Energy Reliability'' for energy storage systems 
     demonstrations as authorized by section 641 of the Energy 
     Independence and Security Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17231), 
     there is hereby appropriated, and the amount otherwise 
     provided by this Act for ``Department of Energy--Departmental 
     Administration'' is hereby reduced by, $10,000,000.
       Sec. 513.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used in contravention of section 2102 of the Water 
     Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014 or section 210 
     of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986.
       Sec. 514.  None of the funds made available under title I 
     of division D of this Act may be used to require an economic 
     re-evaluation of any project authorized under title VIII of 
     the Water Resources Development Act of 2007.
       Sec. 515.  The amounts otherwise provided by this Act are 
     revised by reducing the amount made available for ``Corps of 
     Engineers-Civil--Investigations'', and increasing the amount 
     made available for the same account, by $3,000,000.
       Sec. 516.  The amounts otherwise provided by this Act are 
     revised by reducing the amount made available for ``Corps of 
     Engineers-Civil--Construction'', and increasing the amount 
     made available for the same account, by $100,000,000.
       Sec. 517.  None of the funds made available by this Act for 
     ``Department of Energy--Energy Programs--Science'' may be 
     used in contravention of the Department of Energy 
     Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.).
       Sec. 518.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to prepare, propose, or promulgate any regulation or 
     guidance that references or relies on the analysis contained 
     in--
       (1) ``Technical Support Document: Social Cost of Carbon for 
     Regulatory Impact Analysis Under Executive Order 12866'', 
     published by the Interagency Working Group on Social Cost of 
     Carbon, United States Government, in February 2010;
       (2) ``Technical Support Document: Technical Update of the 
     Social Cost of Carbon for Regulatory Impact Analysis Under 
     Executive Order 12866'', published by the Interagency Working 
     Group on Social Cost of Carbon, United States Government, in 
     May 2013 and revised in November 2013;
       (3) ``Revised Draft Guidance for Federal Departments and 
     Agencies on Consideration of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and the 
     Effects of Climate Change in NEPA Reviews'', published by the 
     Council on Environmental Quality on December 24, 2014 (79 
     Fed. Reg. 77801);
       (4) ``Technical Support Document: Technical Update of the 
     Social Cost of Carbon for Regulatory Impact Analysis Under 
     Executive Order 12866'', published by the Interagency Working 
     Group on Social Cost of Carbon, United States Government, in 
     July 2015;
       (5) ``Addendum to the Technical Support Document on Social 
     Cost of Carbon for Regulatory Impact Analysis Under Executive 
     Order 12866: Application of the Methodology to Estimate the 
     Social Cost of Methane and the Social Cost of Nitrous 
     Oxide'', published by the Interagency Working Group on Social 
     Cost of Greenhouse Gases, United States Government, in August 
     2016; or
       (6) ``Technical Support Document: Technical Update of the 
     Social Cost of Carbon for Regulatory Impact Analysis Under 
     Executive Order 12866'', published by the Interagency Working 
     Group on Social Cost of Greenhouse Gases, United States 
     Government, in August 2016.
       Sec. 519.  None of the funds made available in this 
     division may be used--
       (1) to implement or enforce section 430.32(x) of title 10, 
     Code of Federal Regulations; or
       (2) to implement or enforce the standards established by 
     the tables contained in section 325(i)(1)(B) of the Energy 
     Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6295(i)(1)(B)) with 
     respect to BPAR incandescent reflector lamps, BR incandescent 
     reflector lamps, and ER incandescent reflector lamps.
       This Act may be cited as the ``Energy and Water Development 
     and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2018''.

   DIVISION M--DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY BORDER INFRASTRUCTURE 
                  CONSTRUCTION APPROPRIATION ACT, 2018

       The following sums are appropriated, out of any money in 
     the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the Department 
     of Homeland Security for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
     2018, namely:

                   U.S. Customs and Border Protection

              procurement, construction, and improvements

       For necessary expenses for U.S. Customs and Border 
     Protection for procurement, construction, and improvements, 
     $1,571,239,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020, 
     which shall be available as follows:
       (1) $784,000,000 for 32 miles of new border bollard fencing 
     in the Rio Grande Valley, Texas.
       (2) $498,000,000 for 28 miles of new bollard levee wall in 
     the Rio Grande Valley, Texas.
       (3) $251,000,000 for 14 miles of secondary fencing in San 
     Diego, California.
       (4) $38,239,000 for planning for border wall construction.

                      TITLE I--GENERAL PROVISIONS


                           references to act

       Sec. 101. Except as expressly provided otherwise, any 
     reference to ``this Act'' contained in this division shall be 
     treated as referring only to the provisions of this division.

[[Page H7035]]

        This Act may be cited as the ``Department of Homeland 
     Security Border Infrastructure Construction Appropriations 
     Act, 2018''.

                              {time}  1830

  The Acting CHAIR. Are there any points of order against the bill?
  For what purpose does the gentleman from Virginia seek recognition?


                             Point of Order

  Mr. GOODLATTE. Mr. Chairman, I raise a point of order against the 
provision beginning with the colon on page 327, line 22, and continuing 
through the word ``crime'' on page 328, line 2, of the Rules Committee 
print because it violates clause 2 of House rule XXI. Under clause 2(b) 
of rule XXI, a provision that changes existing law may not be reported 
in a general appropriations bill.
  Section 510 of Division C provides that 5 percent of the amounts 
available for obligation from the Department of Justice's Crime Victims 
Fund be made available for grants to Indian tribal governments in 
fiscal year 2018. This provision violates rule XXI because it changes 
existing law. The Victims of Crime Act already provides a statutory 
distribution formula of the Crime Victims Fund for fiscal year 2018. 
Section 510 would change the formula. This statutory formula is 
squarely in the jurisdiction of the Judiciary Committee.
  As this amendment would change current law by altering a statutory 
formula, it is a violation of clause 2(b) of rule XXI.
  Therefore, I insist on my point of order.
  The Acting CHAIR. Does any other Member wish to be heard on the point 
of order?
  The Chair is prepared to rule.
  The Chair finds that this provision explicitly supersedes existing 
law.
  The provision, therefore, constitutes legislation in violation of 
clause 2 of rule XXI.
  The point of order is sustained, and the provision is stricken from 
the bill.
  Are there any other points of order against the bill?
  For what purpose does the gentleman from Texas seek recognition?


                             Point of Order

  Mr. HENSARLING. Mr. Chairman, I raise a point of order against the 
following provision of H.R. 3354 for failure to comply with clause 2 of 
rule XXI:
  Beginning with the semicolon on page 535, line 12, through ``(12 
U.S.C. 3907(b)(2).'' on page 536, line 14.
  This provision proposes to change existing law by altering the 
Federal Reserve's conduct of the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and 
Review regime.
  This constitutes legislation on an appropriations bill in violation 
of clause 2 of rule XXI. I ask for a ruling from the Chair.
  The Acting CHAIR. Does any other Member wish to be heard on this 
point of order?
  If not, the Chair is prepared to rule.
  The Chair finds that this provision directly amends existing law.
  The provision, therefore, constitutes legislation in violation of 
clause 2 of rule XXI.
  The point of order is sustained, and the provision is stricken from 
the bill.
  Are there any other points of order against the bill?
  For what purpose does the gentleman from Texas seek recognition?


                             Point of Order

  Mr. HENSARLING. Mr. Chair, I raise a point of order against section 
7080 of H.R. 3354 for failure to comply with clause 2 of rule XXI.
  This provision proposes to directly amend existing law by changing 
the statutory quorum requirement of the Export-Import Bank.
  This constitutes legislation on an appropriations bill in violation 
of clause 2 of rule XXI. I ask for a ruling from the Chair.
  The Acting CHAIR. Does any other Member wish to be heard on the point 
of order?
  If not, the Chair is prepared to rule.
  The Chair finds that this section directly amends existing law.
  The section, therefore, constitutes legislation in violation of 
clause 2 of rule XXI.
  The point of order is sustained, and the section is stricken from the 
bill.
  For what purpose does the gentlewoman from California seek 
recognition?
  Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California. Mr. Chair, I appeal the ruling of 
the Chair, and I seek time to debate the appeal.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is, Shall the decision of the Chair 
stand as the judgment of the Committee?
  The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from California for 5 minutes to 
debate the appeal.
  Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California. Mr. Chairman, I must say, I am 
deeply disappointed by the sinister attempt being made here today to 
strip a critical Republican-led amendment from this appropriations bill 
that would thwart the will of overwhelming majorities in both Houses 
and undermine the work of the job-creating Export-Import Bank.
  As of the end of 2016, as many as 50 major transactions, with an 
aggregate value of nearly $40 billion, had piled up in the Bank's 
approval pipeline. And according to the Ex-Im Bank, if approved, these 
transactions would support more than 100,000 jobs in the United States.
  The longer we wait, the greater the risk that these pending 
transactions will be withdrawn and sourced by our foreign competitors 
and the greater the likelihood that jobs that would have otherwise 
supported here in the United States will move offshore.
  The chairman of the Financial Services Committee claims that striking 
this amendment would have ``no budgetary effect'' but this is hardly 
the case. President Trump's own fiscal year 2018 budget estimates that 
a fully functional Export-Import Bank would generate $587.7 million in 
excess funds in the next fiscal year.

  The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman will suspend.
  The gentlewoman is reminded that debate on the appeal must be 
confined to the question of whether the Chair's ruling should be 
sustained or not and not the substance of the underlying section.
  The gentlewoman is still recognized but must confine her remarks to 
the appeal itself.
  Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California. Mr. Chair, I would like to continue 
to appeal the ruling of the Chair.
  I hardly think it is in order, and I would ask the Chair to rule the 
request by Chairman Hensarling as not in violation.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is again, Shall the decision of the 
Chair stand as the judgment of the Committee?
  The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the ayes 
had it.
  The Acting CHAIR. The decision of the Chair stands as the judgment of 
the Committee.
  No further amendment to the bill, as amended, shall be in order 
except those printed in part B of House Report 115-295, amendments en 
bloc described in section 3 of House Resolution 500, and pro forma 
amendments described in section 4 of that resolution.
  Each further amendment printed in part B of the report shall be 
considered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered only 
by a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, 
shall be debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided 
and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, may be withdrawn by 
the proponent at any time before action thereon, shall not be subject 
to amendment except as provided by section 4 of House Resolution 500, 
and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question.
  It shall be in order at any time for the chair of the Committee on 
Appropriations or his designee to offer amendments en bloc consisting 
of further amendments printed in part B of the report not earlier 
disposed of. Amendments en bloc shall be considered as read, shall be 
debatable for 20 minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair 
and ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations or their 
designees, shall not be subject to amendment, except as provided by 
section 4 of House Resolution 500, and shall not be subject to a demand 
for division of the question.
  During consideration of the bill for amendment, the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on Appropriations or their respective 
designees may offer up to 20 pro forma amendments each at any point for 
the purpose of debate.
  It is now in order to consider amendment No. 1 printed in part B of 
House Report 115-295.


      Amendments En Bloc No. 1 Offered by Mr. Aderholt of Alabama

  Mr. ADERHOLT. Mr. Chairman, pursuant to House Resolution 500, as the 
designee of Chairman Frelinghuysen, I offer amendments en bloc.


 =========================== NOTE =========================== 

  
  September 6, 2017, on page H7035, the following appeared: Mr. 
ADERHOLT. Mr. Chairman, pursuant to House Resolution 500, I offer
  
  The online version has been corrected to read: Mr. ADERHOLT. Mr. 
Chairman, pursuant to House Resolution 500, as the designee of 
Chairman Frelinghuysen, I offer


 ========================= END NOTE ========================= 


[[Page H7036]]

  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendments en bloc.
  Amendments en bloc No. 1 consisting of amendment Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 
6, 7, 8, 9, 13, 19, and 20 printed in part B of House Report 115-295, 
offered by Mr. Aderholt of Alabama:


           amendment no. 1 offered by mr. curbelo of florida

       Page 141, line 23, after the first dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $1,500,000)''.
       Page 142, line 11, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $1,500,000)''.
       Page 142, line 12, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $1,500,000)''.
       Page 147, line 21, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $1,500,000)''.


           amendment no. 2 offered by mr. graves of louisiana

       Page 141, line 23, after the first dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $400,000)''.
       Page 142, line 11, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $400,000)''.
       Page 142, line 12, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $400,000)''.
       Page 153, line 10, after the first dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $400,000)''.
       Page 153, line 10, after the second dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $400,000)''.


             amendment no. 3 offered by mr. soto of florida

       Page 144, line 4 after the first dollar amount, insert 
     ``(decreased by $1,000,000)''.
       Page 153, line 10, after the first dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $1,000,000)''.
       Page 154, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $1,000,000)''.


           amendment no. 4 offered by mr. bera of california

       Page 146, line 12, after dollar amount, insert ``(decreased 
     by $2,000,000)''.
       Page 167, line 12, after dollar amount, insert ``(increased 
     by $2,000,000)''.


             amendment no. 5 offered by mr. mast of florida

       Page 147, line 6, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $5,563,000)''.
       Page 166, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $5,563,000)''.


             amendment no. 6 offered by mr. mast of florida

       Page 150, Line 5, after the dollar amount insert 
     ``(increased by $2,000,000)''.
       Page 156, Line 13, after the dollar amount insert 
     ``(reduced by $2,000,000)''.


           amendment no. 7 offered by mr. nolan of minnesota

       Page 170, line 12, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $479,000)''.
       Page 185, line 17, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $479,000)''.


             amendment no. 8 offered by mr. mast of florida

       Page 198, line 22, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $1,500,000)''.
       Page 199, line 10, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $1,500,000)''.


              amendment no. 9 offered by mr. young of iowa

       Page 244, strike line 23 and all that follows through page 
     245, line 6.


          amendment no. 13 offered by ms. jackson lee of texas

       At the end of division B (before the short title), insert 
     the following:
       Sec. __.  For an additional amount for ``Department of 
     Agriculture--National Institute of Food and Agriculture--
     Research and Education Activities'', for the award of 
     teaching, research, and extension capacity building grants at 
     certain colleges and universities, as authorized by section 
     1417(b)(4) of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, 
     and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3152(b)(4)), there 
     is hereby appropriated, and the amount otherwise provided by 
     this Act for ``Department of Agriculture--Office of the Chief 
     Information Officer'' is hereby reduced by, $500,000.


           amendment no. 19 offered by ms. moore of wisconsin

       At the end of division B (before the short title), insert 
     the following:
       Sec. __.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used in contravention of--
       (1) section 9(b)(10) of the Richard B. Russell National 
     School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1758(b)(10)); or
       (2) section 245.8 of title 7, Code of Federal Regulations.


            amendment no. 20 offered by mr. soto of florida

       Page 141, line 23, after the first dollar amount, insert 
     ``(decreased by $600,000)''.
       Page 142, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(decreased by $600,000)''.
       Page 163, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $500,000)''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 500, the gentleman 
from Alabama (Mr. Aderholt) and the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Bishop) 
each will control 10 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Alabama.
  Mr. ADERHOLT. Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I wanted to note a few concerns 
with items in the en bloc amendment. I am not opposing it, but I want 
to lay down some markers.
  On the amendment by the gentleman from Florida relating to ag 
research, my major concern about the amendment is that the intent is, 
in effect, to earmark USDA competitive research grants. That really is 
a no-no. USDA's Agriculture and Food Research Initiative is one of the 
jewels in our bill. We have built up funding for it over time and have 
zealously protected it against any efforts by Congress to say what 
research is and is not funded.
  The agency in charge, the National Institute of Food and Agriculture, 
has a complex internal process for deciding what areas to focus on, and 
that is free from political interference. For AFRI to retain its 
credibility, we must not start micromanaging that process and 
specifying research areas and amounts, as the amendment does.
  My other concern is that cutting the Agricultural Marketing Service 
by $2 million is not a wise choice. In many ways, AMS is the little 
engine that could. Of critical importance to many Members on both sides 
of the aisle is its role in overseeing the National Organic Program and 
the Specialty Crops Program.
  Similarly, on the gentleman's NRCS amendment, I want to point out 
that cutting the National Agricultural Statistics Service, as the 
amendment would do, is not a good idea. NASS is USDA's premier 
statistics agency.
  Anyone in the agriculture business can tell you that statistics are 
extremely important to farmers, to ranchers, and industry. NASS 
produces information on production and prices for virtually every crop 
grown in the United States, and the major livestock categories, 
floraculture, organic farming, farm income, land values, and even 
computer usage on farms; so this is an important agency that needs 
every penny that we give it.
  The amendments relating to watershed and flood prevention operations 
and specialty crops for Members on my side of the aisle, unfortunately, 
make reductions to the Offices of General Counsel and the Chief 
Economist, both very important parts of USDA.
  Again, I do not oppose the en bloc amendment, but I did want to make 
these points.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. ADERHOLT. Mr. Chairman, I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from 
Louisiana (Mr. Graves).
  Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana. Mr. Chairman, I want to thank the gentleman 
from Alabama and the gentleman from New Jersey for their help.
  The coast of Louisiana has experienced extraordinary challenges over 
the last several decades--everything from the management of the 
Mississippi River system through levees, the BP oil spill, and now, an 
invasive end sector scale on some of the vegetation in coastal 
Louisiana.
  When you add up the cumulative impact of all of these things, our 
State has lost about 2,000 square miles of our coast. That is 2,000 
square miles that the Gulf of Mexico has encroached upon; that is 2,000 
square miles where our communities are much more vulnerable now to 
hurricanes. And we are certainly all sensitive to that with Hurricane 
Harvey just hitting our State and Texas, and Hurricane Irma currently 
headed toward the mainland of the United States.
  An amendment that was agreed to as part of this en bloc package 
simply transfers $400,000 from an administrative account to research 
through APHIS, to study this invasive scale. And this may sound like 
some small issue that doesn't matter, but it is causing significant 
impact, to the tune of square miles of additional coastal loss in 
Louisiana that is going to make our communities that much more 
vulnerable and cause significant environmental impact.
  So I want to thank the gentleman from Alabama and the gentleman from 
New Jersey for their assistance and including our amendment today that 
is going to ensure that we can research this, that we can find a 
solution, and that we can be proactive and prevent additional loss and 
additional assault on the coast of Louisiana.
  Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, let me just inquire how much 
time I have remaining.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Georgia has 7\1/2\ minutes 
remaining.
  Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the 
gentlewoman from Wisconsin (Ms. Moore).

[[Page H7037]]

  


                              {time}  1845

  Ms. MOORE. Mr. Chair, my amendment would protect the National School 
Lunch Act's current prohibition against discrimination or overt 
identification of any pupil for their inability to pay for their school 
lunches, a practice called lunch shaming.
  Mr. Chair, I know what it is like to be both hungry and ashamed at 
lunchtime, because I had no lunch money. I couldn't wait until mock 
chicken day because that was the day that kids didn't like it and they 
would let me eat their unwanted food.
  I starved at school, and today, as a Member of Congress, I am 
speaking out against lunch shaming, which should not occur in the 
United States of America. Certainly lunch shaming should not occur with 
embarrassing tactics of school administrators, like marking a child 
with a lunch money stamp or serving them a cold cheese sandwich instead 
of the nutritious hot meal received by their peers, or, remarkably, 
denying them food because they have no money.
  Denying children food is definitely child abuse and neglect, and the 
school district is doing this while children are in their custody 
during school hours. I couldn't do anything about this as a child, but 
I am proud to be standing here today as a Member of Congress saying 
that this practice must end.
  My amendment simply reinforces current law that states: ``There shall 
be no physical segregation or any other discrimination against any 
child eligible for a free lunch or reduced-price lunch, nor shall there 
be any overt identification of any child by special tokens or tickets 
or any other means.''
  I am just wanting to reinforce what is already on the books. I would 
urge adoption of this amendment. And if allowed, I think that this body 
should go further and take up H.R. 2401 sponsored by my colleague, 
Representative Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, which has been the 
first State to ban the practice of lunch shaming.
  Please vote for this amendment.
  Mr. ADERHOLT. Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the 
gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. Jackson Lee).
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Chair, I thank the gentleman from Georgia for 
his leadership, and the manager of this appropriations process.
  I cannot start a discussion of my particular amendment, very 
briefly--and I thank my colleagues for the amendment being included in 
the en bloc--without again mentioning the devastation in the Gulf Coast 
region and the need that we have on all aspects of recovery, and will 
look forward to an effective investment for the long haul.
  My amendment contributes to that aspect, and that is that the 
amendment makes a modest $500,000 increase to the National Institute of 
Food and Agriculture's Research and Education Activities account. The 
intent of the amendment is to enable the NIFA to increase funding by 
$500,000 to 1890 institutions, which are HBCU land grant colleges, to 
support education, research, and scholarship at HBCUs.
  The amendment is paid for by an offset of $944,000 in the chief 
information officer account. The offset is budget neutral and reduces 
outlays by $1 million, according to the CBO.
  This particular amendment supports the work of the National Institute 
of Food and Agriculture by making a modest increase that will help our 
land grant colleges. It will help our land grant colleges in the 
context of them contributing, one, to a better understanding of food 
deserts, better understanding of expanding opportunities for research, 
economic analysis, extension in higher education, and it also will be 
supportive of colleges that, in many instances, are impacted by natural 
disasters. The HBCUs have been leaders in agricultural research.
  The Acting CHAIR. The time of the gentlewoman has expired.
  Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I yield an additional 1 minute to 
the gentlewoman.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Some of the colleges that I am speaking of will be 
major contributors in the concept of expanded food access for many of 
our communities.
  Mr. Chair, I want to thank the gentleman for extending the time to 
me. The amendment is a good amendment and it would benefit rural, 
suburban, and urban areas by maximizing the potential for farming 
activity in those areas where green space is limited or land is 
underused. Again, the combination of agricultural fighting against food 
deserts, which many of my constituents are facing now after Hurricane 
Harvey, is an important extended impact that I think will be helpful as 
we go forward.
  I thank my colleagues for their support of the Jackson Lee amendment 
No. 13.
  Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my 
time.
  Mr. CURBELO of Florida. Mr. Chair, on August 26, 2015, several 
Oriental Fruit Flies were found in South Miami-Dade County, Florida. 
The discovery of this pest was cause for serious concern, as the very 
destructive Oriental Fruit Fly has been known to infest over 430 kinds 
of fruits and vegetables, including main crops grown in Florida like 
avocado, mango, tomato, squash, and peppers. Unlike other states, 
Florida's farm production provides essential produce during, and 
immediately following, each winter season, and the spread of this pest 
can have a devastating impact on our nation's food supply.
  In coordination with state and federal officials, a quarantine was 
implemented in October 2015 to cover 98 square-miles in South Miami-
Dade County. Through the dedicated work of officials at USDA and 
Florida Department of Agriculture, there have been no new discoveries 
of flies. The quarantine was lifted in February 2016.
  While the quarantine was absolutely necessary to ensure complete 
eradication of the Fly, it had a devastating effect on the farmers 
located in the designated area. We cannot let an outbreak like this 
happen again.
  A better understanding of how this pest spreads in our region would 
help lessen the impact of this threat. The $1.5 million my amendment 
provides to the USDA's Agricultural Research Service would go towards 
studying inspection breakdowns at ports of entry, how weather patterns 
influence the migration of Oriental Fruit Flies, and other factors are 
essential in discerning effective mitigation strategies. This is a 
small, but smart investment to help protect Florida's $120 billion 
agriculture industry.
  I urge all my colleagues to support my amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendments en bloc offered 
by the gentleman from Alabama (Mr. Aderholt).
  The en bloc amendments were agreed to.


               Amendment No. 10 Offered by Mr. Cicilline

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 10 
printed in part B of House Report 115-295.
  Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 245, strike line 7 and all that follows through 
     ``Executive Order 13547.''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 500, the gentleman 
from Rhode Island (Mr. Cicilline) and a Member opposed each will 
control 5 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Rhode Island.
  Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Chair, I want to thank my colleagues: Congressman 
Beyer, Congressman Langevin, Congresswoman Bonamici, Congressman 
Keating, Congressman Ted Lieu, and Congressman Schneider, who are 
cosponsors of this amendment.
  This amendment would strike the harmful provision that prevents 
implementation of the National Ocean Policy. The National Ocean Policy 
has helped guide ocean management for over 7 years. NOP offers an 
opportunity to develop commonsense tools to manage the ocean economy. 
The Regional Ocean Council allows States throughout the Northeast to 
pool resources, strengthen the voice of businessowners, and facilitate 
coordination with Federal partners.
  The National Ocean Policy allows Federal agencies to coordinate 
implementation of over 100 ocean laws and allows State and local 
governments to have a say in the ocean planning process.
  My home State of Rhode Island, the Ocean State, has benefited greatly 
from the National Ocean Policy, and I want to take a moment to 
acknowledge the extraordinary leadership of my colleague, Senator 
Sheldon Whitehouse, who has championed this effort.
  As one example, with help from the National Ocean Policy, the Block 
Island Wind Farm was successfully completed and today is powering an 
estimated 17,000 homes.

[[Page H7038]]

  The Northeast depends on clean water for fishing, shipping, 
recreation, and tourism. Estuaries like Narragansett Bay, Cape Cod Bay, 
Buzzards Bay, and Long Island Sound need relevant data on water quality 
to guide future decisions and management actions. It is a terrible idea 
to undermine the development of good ocean policy and efforts to 
protect water quality.
  The National Ocean Policy does not create any new regulations, 
supersede existing regulations, or modify any agency's established 
mission, jurisdiction, or authority. Instead, it helps to coordinate 
the implementation of current regulations by Federal agencies to 
establish a more effective and efficient decisionmaking process.
  NOP gives life to a vision of stewardship through the thoughtful 
implementation of regulations and coordination in protecting our 
treasured oceans.
  Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to support this amendment and to 
strike this ill-advised provision.
  Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. ADERHOLT. Mr. Chair, I rise in opposition to the amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Alabama is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. ADERHOLT. Mr. Chair, the executive order on National Ocean Policy 
is an Obama administration policy. It lacks clear statutory authority. 
Instead of streamlining Federal management, it potentially adds layers 
of additional bureaucracy and Federal overreach.
  The National Ocean Policy has the potential to harm both terrestrial 
and marine economic values by affecting sectors such as agriculture, 
fishing, construction, manufacturing, oil, gas, and renewable energy, 
among others.
  This body has taken the position in the past to pause the 
implementation of the executive order on the National Ocean Policy as 
this uncertainty continues around the meaning of the policy, how will 
we implement it, and the unintended consequences.
  The policy was developed unilaterally by the prior administration 
without involving or consulting with Congress.
  Additionally, the Natural Resources Committee has expressed concern 
about the policy, as did a letter signed by over 80 groups supporting 
the provision in the underlying bill. We are not saying that ocean 
policy in general does not make sense or is something that we could not 
support.
  My home State of Alabama is a coastal State. All I am saying is that 
I think we need to revisit this policy, take a bottom-up approach by 
working with stakeholders, and have something work its way through 
Congress.
  Working to resolve ocean management challenges should be nonpartisan 
and something that this Congress could achieve; therefore, I oppose the 
amendment and I urge my colleagues to do the same.
  Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Chair, may I inquire how much time I have?
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Rhode Island has 3 minutes 
remaining.
  Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Chair, I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentleman 
from the great State of Rhode Island (Mr. Langevin), my distinguished 
senior colleague.
  Mr. LANGEVIN. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman for yielding me 
time.
  Mr. Chairman, once again we are on the House floor debating ocean 
planning. The reality is that comprehensive ocean planning works. We 
have done it in Rhode Island, and we have done it throughout the 
Northeast region. Ocean planning is a success because it brings 
everyone to the table. Everyone is part of the dialogue and the 
conversation.
  The process forces cooperation and compromise by, again, opening 
dialogue among fishermen, scientists, boaters, and others.
  There is an impression, by the way, from some of my colleagues that 
ocean planning is a Federal land grab of the oceans. Well, it is 
anything but. It is about local control done at the regional level--
something many of my colleagues across the aisle often like to support.
  Mr. Chairman, we can't turn back the clock on our oceans by allowing 
this rider to remain in the bill. We have come too far. I want to 
commend the work of the sponsors of this amendment. I also want to 
commend my colleague, Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, across the aisle, who 
has done so much work to preserve the oceans, including creating the 
National Endowment for the Oceans Act.

  Mr. Chairman, in the past we have driven species to the point of 
extension, destroyed natural habitat, and driven our oceans to the 
brink. I implore my colleagues not to take us back to that era. Please 
support this amendment and support ocean planning.
  Mr. ADERHOLT. Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Chair, I yield 45 seconds to the distinguished 
gentleman from Illinois (Mr. Schneider).
  Mr. SCHNEIDER. Mr. Chairman, I rise today as a proud cosponsor of 
this amendment.
  This amendment is significant not only to our oceans, but to our 
Great Lakes. The Great Lakes contain a fifth of the world's freshwater 
and are a magnificent natural wonder. They are critical to our economy 
and the quality of life in my district and in many States.
  The National Ocean Policy helps protect the integrity of the Great 
Lakes' ecosystem. However, this bill would undermine the National Ocean 
Policy and the ability of agencies to coordinate with States, local 
governments, and other agencies to protect these beautiful waters.
  If we are to sustain our national, ecological, and environmental 
health, and its natural beauty and precious resources, we must protect 
the National Ocean Policy. That is why I support this amendment, and I 
urge my colleagues to do the same.
  Mr. ADERHOLT. Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Chair, I yield the balance of my time to the 
distinguished gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Bishop).
  Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I thank the gentleman for yielding 
me time.
  Mr. Chair, I find it troubling that Congress, having enacted numerous 
laws governing the oceans and coasts, and having put 11 departments and 
4 different agencies in charge of administering those laws, now seems 
to pause in the effort to bring consistency to that process.
  The USDA has an extremely limited role in ocean policy, and it is so 
little that I often wonder why the majority feels it necessary to stop 
it.
  I also wonder why anyone in a rural area would want the USDA's voice 
to be excluded from any discussion of policy. Shouldn't the interests 
of the farmers and the ranchers who are served by the USDA be taken 
into consideration?
  Mr. Chair, I support the amendment and I urge a ``yes'' vote.
  The Acting CHAIR. The time of the gentleman from Rhode Island has 
expired.
  Mr. ADERHOLT. Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Rhode Island (Mr. Cicilline).
  The amendment was agreed to.

                              {time}  1900

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 11 
printed in part B of House Report 115-295.
  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 12 
printed in part B of House Report 115-295.


        Amendment No. 14 Offered by Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 14 
printed in part B of House Report 115-295.
  Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I have an amendment at the 
desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:
       At the end of division B (before the short title), insert 
     the following:
       Sec. __.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to revoke an exception made--
       (1) pursuant to the rule entitled ``Exceptions to 
     Geographic Areas for Official Agencies Under the USGSA'' 
     published by the Department of Agriculture in the Federal 
     Register on April 18, 2003 (68 Fed. Reg. 19139); and

[[Page H7039]]

       (2) on a date before April 14, 2017.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 500, the gentleman 
from Illinois (Mr. Rodney Davis) and a Member opposed each will control 
5 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Illinois.
  Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time 
as I may consume.
  Mr. Chair, I rise today to offer this amendment which would prevent 
the Grain Inspection, Packers & Stockyards Administration from using 
any funds to revoke service agreements--also known as exceptions--in 
place before April 14, 2017.
  At its core, this amendment, supported by my colleague, Congresswoman 
Cheri Bustos, is about reinforcing congressional intent, preventing 
further mismanagement, promoting good customer service--corrections we 
must make due to a bureaucratic failure at GIPSA.
  Mr. Chairman, in the U.S., grain handlers are assigned a USDA-
approved inspection agency based upon the grain handlers' geographic 
location. To utilize official inspection services, grain handlers must 
go through their assigned official inspection agency unless they apply 
for and receive an exception from GIPSA. Only with an exception may 
grain handlers receive services from an alternate inspection agency 
outside of their assigned territory.
  During the drafting of the 2015 Agriculture Reauthorizations Act, one 
of my priorities was to provide for more opportunities for these 
exceptions to be considered and granted. That legislation passed this 
Chamber by a voice vote and included a provision which created a new 
process by which grain handlers could petition GIPSA for an exception.
  When it was signed into law, I felt the provision accomplished my 
goal to provide grain handlers with greater opportunities to utilize 
exceptions.
  In July of 2016, GIPSA reaffirmed my initial pleasure with the 
provision when it released its final rule governing the new exception 
process stating: ``GIPSA currently has 95 agreements for agencies to 
operate outside of their assigned territories and GIPSA will continue 
to honor those agreements.''
  So imagine my surprise and disappointment when, in April of this 
year, GIPSA contradicted itself and released a directive opening a back 
door for official grain inspection agencies to revoke those 95 service 
agreements.
  As a result of this directive, an official inspection agency can now 
unilaterally request that GIPSA or the USDA revoke a service agreement 
with neither the grain handler nor the alternate inspection agency 
having a say in the process.
  This runs contrary to the original intent of the legislation, which 
was to provide grain handlers with greater opportunities to utilize 
exceptions, not less.
  By supporting my amendment today, we can temporarily halt this 
misinterpretation. As it stands, GIPSA's interpretation of the law has 
caused many grain handlers to lose their service agreements--even 
though these grain handlers have operated under these exceptions for 
years.
  This includes my constituent Scott Docherty of Topflight Grain 
Cooperative in Monticello, Illinois. Scott has been using the same 
grain inspection service for more than 20 years when GIPSA sent him a 
notice giving him less than 30 days to prepare for a change in service.
  The issue at stake is a prime example of bureaucratic failure. In our 
current inspection process, the grain handlers are the customers, yet 
they are not given a say under the new directive, not granted enough 
time to plan for the disruption, and they are the last to find out 
about this drastic change in service.
  They deserve better, Mr. Chairman. By supporting this amendment, we 
can reclaim congressional intent, prevent GIPSA from revoking the 
remaining service agreements in place before April 14 of this year, an 
outcome Congress never intended.
  GIPSA's interpretation of the law may be wrong, but I do want to 
thank the USDA for working with me to ensure my amendment is not 
misinterpreted and accomplishes what I have sought to do. And that is, 
to prevent GIPSA from revoking the remaining service agreements. I look 
forward to working with them on finding a more permanent solution in 
future legislation.
  Mr. Chair, I urge all of my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on this 
amendment.
  Mr. Chair, I yield as much time as he may consume to the gentleman 
from Alabama (Mr. Aderholt).
  Mr. ADERHOLT. Mr. Chair, I rise in support of this amendment. I 
agree, it appears that the Grain Inspection, Packers & Stockyards 
Administration, known as GIPSA, is not currently implementing a 
provision from the 2015 Grain Standards Act Reauthorization.
  Despite the efforts of my colleagues to try and work with the USDA to 
correct this interpretation, the agency continues down a path of 
unravelling a longstanding agreement that has allowed a designated 
official grain inspector to carry out inspections in another geographic 
area.
  I hope this amendment sends a clear message to the Department that 
they are not following congressional intent, and they should reverse 
course.
  Mr. Chair, I thank the gentleman for his continuous work on this 
issue, and I urge my colleagues to support this amendment.
  Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Chairman, I would like to thank 
Chairman Aderholt for his support, and I yield back the balance of my 
time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Illinois (Mr. Rodney Davis).
  The amendment was agreed to.


              Amendment No. 15 Offered by Mr. King of Iowa

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 15 
printed in part B of House Report 115-295.
  Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk made 
in order by the rule.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:
       At the end of division B (before the short title), insert 
     the following
       Sec. __.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to implement, administer, or enforce the prevailing 
     wage requirements in subchapter IV of chapter 31 of title 40, 
     United States Code (commonly referred to as the Davis-Bacon 
     Act).

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 500, the gentleman 
from Iowa (Mr. King) and a Member opposed each will control 5 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Iowa.
  Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chair, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  This is the amendment that doesn't allow Federal funding to support 
any project that enforces Davis-Bacon rules.
  Davis-Bacon rules have--actually, it is the last remaining Jim Crow 
law left on the books in America. It was established by a couple of 
Republicans in New York back in about 1932 or 1933, when they realized 
that of the few construction projects that were going on during the 
Great Depression, there was an Alabama contractor that underbid the 
local unions in New York to build a Federal building up in New York.
  That contractor who came out of Alabama brought his labor out of 
Alabama, African Americans out of Alabama. So they got together and 
decided, let's pass a law to have a little trade protectionism between 
Alabama and New York. We are going to control who is in the union, and 
we will control the wages, and we will control the benefits.
  I have been in the construction business, as of last Monday, for 42 
years. We have paid Davis-Bacon wage scales most of those years, if not 
all of those years, and King Construction understands what this does.
  First, it inflates wages, and the inflation of wages is dictated by a 
little board and committee that is supposed to be evaluating what is 
described as prevailing wage. But it is not prevailing wage, it is 
union scale, and it is a BOGSAT is what it is. BOGSAT, meaning a bunch 
of guys sitting around a table deciding that they are having trouble 
competing with the rest of the private sector, so they want to raise 
the wages of their construction workers so that they can get the pick 
of the cream of the crop of the construction workers to go to work for 
them rather than their competitor or another industry.
  That is how this has gone on for all of these years in the private 
sector, the

[[Page H7040]]

Federal Government deciding what wages and what benefits should be 
paid. And now we are seeing benefits that are being paid in the fringe 
benefit category to people who have a health insurance program that is 
funded by the taxpayers, premiums funded by the taxpayers under 
ObamaCare.
  So now, Davis-Bacon is even worse. It pays wages and it pays benefits 
that are designed to pay for their health insurance benefits, and they 
are doubling down on that and on the ObamaCare subsidy of their 
premiums. And so these wages no longer reflect prevailing wage. They 
haven't for a long time. They have long, and maybe always, been union 
scale. The union sits at the table with a few contractors in the 
BOGSAT, and they make the deal.
  And I have a private contractor, a merit shop contractor, who has 
worked with this for 42 years. I have seen the inefficiencies it has 
created within our company, and competing companies as well.
  And, yes, we like it when we can pay our labor the highest rates 
known to man. It makes our employees happy. And if I can look at our 
competition and we can sit down and say, you know what, we would like 
to give each of our employees a $5 an hour raise or a $10 an hour 
raise, and let's make sure that any other industry can't compete with 
the wages we are paying, because, after all, it doesn't really come out 
of our pocket as contractors. It comes out of the pockets of the 
taxpayers, borrowed from the Chinese.
  That is what is going on, and the wages increase is a 20 percent 
increase on balance. So, for example, if you want to build five 
bridges, repeal Davis-Bacon. If you want to build four bridges, stick 
with the imposed Federal union scale, the legacy of Jim Crow. If you 
want to build--let's just say a USDA building, the same formula 
applies. You can build five buildings; you can build four. You can 
build four stories, or you can build five, but we need to have 
competition in this U.S. economy.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge adoption of my amendment, and I reserve the 
balance of my time.
  Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I claim the time in opposition 
to the amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Georgia is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Chair, what the Davis-Bacon Act does is 
protect the government, as well as the workers, in carrying out the 
policy of paying decent wages on government contracts.
  The Davis-Bacon Act requires that workers on federally funded 
construction projects be paid no less than the wages paid in the 
community for similar work.
  It requires that every contract for construction of which the Federal 
Government is a party in excess of $2,000 contains a provision defining 
the minimum wages paid to various classes of labors and mechanics.
  The House has taken numerous votes on this issue, and on every vote, 
this body has voted to maintain Davis-Bacon requirements. In fact, most 
recently, during consideration of the FY18 security omnibus, the House 
firmly rejected a similar amendment 249-178. I hope that we will defeat 
the amendment before us today and move on to more substantive matters.
  I would also note that it is somewhat ironic that this amendment is 
being offered on the agriculture appropriations bill because the Davis-
Bacon Act specifically protects rural community workforces. It requires 
that prevailing wage determinations for rural counties be based solely 
on local workforce costs. Wage data from urban areas must be excluded.
  This requirement, I would note, came into force during the Presidency 
of Ronald Reagan. I urge all Members to vote ``no.'' I urge my 
colleagues to oppose this amendment.
  Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chair, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
Alabama (Mr. Aderholt), the chairman of the subcommittee.
  Mr. ADERHOLT. Mr. Chair, I rise to support the gentleman's amendment. 
Each year, the Federal Government requires Davis-Bacon provisions on 
all sorts of constructions--as has already been mentioned, roads, 
bridges, dams, buildings, and the taxpayers pay more. You do the math. 
According to a recent study, Davis-Bacon inflates costs by 22 percent 
for construction costs. These added expenses come at a time when our 
Nation is nearly broke.

  Therefore, I think it is time to put the taxpayers first, and I 
encourage my fellow Members to support this amendment.
  Mr. KING of Iowa. Reclaiming my time, Mr. Chairman, and expending the 
balance of it, I would point out that some of these wages that we are 
looking at here, here are laborers in Indiana, a total of $34.63 an 
hour. Here is an asbestos worker, $46.05 an hour.
  There are more here in the records, and I don't think that these are 
the kind of numbers that the gentleman is talking about. And I 
constantly hear the script read to us from the other side but never a 
response.
  Mr. Chair, I urge its adoption, and I yield back the balance of my 
time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Iowa (Mr. King).
  The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the ayes 
appeared to have it.
  Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I demand a recorded vote.
  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further 
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Iowa will be 
postponed.


               Amendment No. 16 Offered by Mrs. Hartzler

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 16 
printed in part B of House Report 115-295.
  Mrs. HARTZLER. Mr. Speaker, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       At the end of division B (before the short title), insert 
     the following:
       Sec. __.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to carry out subsection (p) of section 12 of the 
     Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 
     1760).

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 500, the gentlewoman 
from Missouri (Mrs. Hartzler) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Missouri.

                              {time}  1915

  Mrs. HARTZLER. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Chairman, I rise today to offer an amendment to return local 
control to the National School Lunch Program. For far too long, 
Washington has imposed burdensome and unnecessary mandates on our local 
schools. These misguided regulations have created a bureaucratic 
nightmare and mountains of paperwork for local school lunch 
administrators who truly want to spend their time focused on providing 
healthy meals for our children.
  My amendment is simple. It stops a federally mandated formula called 
the Paid Lunch Equity program that requires all schools to raise their 
school lunch prices to an arbitrary level set here in Washington. This 
amendment does not address the actual nutritional content of lunches, 
although I believe that is a policy area that should be addressed. This 
amendment only stops regulations setting local school lunch prices.
  Local officials know their communities best, and they should 
ultimately be responsible for setting school lunch prices in their 
cafeterias. Many schools are forced to raise their school lunch prices 
each year just to meet the Federal mandate. This pushes families 
struggling to make ends meet off the school lunch program and leads to 
more hungry students and higher costs for hardworking families.
  It is time to get Washington out of the local school lunch pricing 
business and return more control to our local schools. I ask my 
colleagues to join me today in supporting this commonsense amendment to 
return more control to local schools. Again, I ask my colleagues' 
support.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield such time as he may consume to the gentleman 
from Alabama (Mr. Aderholt).
  Mr. ADERHOLT. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of this amendment. I 
believe that schools should have more

[[Page H7041]]

local control in operating their meal programs, including the 
establishment of the price a family must pay for the meal. School meal 
prices differ from one community to the next, and they take into 
account local food and local labor costs and what families are willing 
and able to pay. I think it is always best to let the local schools 
make those decisions.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to support the gentlewoman's 
amendment.
  Mrs. HARTZLER. Mr. Chairman, I appreciate the chairman's support.
  In closing, I would urge all my colleagues to support this 
commonsense measure to restore local control of our school lunch 
pricing. This exact language was passed in the House version of the 
Child Nutrition Reauthorization Act last year, but that bill has not 
passed, and we need to address this right now.
  Mr. Chairman, I encourage my colleagues to support this amendment, 
and I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentlewoman from Missouri (Mrs. Hartzler).
  The amendment was agreed to.


           Amendment No. 17 Offered by Mr. Carter of Georgia

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 17 
printed in part B of House Report 115-295.
  Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

     *ERR08*  At the end of division B (before the short title), 
     insert the following:
       Sec. __.  None of the funds made available by this division 
     shall be used by the Food and Drug Administration to 
     finalize, implement or enforce the draft standard memorandum 
     of understanding made available for public comment on 
     February 19, 2015, entitled ``Draft Memorandum of 
     Understanding Addressing Certain Distributions of Compounded 
     Human Drug Products Between the State of [insert State] and 
     the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 500, the gentleman 
from Georgia (Mr. Carter) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Georgia.
  Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support of my 
amendment to H.R. 3354, the fiscal year '18 appropriations bill.
  My amendment would withhold funding from the Food and Drug 
Administration to implement a memorandum of understanding that 
redefines key terms in the healthcare industry: distribute and 
dispense.
  Distributing and dispensing in the healthcare field are commonly 
understood to be unique and distinct activities. Distributing is 
understood to mean the sale or transfer of a drug without a 
prescription, like between a wholesaler and a manufacturer. Dispensing 
is commonly understood to mean a medicine going specifically toward a 
patient.
  The FDA's attempt to redefine these key terms would be especially 
detrimental to compounding pharmacies. Compounding pharmacies are 
desperately needed to combine or mix medicines to meet the unique needs 
of particular patients.
  In the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the FDA is given limited 
regulatory authority over how much a compounding pharmacy is allowed to 
ship across State lines, and more specifically, over how much a 
pharmacy can distribute across State lines. But since the FDA is now 
attempting to redefine the word ``dispense,'' the agency is attempting 
to gain more control over these pharmacies and is now limiting the 
amount of medicine that can go directly toward patients.
  With the FDA redefining the word ``dispensing,'' the agency is now 
also limiting how much a State can dispense across State lines, 
creating an unnecessary patient access problem, especially for patients 
served by pharmacies near State lines.
  This amendment is necessary to convey to the FDA that they do not 
have the authority to go against the intent of Congress and redefine 
key terms in agency documents that are directly against what Congress 
laid out in the statute and the commonly understood meaning of the 
industry itself.
  The amendment will also enforce the directives in Congress' last two 
appropriations reports that have been ignored by the FDA.
  Mr. Chairman, I want to repeat that. The amendment will also enforce 
the directives in Congress' last two appropriations reports that have 
been ignored by the FDA, as well as language in the new FY18 
Appropriations subcommittee report.
  As the only pharmacist in Congress, I have seen firsthand how 
important access to medications are for the people who need them. I 
have also seen how important compounded medications are for the 
individuals who rely on uniquely tailored medicines. It would be a 
tragedy for the FDA to limit these patients' access to medications 
because they redefined a term for which they would like to have more 
control.
  I urge all of my colleagues to support this amendment that is crucial 
for patient access to important medications and stop the FDA from 
overreaching and going against the intent of Congress.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to this amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman from Connecticut is recognized for 
5 minutes.
  Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Chairman, I oppose this amendment because it undermines the Drug 
Quality and Security Act, which we passed here in 2013 to protect 
patients from contaminated compounded medications, which are drugs that 
are tailored to the specific needs of an individual patient.
  By the way, there is bipartisan opposition to the Carter amendment: 
myself, Congressman Fred Upton, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell, and 
Congressman Mike Bishop. This is bipartisan opposition.
  Let me be clear. The intent of the law was not to go after local 
compounding pharmacies but, rather, the larger compounding pharmacies 
who act as big drug companies. Traditional pharmaceutical companies 
that make vast quantities of drugs are held to robust safety standards. 
If these large compounding pharmacies intend to manufacture large 
quantities of drugs like a traditional pharmaceutical company and ship 
them across State lines, then they should be held to a similar safety 
standard.
  This amendment would change the law and put patients at risk. Some 
people can potentially die. This is not hyperbole, given that a 
meningitis outbreak in 2012 was caused by unsafe compounded drugs. That 
was less than 5 years ago. I am astonished that we would entertain 
further undermining of the law. The meningitis outbreak associated with 
the New England Compound Center in 2012 led to 64 deaths and more than 
750 illnesses across State lines.
  There are inherent risks with compounding medications, and 
particularly with compounded medications shipped across State lines. 
That is why, in fact, we passed the Drug Quality and Security Act. By 
prohibiting the FDA from implementing this law, this amendment exposes 
patients to a potentially life-threatening catastrophe.
  Again, as we saw in 2012, this amendment also takes away incentives 
for pharmacies to register as an outsourcing facility and gives these 
facilities no reason to raise their quality and safety standards and to 
submit to the FDA for inspection. We owe it to the American people to 
not put their health and their safety at risk. Sixty-four people died.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to oppose this amendment, and I 
reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the 
gentleman from Alabama (Mr. Aderholt).
  Mr. ADERHOLT. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of the gentleman's 
amendment, which has gained bipartisan support in our full committee. I 
am very sympathetic to the gentleman's concerns, and I trust his 
judgment an his experience as, currently, the only pharmacist that is 
serving in the House of Representatives.

  This bill language is similar to the language in our House report. 
While the underlying bill did not go as far as limiting funds to be 
spent on the finalization, implementation, or enforcement of the 
proposed memorandum of

[[Page H7042]]

understanding between the FDA and the States, our committee report 
language is conditional in that the FDA should not finalize the 
proposed rule if it fails to distinguish between distribution and 
dispensing a compounded product to a specific patient.
  Dispensing is not defined in the Drug Quality and Security Act, and 
the FDA should not unilaterally take it upon themselves to start 
regulating the practice of pharmacy since this function is regulated by 
the State Boards of Pharmacy under the laws of the State legislatures. 
Therefore, I support the intent of this amendment until FDA clarifies 
its policy, and I recommend the amendment's approval.
  Ms. DeLAURO. How much time do I have remaining, Mr. Chairman?
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman from Connecticut has 2 minutes 
remaining.
  Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from 
Michigan (Mrs. Dingell).
  Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Chairman, while I have great respect for my friend 
and colleague from Georgia, this misguided amendment would undermine 
FDA's work to enforce the critical patient safety protections that were 
passed in the Drug Quality and Security Act in response to a deadly 
fungal meningitis outbreak that killed 22 people in my home State of 
Michigan. Passing this amendment could ultimately lead to another 
crisis like what we saw.
  This amendment would prohibit the FDA from finalizing a draft 
memorandum of understanding that outlines when and in what quantity 
traditional compounding pharmacies can distribute compounded drugs 
across State lines. Hamstringing FDA's ability to ensure that 
interstate shipments are only made from pharmacies in States that are 
exercising oversight over that activity could create a gaping loophole 
and would turn back the clock to the days when bad actors like NECC 
were free to ship tainted products and murder people across the country 
without oversight.
  It is completely unacceptable. We should be standing up for the 
strong patient protections in DQSA rather than turning back the clock.
  Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I yield 30 seconds to the 
gentleman from Arizona (Mr. Gosar).
  Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Chairman, it is frustrating and egregious that this 
amendment is actually necessary, but it is. The FDA has, thus far, 
blatantly ignored congressional direction to respect the statutory 
difference between distributing and dispensing of compound medications.
  As a dentist and healthcare provider for more than 25 years, I can 
tell you from my professional experience how harmful this overreaching 
guidance from the FDA would be to patients. As a dentist, I often use 
specialty compounded medications to deliver the customized care my 
patients deserved. I relied on the expertise of my pharmacist 
colleagues to ensure that medications were available to patients as 
appropriate.
  As a Congressman, I support this amendment to ensure FDA follows 
congressional intent. As a doctor, I support this amendment because it 
means better care for patients.
  Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman from Georgia, and I urge my 
colleagues to support this amendment--and that is doctor's orders.
  Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Chairman, why are we afraid of safety standards? The 
safety concerns with this amendment are also exacerbated by the fact 
that many States do not exercise appropriate oversight over compounding 
pharmacies.
  A recent study revealed that nearly half of all States surveyed do 
not track the number of pharmacies that perform the sterile compounding 
in their State. They make proactive State oversight impossible.
  Do we really want to allow these facilities to go unchecked? That is 
exactly what this amendment allows.
  The FDA is a regulatory agency. It needs the ability to regulate 
large-scale shipment of compounded drugs across State lines, especially 
in certain States that have minimal, if any, safeguards for drugs 
compounded in pharmacies.
  I was concerned that this law was weak to begin with, and this 
amendment would further weaken and threaten the safety of patients. 
Sixty-four people died, 22 of them in Michigan. We should ensure that 
any legislation passed by this body is not weakened. The safety of 
American children and our families and our kids are at stake.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to oppose this amendment. This is 
not a road, a bridge, a helicopter, or anything else. This is people's 
lives.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my 
time.
  Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas. Mr. Chair, the Drug Quality and Security Act 
was passed in 2013 in response to the multistate fungal meningitis 
outbreak that occurred due to contaminated compounded drug products 
from the New England Compounding Center.
  Drugs from a single facility in one state were shipped nationwide, 
over 750 patients were affected, and 64 patients died in 20 states 
across the country.
  DQSA (D-Q-S-A) helps ensure that if compounders are shipping drugs 
nationwide, they are doing so from states that exercise meaningful 
oversight. This is an important patient safety protection in the law.
  This amendment would weaken FDA's ability to implement this important 
patient protection legislation by denying FDA funding to finalize the 
Memorandum of Understanding Congress mandated FDA develop.
  Congress must not forget the tragedy that happened just 5 years ago 
by turning back the clock and remove the protections Congress itself 
put in place to prevent another outbreak.
  I urge my colleagues to oppose the amendment offered by Rep. Carter.

                              {time}  1930

  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Carter).
  The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the ayes 
appeared to have it.
  Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Chairman, I demand a recorded vote.
  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further 
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Georgia will 
be postponed.


              Amendment No. 18 Offered by Mr. King of Iowa

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 18 
printed in part B of House Report 115-295.
  Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

     *ERR08*  At the end of division B (before the short title), 
     insert the following:
       Sec. ___.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used for a new hire who has not been verified through the 
     E-Verify program, except for an employee compensated under a 
     local compensation plan established under section 408 of the 
     Foreign Service Act of 1980.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 500, the gentleman 
from Iowa (Mr. King) and a Member opposed each will control 5 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Iowa.
  Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Chairman, this is an amendment that requires that new hires under 
this appropriations bill are verified under E-Verify before they can go 
to work. It ensures that those funds that are made available in this 
appropriations bill will not be used for new hires unless they use the 
E-verify program as a responsibility that the Federal Government 
requires as a matter of law.
  Current law requires the Federal Government to use E-Verify to 
enhance enforcement of Federal immigration law in all hiring. However, 
it has been brought to my attention that it isn't consistent across the 
different departments. We need to ensure that it is. It is in response 
to those concerns that I offer this amendment to require E-Verify.
  I will just describe E-Verify.
  Conditional to the hire, employers who have a prospective employee 
may go onboard the Federal internet site, which is the E-Verify site, 
and type in the valid information or perhaps the presented information 
of the prospective employee that has been offered a job. Should they 
clear E-Verify, you punch in what I just euphemistically call name, 
rank, and serial number. It is a short piece of data that includes 
birth date, name, and often birthplace. Then that goes into the 
internet site. It comes back to you and lets you

[[Page H7043]]

know that you can legally hire the individual that is identified in 
this data. That is E-Verify.
  Hopefully, in this Congress, the Federal Government will pass and 
make E-Verify mandatory for private sector employers. Hopefully, we 
will do that in this Congress. But the Federal Government needs to, Mr. 
Chairman, address this, and it needs to do so with our own employees. 
That is what the King amendment does. It ensures that E-Verify is used 
by our own employees.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. BISHOP Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to the 
amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is recognized for 5 minutes.
  Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Since President Bush ordered Federal agencies 
to comply with E-Verify back in 2007, this amendment, if it only 
applies to hiring at Federal agencies, would do absolutely nothing. I 
am not aware of any effort by the Trump administration to undo 
President Bush's order, so it is a needless use of the House's time.
  I believe the gentleman's language would also require every one of 
the local county employees or local folks to be E-Verified. Wouldn't 
this add another burden on USDA when it has to implement the new farm 
bill?
  If so, I would like to ask the gentleman what he expects would happen 
in an emergency, such as we experienced from Hurricane Harvey, when 
USDA may need to bring on employees quickly. They would have to wait 
for E-Verify clearance.
  I would also submit that it is not clear whether the language also 
covers every single person who receives any of the funds in this bill 
as a grantee. I think it is unclear and would risk requiring every 
single one of the thousands of grantees to go through E-Verify. Then 
you would impose a truly undue burden on many small farmers, ranchers, 
and businesses that receive grants in this bill. I would strongly 
oppose that.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to oppose this amendment, and I 
yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I yield to the gentleman from Alabama 
(Mr. Aderholt), chairman of the subcommittee.
  Mr. ADERHOLT. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of the gentleman's 
amendment here. I support what the gentleman is doing with this 
amendment. I also appreciate his willingness to make a slight change to 
the amendment in order to maintain support from staff in embassies 
across the world that help USDA staff open markets to U.S. goods.
  With that being said, I would like to urge my colleagues to support 
his amendment.
  Mr. KING of Iowa. I would add for clarification, Mr. Chairman, that 
the provision the gentleman referred to is section 408 of the Foreign 
Service Act of 1980, which exempts those employees in foreign countries 
that surely would not want them uncovered under E-Verify.
  In response to the gentleman's objection, I have tried to fool E-
Verify by punching data into it. The longest delay I could create was 6 
seconds. So as far as undue burden is concerned, a 6-second wait in the 
most extreme circumstances I don't think is extreme at all.
  This is the right thing for the Federal Government to at least 
exercise the laws that we pass and we want to impose upon the rest of 
the country and upon ourselves.
  So it is a clarification amendment, Mr. Chairman. I urge its 
adoption, and I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Iowa (Mr. King).
  The amendment was agreed to.


     Amendments En Bloc No. 2 Offered by Mr. Diaz-Balart of Florida

  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, pursuant to section 3 of House 
Resolution 500, as a designee of Chairman Frelinghuysen, I rise to 
offer en bloc No. 2 as part of the consideration of H.R. 3354. The list 
of the amendments included in the en bloc is at the desk and has been 
agreed to by both sides.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendments en bloc.
  Amendments en bloc No. 2 consisting of amendment Nos. 23, 24, 27, 30, 
31, 34, 35, 40, 41, 42, 43, 45, 47, and 60 printed in part B of House 
Report 115-295, offered by Mr. Diaz-Balart of Florida:


        Amendment No. 23 Offered by Mr. DeSaulnier of California

       Page 1141, line 18, after the first dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $15,000,000)''.
       Page 1141, line 18, after the second dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $400,000)''.
       Page 1141, line 21, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $3,000,000)''.
       Page 1141, line 25, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $4,000,000)''.
       Page 1142, line 4, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $4,600,000)''.
       Page 1142, line 11, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $3,000,000)''.
       Page 1143, line 6, after the first dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $15,000,000)''.


           Amendment No. 24 Offered by Mr. Hanabusa of Hawaii

       Page 1141, line 18, after the first dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $7,000,000)''.
       Page 1141, line 25, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $3,000,000)''.
       Page 1142, line 4, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $4,000,000)''.
       Page 1196, line 22, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $7,000,000)''.


         Amendment No. 27 Offered by Mrs. Torres of California

       Page 1162, line 20, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $12,000,000) (increased by $12,000,000)''.


           Amendment No. 30 Offered by Mrs. Lowey of New York

       On page 1184, line 3, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000)''.


           Amendment No. 31 Offered by Mr. Nolan of Minnesota

       Page 1184, line 24, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $500,000,000) (increased by $500,000,000)''.


         Amendment No. 34 Offered by Mrs. Torres of California

       Page 1190, line 3, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $10,000,000) (increased by $10,000,000)''.


           Amendment No. 35 Offered by Mr. Nolan of Minnesota

       Page 1190, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $659,641,149) (increased by $659,641,149)''.


         Amendment No. 40 Offered by Ms. Velazquez of New York

       Page 1228, line 21, after dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $2,000,000)''.
       Page 1261, line 4, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $2,000,000)''.


           Amendment No. 41 Offered by Ms. Tenney of New York

       Page 1232, line 5, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $10,000,000)''.
       Page 1240, line 2, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $10,000,000)''.
       Page 1240, line 4, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $10,000,000)''.


           Amendment No. 42 Offered by Mr. Nadler of New York

       Page 1239, line 11, after the dollar amount insert 
     ``(increased by $19,000,000)''.
       Page 1261, line 4, after the dollar amount insert 
     ``(reduced by $19,000,000)''.


          Amendment No. 43 Offered by Mr. Knight of California

       Page 1240, line 2, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $100,000,000)''.
       Page 1240, line 4, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $100,000,000)''.
       Page 1261, line 4, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $100,000,000)''.


        Amendment No. 45 Offered by Mr. DeSaulnier of California

       Page 1243, line 2, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $5,000,000)''.
       Page 1243, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $5,000,000)''.
       Page 1255, line 6, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $5,000,000)''.


            Amendment No. 47 Offered by Mr. Soto of Florida

       Page 1249, line 5, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $2,500,000)''.
       Page 1257, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(decreased by $2,500,000)''.


           Amendment No. 60 Offered by Mr. Nolan of Minnesota

       Page 1156, line 10, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $10,000,000)''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 500, the gentleman 
from Florida (Mr. Diaz-Balart) and the gentleman from North Carolina 
(Mr. Price) each will control 10 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Florida.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the 
gentlewoman from California (Mrs. Torres).
  Mrs. TORRES. Mr. Chairman, I rise to offer two amendments in this en 
bloc package to this appropriations bill. These two amendments will 
finally provide the authorized funding levels of $12 million for the 
regional infrastructure accelerator demonstration program, section 1441 
of the FAST Act; and $10 million for the transit-oriented development 
pilot program, section

[[Page H7044]]

1036 of the FAST Act. This funding will finally allow these two 
important programs to move forward, improving infrastructure projects 
and transportation options in my district in the Inland Empire and 
throughout our country.
  I appreciate the chairman's and the ranking member's support.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman 
from California (Mr. Knight).
  Mr. KNIGHT. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support of my amendment 
that would appropriate additional resources to CDBG funds, or the 
Community Development Block Grant program. Back home in California's 
25th District, CDBG funds are awarded to numerous nonprofit 
organizations that do significant and far-reaching work for our 
constituents.
  These resources reach citizens of the city of Santa Clarita through 
programs like Bridge to Home, domestic violence victim support centers, 
home rehabilitation services, and summer youth development programs.
  In the Antelope Valley, CDBG funds address community needs through 
grants for street maintenance in low-income neighborhoods, emergency 
shelter for low-income people, and financing for the construction of 
Palmdale's senior center.
  Mr. Chairman, it goes without saying that my constituents 
dramatically benefit from CDBG funds, and I am sure many of my 
colleagues here can attest to the same. That is why I was alarmed to 
see that the President's budget request completely defunded this 
program. I am thankful to Chairman Diaz-Balart and his staff for 
understanding the importance of this program and supporting it in the 
underlying bill.
  My amendment returns the total program funding to a level that is 
consistent with the FY 2017 enacted level, which will provide the 
funding stability our communities need to ensure these programs can 
continue to operate. I urge my colleagues to support this.
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance 
of my time.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. NADLER. Mr. Chair, last year, Congress passed an updated formula 
for the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS (the HOPWA 
program). The change was necessary to ensure the program better 
reflected how the HIV/AIDS epidemic is changing in this country. 
However, at the current HOPWA funding levels, the new formula leaves 
several jurisdictions, including New York City and Miami, at risk of 
losing funding for this important program.
  In a program as efficient as HOPWA, when grantees lose funding, 
people living with AIDS lose their housing. Research clearly 
demonstrates that housing instability leads to worse health outcomes 
for those living with HIV/AIDS, and these potential cuts could have a 
devastating impact on these patients and their families. The new 
formula will only be effective in addressing the AIDS housing crisis if 
we maintain adequate funding levels.
  My amendment increases funding for HOPWA by $19 million, ensuring 
that, under the new formula, no jurisdiction loses funding in Fiscal 
Year 2018. The amendment is fully offset through the HUD Information 
Technology Fund.
  I thank Chairman Diaz-Balart and Ranking Member Price for their long-
standing support of HOPWA and for accepting this important amendment to 
protect people living with AIDS and their families. I look forward to 
continuing our work on HOPWA in the future. I also speak for all New 
Yorkers in lending our support to Chairman Diaz-Balart and his district 
in the face of Hurricane Irma, just as they stood with us during 
Superstorm Sandy.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendments en bloc offered 
by the gentleman from Florida (Mr. Diaz-Balart).
  The en bloc amendments were agreed to.


                Amendment No. 21 Offered by Mr. Lipinski

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 21 
printed in part B of House Report 115-295.
  Mr. LIPINSKI. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:
       Page 1141, line 18, after the first dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $9,000,000)''.
       Page 1180, line 6, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $9,000,000)''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 500, the gentleman 
from Illinois (Mr. Lipinski) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Illinois.
  Mr. LIPINSKI. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of this amendment that 
will provide the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration with $9 
million in order to facilitate their critical work on self-driving 
cars.
  Earlier today, the House passed the SELF DRIVE Act, which expanded 
NHTSA's authorities in this area. This amendment I am offering supplies 
the initial financial resources needed to carry out the directives of 
that bill. This includes validating the safety of self-driving cars; 
defining new testing protocols as the technology advances; and 
partnering with industry, along with State and local governments, to 
conduct oversight of these new vehicles.
  NHTSA will play a key role in fostering adoption of this technology 
that promises so much: expanded mobility, much safer roads, decreased 
energy usage and emissions, and less congestion.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Will the gentleman yield?
  Mr. LIPINSKI. I yield to the gentleman from Florida.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. If the gentleman would be all right with that, I 
would be willing to agree to his amendment. As long as we can move the 
process quickly, I would agree to the amendment.
  Mr. LIPINSKI. I thank the chairman for supporting it.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Illinois (Mr. Lipinski).
  The amendment was agreed to.


                Amendment No. 22 Offered by Mr. Mitchell

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 22 
printed in part B of House Report 115-295.
  Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

     *ERR08*  Page 1141, line 18, after the first dollar amount, 
     insert ``(reduced by $10,889,900)''.
       Page 1141, line 18, after the second dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $275,800)''.
       Page 1141, line 20, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $104,000)''.
       Page 1141, line 21, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $2,077,200)''.
       Page 1141, line 23, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $1,003,300)''.
       Page 1141, line 25, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $1,401,900)''.
       Page 1142, line 2, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $254,600)''.
       Page 1142, line 4, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $2,425,500)''.
       Page 1142, line 6, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $214,200)''.
       Page 1142, line 7, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $176,000)''.
       Page 1142, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $1,108,900)''.
       Page 1142, line 11, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $1,848,500)''.
       Page 1189, line 8, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $11,079,469)''.
       Page 1211, line 12, after the first dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $1,470,800)''.
       Page 1211, line 19, after the first dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $51,830,300)''.
       Page 1211, line 19, after the second dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $1,076,200)''.
       Page 1211, line 21, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $5,034,000)''.
       Page 1211, line 23, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $9,200,600)''.
       Page 1211, line 24, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $20,587,300)''.
       Page 1211, line 25, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $3,824,500)''.
       Page 1212, line 2, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $4,958,800)''.
       Page 1212, line 3, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $1,906,500)''.
       Page 1212, line 4, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $357,000)''.
       Page 1212, line 6, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $497,500)''.
       Page 1212, line 8, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $4,387,900)''.
       Page 1213, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $21,663,300)''.
       Page 1213, line 12, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $10,755,400)''.
       Page 1213, line 15, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $39,200,000)''.
       Page 1213, line 18, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $2,406,500)''.
       Page 1213, line 21, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $6,980,800)''.
       Page 1213, line 25, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $760,000)''.
       Page 1304, line 22, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $157,036,469)''.


[[Page H7045]]


  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 500, the gentleman 
from Michigan (Mr. Mitchell) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Michigan.

                              {time}  1945

  Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Our Nation faces a dire fiscal situation. We have now reached our 
debt ceiling once again. The path we are on is not sustainable. It 
jeopardizes our future, our children's future, and our national 
security. We must get our fiscal house in order and take this problem 
seriously.
  Paying lip service to the problem will not solve it. We must be 
responsible now before it is far too late. The reality is that we can 
make cuts to our government without impacting essential programs. In 
fact, the right cuts will grow our economy by stopping overeager 
bureaucrats who often seem dedicated to Federal mandates and massive 
regulations.
  We, in Congress, should be focused on growing and protecting Main 
Street, not an already bloated Federal Government. The amendment I 
propose today makes the cuts to the bureaucracy, the administrative 
costs within the Department of Transportation, Housing and Urban 
Development, and Related Agencies.
  The cuts focus on administrative expenses and salaries within these 
two departments. This modest 10 percent administrative cut saves 
taxpayers $222 million and, admittedly, is but a small step.
  I come from the world of private business, so I understand that 
fiscal responsibility requires ongoing and consistent small steps. My 
amendment, when combined with other similar amendments, will yield big 
savings for taxpayers and will do so without cutting projects or 
essential programs.
  I urge my colleagues to seriously consider my amendment as we work to 
secure our fiscal future.
  Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, I claim the time in opposition.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Florida is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chair, let me thank the gentleman for bringing 
up this amendment. He has worked awfully hard, and I am a huge admirer 
of his.
  Here is the problem: in the committee, we have actually gone line by 
line to identify cuts in salaries and expenses at HUD and DOT, and as a 
result, most administrative accounts are at or below the 2017 levels. 
By the way, that is one of the ways that we achieved $1.1 billion in 
savings, again, below the 2017 budget.
  When you do it across the board, it could affect safety programs, it 
could actually have unintended consequences. So while I am grateful for 
the chairman's hard work, I would urge a ``no'' vote at this time, and 
I look forward to continuing to work with the gentleman to make sure 
that his concerns are addressed in this bill and in future bills.
  Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Chairman, I respect the work of the committee, 
certainly the chairman.
  As I said earlier, I come from the private sector where, frankly, a 
10 percent cut in administration is not uncommon. I worked at Chrysler 
Corporation back in the original loan guarantee days where Lee Iacocca 
said: ``If you can't cut 10 percent of your budget, I will just find a 
new manager.''
  We have made cuts. We made more substantial cuts than many other 
agencies. As noted earlier, we made significant cuts in, for example, 
the EPA, back to levels of 2005, 2006. I believe we can make these cuts 
and still maintain the safety and security of this Nation, maintain 
operations and programs, and while we may disagree, I will certainly 
work with the chairman and the committee to continue to work on getting 
our fiscal house in order.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, I yield as much time as he may consume 
to the gentleman from North Carolina (Mr. Price).
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Chairman, I rise to join the 
chairman in opposition.
  The amendment would decimate the salaries and expense accounts at the 
Department of Transportation, Department of Housing and Urban 
Development, and related agencies. There are broad consequences for 
this, but I want to focus on one consequence: cybersecurity.
  The inspectors general of both departments have indicated that both 
agencies have a lot of work to do in addressing cyber threats. The CIOs 
at DOT and HUD have been working to address these challenges. They have 
had issues in hiring and staffing cybersecurity professionals in what 
is a very competitive labor market.
  The bill would make these challenges even more difficult by reducing 
the salaries and expenses of the CIO offices by 10 percent.
  We owe it to our constituents to have a safe and secure 
transportation system and to safeguard personally identifiable 
information. This amendment would make it harder for these departments 
to do this, and I urge its defeat.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Michigan (Mr. Mitchell).
  The amendment was rejected.


               Amendment No. 25 Offered by Mr. McClintock

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 25 
printed in part B of House Report 115-295.
  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 1147, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $150,000,000)''.
       Page 1304, line 22, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $150,000,000)''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 500, the gentleman 
from California (Mr. McClintock) and a Member opposed each will control 
5 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California.
  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Chairman, this amendment eliminates the $150 
million of discretionary spending wasted on one of the least essential 
programs in the entire United States Government, the so-called 
Essential Air Service. That is the program that subsidizes empty and 
near-empty planes to fly from small airports to regional hubs that are 
usually just a few hours away or less by car.
  This was supposed to be a temporary program to allow local 
communities and airports to readjust to airline deregulation back in 
1978.
  Last year, the Essential Air Service cost a total of nearly $300 
million between direct taxpayer subsidies and fees to fly near-empty 
planes to underused airports. $150 million of that is in our control, 
and this amendment zeros it out and puts it toward deficit reduction.
  We are often told that we now have a $200 per person cap on the 
subsidies, as if that wasn't bad enough, but that is only for flights 
under 210 miles. It continues unlimited subsidies over that distance, 
and actual subsidies per passenger can be over $1,000 per seat.
  Year after year we are promised reform, and year after year the cost 
goes up. By the way, Essential Air Service flights are flown out of 
Merced and Visalia airports that serve my district in the Sierra 
Nevada. A tiny number of people actually use them, and the alternative 
is hardly catastrophic. Visalia and Merced are less than an hour's 
drive from Fresno air terminal. But I can assure you that every person 
in my district who hears about this waste of their money is outraged by 
it.
  Rural life has great advantages and great disadvantages, and it is 
not the job of taxpayers who choose to live elsewhere to level out the 
differences.
  Apologists for this wasteful spending tell us it is an important 
economic driver for these small airports, and I am sure that is so. 
Whenever you give away money, the folks you are giving it to are always 
better off, but the folks you are taking it from are always worse off 
to exactly the same extent. Indeed, it is economic drivers like this 
that have Europe's economy right off a cliff.
  Four years ago, one Member rushed to the microphone to suggest this 
was essential for emergency medical evacuations. Well, it has nothing 
to do with

[[Page H7046]]

that. This program subsidizes regular scheduled commercial service that 
practically nobody uses. If it actually had a passenger base, we 
wouldn't need, in effect, to hand out wads of $100 bills to the few 
passengers who use it, would we?
  An airline that so recklessly used its funds would quickly bankrupt 
itself. The same principle holds true for governments.
  The Washington Post is not known as a bastion of fiscal conservatism, 
but I cannot improve upon an editorial a few years ago when it said: 
``Ideally, EAS would be zeroed out, and the $200 million we waste on it 
devoted to a truly national purpose: perhaps deficit reduction, 
military readiness, or the social safety net. Alas, if Congress and the 
White House were capable of making such choices, we probably never 
would have had sequestration in the first place.''
  There are many tough calls in setting fiscal priorities, but this 
isn't one of them. If the House of Representatives--where all 
appropriations begin, with a Republican majority pledged to stop 
wasting money--can't even agree to cut this useless program off from 
the trough, how does it expect to be taken seriously on the much 
tougher choices that lie ahead?
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, I claim the time in opposition.
  The Acting CHAIR (Mr. Mitchell). The gentleman from Florida is 
recognized for 5 minutes.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to the 
gentleman's amendment. This Essential Air Service program ensures that 
small and rural communities have access to the national air 
transportation system. The program is vital to small businesses and 
farming communities and rural communities and rural entrepreneurs.
  So the amendment would cut off air service to many rural communities 
and would put economies of many of our small towns potentially at risk. 
I thank the gentleman for his passion, but I would urge a ``no'' vote.
  Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Chairman, the gentleman is correct. It would cut 
off air service to communities that are usually just an hour or so 
drive from a major regional airport where they can obtain air service. 
This is the kindest cut of all. Eliminating a temporary program 
established 39 years ago has become a poster child for wasteful Federal 
spending.
  Now, our national debt has nearly doubled in 8 years. American 
taxpayers will pay $269 billion this year just in interest costs on 
that debt. If you are an average family paying average taxes, it means 
that $2,200 of your taxes this year will accomplish nothing more than 
renting the money we have already spent.
  Continuing to pay for this obsolete and wasteful program with money 
we don't have is simply obscene. It makes a mockery of any claim that 
we cut spending to the bone, and I would ask for adoption of the 
amendment.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from California (Mr. McClintock).
  The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the noes 
appeared to have it.
  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Chairman, I demand a recorded vote.
  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further 
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from California 
will be postponed.


                 Amendment No. 26 Offered by Mr. Kildee

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 26 
printed in part B of House Report 115-295.
  Mr. KILDEE. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 1150, line 23, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $100,000,000)''.
       Page 1151, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $100,000,000)''.
       Page 1242, line 5, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $100,000,000)''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 500, the gentleman 
from Michigan (Mr. Kildee) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Michigan.
  Mr. KILDEE. Mr. Chairman, my amendment is quite simple. It would add 
$100 million to the HOME Investment Partnerships Program, which is a 
really important initiative that supports homeownership, supports 
housing opportunities for people living in America's communities. It 
literally puts a roof over the head of many Americans. Thirty-five 
percent of low-income renters right now are unable to find affordable 
housing. This is not a time to cut this essential program.
  Since 2004, Congress has cut this program in half, cutting over $1 
billion. We really need to focus more of our attention in how we create 
more stable communities, more stable neighborhoods, and housing is 
essential to that, and the HOME program is essential to housing.
  Too many communities, too many cities and towns are struggling to 
hold themselves together. This is one really tangible way that the 
Federal Government can help those communities.
  I have spoken to the chairman of the subcommittee, Mr. Diaz-Balart, 
and I know he supports the HOME program. He has agreed to work with me 
to ensure that the final bill has robust funding for the HOME program, 
so I greatly appreciate the opportunity to work with him.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield to Mr. Diaz-Balart for any remarks that he 
might have.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, I want to thank the gentleman for 
bringing this up. This is something that I have got to give a lot of 
credit to the ranking member as well. This is a program that we are 
very familiar with. I look forward to working with the Member from 
Michigan on a program that I think a lot of us support, clearly I 
support, and the ranking member supports. I want to thank him for 
bringing it up.
  Mr. KILDEE. Mr. Chairman, I will close. I know the chairman and the 
ranking member support this. I urge all of my colleagues, when this 
eventually comes back before us, to support robust funding.
  Mr. Chairman, I will withdraw my amendment and count on the fact that 
we will work together to make sure that this program is fully 
supported.
  Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time and withdraw my 
amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The amendment is withdrawn.


                Amendment No. 28 Offered by Mr. Woodall

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 28 
printed in part B of House Report 115-295.
  Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 1163, beginning line 23, strike ``such'' and all that 
     follows through ``That'' on line 8 of page 1164.
       Page 1164, beginning line 16, strike the colon and all that 
     follows before the period at the end of line 24.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 500, the gentleman 
from Georgia (Mr. Woodall) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Georgia.
  Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Chairman, this is an amendment to provide the 
maximum flexibility to States that are being asked, under this bill, to 
rescind $800 million in an obligated budget authority.
  As you know, Mr. Chairman, we put money in a lot of different pots 
and send it out to a lot of different places to do a whole lot of good 
for a whole lot of people, but when you have a bill that is going to 
ask the States to pull back some of that money, historically, we have 
limited the ability of States to make those decisions.

                              {time}  2000

  With all due respect to anyone's hometown team, I will tell you no 
one knows more about how to take care of the safety of the citizens of 
Georgia than do the citizens of Georgia and our local elected 
officials.
  What this amendment would do is allow our local Departments of 
Transportation, our State Department of

[[Page H7047]]

Transportation, maximum flexibility in meeting this Federal mandate to 
rescind those $800 million worth of unobligated funds.
  I ask my colleagues for their support in providing that maximum 
flexibility, and I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Chairman, I claim the time in 
opposition to the amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is recognized for 5 minutes.
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Chairman, I commend the gentleman 
for offering the amendment. I am compelled to oppose it, in part, 
because our authorizers have expressed reservations, at least on our 
side, about this amendment.
  No one disagrees with giving the States flexibility, but we and the 
authorizers, in particular, have some questions about how the 
gentleman's amendment would go about providing that flexibility.
  The set-asides in the bill reflect the agreement in the FAST Act. 
Therefore, before legislating on this, we need to be clear about how 
this would work and whether it does, in fact, violate the premises of 
the FAST Act and other questions raised by our colleagues.
  I suggest a ``no'' vote. I also suggest that we could return to this 
and deal with it later once some of these questions might be cleared 
up.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  I am one of those authorizers. I sit on the Transportation Committee, 
so I will make myself available to anyone who has questions about the 
intent of the Transportation Committee on that measure.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield such time as he may consume to the gentleman 
from Florida (Mr. Diaz-Balart).
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman for bringing 
this up. This is something he has done a lot of work on and he knows 
this issue very, very well. I think this is a well-done amendment. I 
welcome the amendment, and I wholeheartedly support it.
  Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Chairman, I thank my friend for those comments.
  Again, I want to provide maximum flexibility to what is a very 
difficult job, and that is reclaiming those obligated funds from each 
one of our districts back home. The question is: Will we trust our 
local officials to make the best decisions or will we structure how 
those decisions are made here? I trust our local engineers, our local 
builders, and our local folks in charge of our public safety.
  Mr. Chairman, I encourage my colleagues to support this amendment, 
and I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Woodall).
  The amendment was agreed to.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Chair understands that amendment No. 29 will 
not be offered.


                  Amendment No. 32 Offered by Mr. Budd

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 32 
printed in part B of House Report 115-295.
  Mr. BUDD. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

        Page 1184, line 24, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $474,054,999)''.
       Page 1190, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $1)''.
       Page 1190, line 20, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $400,000,000)''.
       Page 1190, line 25, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $400,000,000)''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 500, the gentleman 
from North Carolina (Mr. Budd) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from North Carolina.
  Mr. BUDD. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Chairman, I rise today to oppose a $900 million earmark to the 
Gateway Project, an upgrade of an Amtrak rail bridge and tunnel between 
Newark and New York City. This earmark is a downpayment. The project is 
supposed to be $29.5 billion.
  My amendment would do two things: It would cut spending by $474 
million, and it would take $400 million and add it to national transit 
funding.
  Mr. Chairman, New Jersey canceled a project doing the same thing in 
2010. That was when it cost $8.7 billion. Now the Federal version costs 
$13 billion. This is what the Governor's office said, defending the 
decision, in reference to comments made by Senator Frank Lautenberg:
  `` . . . perhaps he can explain why he is insisting New Jersey tax 
and toll payers fund 70 percent of a project, while billions in Federal 
funding pour out of Washington for high-speed rail lines in other 
States like Florida, which will pay only 20 percent of project costs.''
  Here we are, Mr. Chairman. Billions are about to pour out of 
Washington. If this earmark stands, then we send a clear message to the 
States: Shortchange your infrastructure, and Washington will bail you 
out.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge support, and I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong opposition to the 
amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Florida is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, let's first get one thing straight: 
This is a cut in infrastructure investment, authorized by the FAST Act, 
which was passed by this body by a vote of 359-65. It is an authorized 
program in the FAST Act. This is not, by any stretch of the 
imagination, an earmark.
  This amendment proposes a cut of $474 million from the Federal 
Railroad Administration State of Good Repair program. This program was 
created to address the state of good repair backlog in our intercity 
rail transportation system. That backlog, by itself, is estimated to be 
at a whopping $38 billion.
  This program replaces or, frankly, rehabilitates any publicly owned 
or Amtrak-owned infrastructure and will ensure intercity rail service 
is safe, reliable, and ready to support economic and population growth. 
It is not, by any stretch of the imagination, an earmark. It is an 
authorized program.
  Now, let me address the funding shift. Again, I respect the 
gentleman, but I respectfully oppose what the gentleman is proposing.
  We have already allocated significant resources to the new search 
program, which I support, consistent, again, with the President's 
request. We have chosen to allocate funding for other projects, 
consistent with the wills of Congress of this House with the FAST Act 
that benefit both commuter and passenger rail and make significant 
returns on investment for our country, particularly, by the way, for 
our economy.
  So we are funding transit infrastructure to get our economy moving, 
literally. And, as a nation, we have to address our critical 
infrastructure assets, which is why this was authorized by Congress in 
the FAST Act--I repeat.
  This amendment would undermine that effort, so I would respectfully 
urge a ``no'' vote on the gentleman's amendment.
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Will the gentleman yield?
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. I yield to the gentleman from North Carolina.
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Chairman, I thank the chairman for 
yielding. I join him in opposing this amendment. It would reduce the 
total amount of spending on new infrastructure projects by $474 
million.
  The main criticism of this bill, as the chairman has said, is that we 
ought to be doing more investment in infrastructure, not less. This 
amendment would make the bill's shortcomings even worse.
  The Federal-State partnership for State of Good Repair program can be 
used for grants along the Northeast Corridor, the Chicago to Detroit 
Corridor, and publicly owned rail infrastructure throughout the Nation. 
These corridors include many of the Nation's passenger rail 
bottlenecks.
  This amendment would take away dedicated funds to improve passenger 
rail service throughout our country. It is a distraction from the 
infrastructure challenges we face. We should be finding ways to invest 
in infrastructure: worthy new projects, expand mobility and 
opportunity. This amendment moves in the opposite direction.

[[Page H7048]]

  Mr. Chairman, I urge its defeat.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. BUDD. Mr. Chairman, a couple of things. I look at this, and this 
still allows funding of existing projects and infrastructure, but it 
also reduces the deficit, too.
  And I want to quote the Eno Center for Transportation here: ``It is 
obvious from the beginning of the timeline that the new Hudson River 
tunnel project was conceived as a way around Governor Christie's 
cancellation of the ARC tunnel project. Instead of having Jersey 
Transit as the sponsor like ARC, the new tunnel would be under the 
aegis of Amtrak.''
  Mr. Chairman, this isn't about Amtrak funding. This is about funding 
for a single project in New Jersey that the State, itself, wouldn't 
fund in 2010. Amtrak funding for the Northeast Corridor account remains 
untouched under my amendment.
  We are talking about Amtrak funding for a single project. As the 
chairman, himself, has said, a significant proportion of the $328 
million in the Northeast Corridor account will go to Amtrak.
  This is 300 times the size of an average earmark, when we had 
earmarks. We have an earmark ban in place right now. There is debate 
over this, but it is not fair with the ban in place that chairmen get 
huge earmarks and the rest of us, essentially, are banned. There should 
be one rule that applies to everyone, and right now the earmark ban is 
what applies.
  One-sixth of the non-aviation DOT money in this bill is going to 
Gateway. In what universe is that reasonable?
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, how much time do I have remaining?
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Florida has 2 minutes remaining.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the 
gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Lance).
  Mr. LANCE. Mr. Chairman, I thank Chairman Diaz-Balart for yielding me 
time.
  Mr. Chairman, this is not an earmark. The Northeast Corridor region 
is an economic powerhouse. It generates $3 trillion in annual economic 
output and is home to 20 percent of the Nation's gross domestic 
product, more than 51 million people, and 4 of the 10 largest 
metropolitan areas in the United States. It is a moneymaker for Amtrak 
and the Federal Government, serving more than 750,000 people every day 
on 2,000 intercity and commuter trains.
  Travel up and down this corridor of passengers and freight is 
critical to the economy of the entire country. If one of these tunnels 
were to fail, the negative economic and transportation implications 
would ripple to other States such as Kentucky, Delaware, Florida, 
Georgia, Indiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New 
Jersey, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, 
North Carolina, Vermont, Virginia, and West Virginia.
  According to the Northeast Corridor Commission, underinvestment in 
the Northeast Corridor already costs the economy $500 million annually, 
$30 million more than the savings from the amendment.
  The Gateway Project is a national priority. I urge a ``no'' vote on 
this amendment.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, as the designee of Chairman 
Frelinghuysen, pursuant to section 3 of House Resolution 500, I move to 
strike the last word for the purpose of debate.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Florida is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, I yield to the gentleman from New York 
(Mr. Nadler).
  Mr. NADLER. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to this amendment, 
which would eliminate funding for the Gateway Project.
  The Gateway Project, which includes work on the Portal Bridge and 
construction of a new rail tunnel under the Hudson River, is widely 
recognized as one of the highest priority transportation projects in 
the country.
  We should have built new tunnels and expanded capacity on the 
Northeast Corridor long ago, but the damage to the existing tunnels 
caused by Superstorm Sandy has brought a new urgency to the situation. 
If those tunnels were to go down, as they certainly will in the next 10 
years without the Gateway Project, there would be no rail service 
between New York and New Jersey, massively disrupting transportation 
all along the Northeast Corridor from Washington to Boston. Twenty 
percent of the economy of the country would be disrupted.
  This amendment cuts funding for Gateway and eliminates almost $500 
million from the bill completely, sending it to the spending reduction 
account. It does not direct that funding to other infrastructure 
projects. It does not restore TIGER funding. It reduces national 
infrastructure spending when we should be increasing it.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to reject this extremely 
shortsighted and punitive measure.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, I yield to the gentleman from New York 
(Mr. King).
  Mr. KING of New York. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman for 
yielding.
  Mr. Chairman, the Gateway program will create the new infrastructure 
essential to greater resiliency against future potential storms and 
disasters, while enabling repairs to damage and achieve capacity and 
reliability-related investments for the needs of the Northeast 
Corridor's operators for the next 30 to 50 years.
  Without extensive repairs and rebuilding of the existing tunnel, 
service reliability is likely to continue to deteriorate due to ongoing 
damage from saltwater incursion during Superstorm Sandy, from which we 
are still suffering 5 years later, eventually forcing a shutdown of one 
or both tubes of the Hudson River Tunnel.
  Mr. Lance pointed out and Mr. Nadler pointed out the Northeast 
Corridor is not just the Northeast. It services the entire Nation. It 
serves a massive economic purpose.
  It is essential we stand behind this. This is absolutely essential 
infrastructure spending. I support Chairman Frelinghuysen, and I 
support the ranking member and the chairman of the subcommittee for 
their work. Again, it is truly a bipartisan effort and something that 
is absolutely essential.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge defeat of the amendment.

                              {time}  2015

  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chair, I yield to the gentleman from Indiana 
(Mr. Visclosky), the ranking member of the Defense Subcommittee.
  Mr. VISCLOSKY. Mr. Chair, I appreciate the chairman yielding. I rise 
in strong opposition to the gentleman's amendment and would associate 
myself with the chairman's remarks.
  The gentleman indicated that there is deficit reduction involved in 
his amendment. I would emphasize to all of my colleagues in this 
Chamber that this account for fiscal year 2018 is already reduced by 
hundreds of millions of dollars. How much more are you going to cut?
  I happen to live in Gary, Indiana. I don't live in New Jersey. I 
don't live in New York. What I appreciate is that the chairman, the 
ranking member, the members of the subcommittee put together a national 
investment bill. This is an investment in our Nation, one of the 
largest Metropolitan regions and economic engine. If we fail to make 
these types of investments, we are making a fundamental mistake, 
particularly given the fact that during the last campaign, we heard a 
lot about investing in infrastructure, and the gentleman is here 
tonight wanting to further reduce that particular investment.
  This is an important account to every American citizen. I support the 
committee's position, and I am opposed to the gentleman's amendment.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. PAYNE. Mr. Chair, as the designee of Ranking Member Lowey, I move 
to strike the last word.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from New Jersey is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. PAYNE. Mr. Chair, I rise in opposition to the proposed amendment. 
To coin it an earmark is unfortunate. The amendment would strike the 
language passed out of the Appropriations Committee that supports 
transportation projects of national significance. The committee voted 
to appropriate $900

[[Page H7049]]

million to rail programs already authorized by Congress in the FAST 
Act.
  For the last 8 weeks, millions of commuters in the New York 
metropolitan area suffered through a summer of hell after Amtrak 
announced emergency track work at Penn Station, the busiest in North 
America, because of three derailments in the span of a few weeks. This 
was just an inkling of the turmoil that would be wrought if the Federal 
Government does not live up to its promise to fund much-needed repairs 
on the Northeast corridor.
  I must emphasize, moneys approved by the Appropriations Committee are 
for programs already authorized by the FAST Act, which was passed with 
overwhelming bipartisan support.
  I urge all of my colleagues to vote against the Budd amendment.
  Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. BUDD. Mr. Chairman, this is a lot of money, as I mentioned 
earlier. The State of Good Repair account is funding at 18 times last 
year's appropriated level. Let me say that again: 18 times last year's 
level and the budget request.
  I will close with one more quote from Governor Christie regarding the 
decision to cancel the original version of this project. He said: ``I 
don't want to hear about the jobs it will create. If I don't have money 
for the payroll, it will not create the jobs. This is not a difficult 
decision for me.''
  The Federal Government doesn't have the money for the payroll either, 
Mr. Chairman. We are $20 trillion in debt. Heritage Action for America, 
Club for Growth, FreedomWorks, National Taxpayers Union, and Citizens 
Against Government Waste are scoring ``yes'' on my amendment.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge a ``yes'' vote.
  Mr. Chair, I thank the chairman for yielding, and I yield back.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, again, I think we know this issue. I 
strongly oppose the amendment, and I would urge a ``no'' vote.
  Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from North Carolina (Mr. Budd).
  The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the noes 
appeared to have it.
  Mr. BUDD. Mr. Chair, I demand a recorded vote.
  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further 
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from North 
Carolina will be postponed.


           Amendment No. 33 Offered by Mr. Brooks of Alabama

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 33 
printed in part B of House Report 115-295.
  Mr. BROOKS of Alabama. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 1187, strike lines 3 through 15.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 500, the gentleman 
from Alabama (Mr. Brooks) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Alabama.
  Mr. BROOKS of Alabama. Mr. Chairman, America suffered four 
consecutive trillion-dollar-per-year deficits during the Obama and Bush 
administrations. The election of a Republican House in 2010 brought 
progress. The trillion-dollar-per-year deficits were cut to a low of 
$439 billion in fiscal year 2015. A $439 billion deficit is still 
horrible, but it is a whole lot better than a trillion-dollar deficit.
  Unfortunately, America's solvency has deteriorated since 2015. In 
fiscal year 2016, America's deficit exploded to $587 billion, $148 
billion worse than the previous year. In fiscal year 2017, this fiscal 
year, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office projects the deficit 
will again explode to $693 billion, $145 billion worse this year than 
last year, and that is before the bill comes due for the Hurricane 
Harvey destruction in Louisiana and Texas.
  Congress will soon raise America's debt ceiling as a result, and 
within days thereafter, America's debt will blow through the $20 
trillion mark.
  As a result of America's $20 trillion debt, we pay over $250 billion 
per year in debt service. How much is $250 billion? It is roughly five 
times what we spend on transportation for things like highways, 
bridges, and interstates each year. That debt service money is gone, no 
longer able to provide services to Americans; rather, it is spent to 
make amends for past government excesses and irresponsible spending.
  Worse yet, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office projects that 
America's debt service costs will increase by another $600 billion 
within a decade to more than $800 billion per year. The question is 
then asked: Where is that money going to come from? What is going to be 
cut? Will it be Social Security, will it be Medicare, Medicaid, 
national defense? What?
  The CBO, America's Comptroller General Gene Dodaro, and the 
Government Accountability Office have all warned Congress and the 
President in writing that America's deficits and debt past are: 
``Unsustainable.''
  To be clear, in the accounting field, the word ``unsustainable'' is 
bad, really bad. It is the equivalent of a bankruptcy warning. It is a 
warning that America is headed to a debilitating insolvency and 
bankruptcy if we don't do better.
  In sum, Washington's financial irresponsibility is a betrayal of the 
American people, it is pushing America into a debilitating bankruptcy 
and insolvency that will destroy the American Dream for our children 
and grandchildren.
  It is in this setting that I have beseeched the House of 
Representatives to be financially responsible. Please support my 
amendment that eliminates Federal Government operating subsidies of 
Amtrak, thus forcing Amtrak passengers to pay their actual costs of 
riding on Amtrak trains.
  Stated differently, what policy justification is there for forcing 
Americans who don't use Amtrak to subsidize the travel of Americans who 
do use Amtrak? I know of none.
  How bad is the Amtrak subsidy problem? The Congressional Research 
Service reports that, from 1971 to 2015, Federal Amtrak subsidies 
totaled $78 billion in constant 2015 dollars.
  In fiscal year 2014, Amtrak had a net loss of $1.1 billion. Who will 
pay for that loss? America's children and grandchildren, that is who, 
because that is money we don't have, have to borrow to get, and cannot 
afford to pay back.
  Instead of allowing Amtrak to continue to run up debts and add to our 
national debt, we should force Amtrak to be self-sufficient, we should 
force Amtrak passengers to pay their own travel costs, and we must cut 
Amtrak from the government dole. We don't give these kind of subsidies 
to people who ride on airplanes, and we don't give these kind of 
subsidies in a lot of other means of transportation.
  Mr. Chair, I ask for a ``yes'' vote. Be financially responsible. Make 
Amtrak pay its own way.
  Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to this 
amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Florida is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chair, this amendment would shut down, as we 
have heard, all 15 of Amtrak's long-distance routes and all 28 State-
supported routes.
  Now, let me tell you, the gentleman from Alabama is absolutely very 
consistent, he is sincere about trying to reduce the Federal deficit, 
and I commend him for that.
  Now, here is the problem. This amendment results not in savings but 
in increased costs of $423 million. I want to repeat that. This 
amendment would have the effect of increasing costs by $423 million. It 
would stop all revenues associated with the national network 
immediately, but costs would continue to accrue for years, and in 
addition, some costs that were paid for from the national network 
account would now simply be shifted to the Northeast corridor account.
  So, for instance, assets that are shared by both long distance and 
Northeast corridor, like stations or tracks, are funded under each 
account proportionally. These costs that were formerly paid by the 
national network would still need to be paid. So, again, this amendment 
actually costs more money.

[[Page H7050]]

  I know that, obviously, is not the intent, because I know the 
gentleman from Alabama, and I can say that, is absolutely sincere.
  This is something that we have to realize. This bill is not just 
arbitrary decisions. We held hearings, and we carefully scrubbed each 
account to make sure that the reductions that we made were responsible 
and that they were actually going to result in reductions.
  So, again, this is not the right way to do it. This would actually 
increase costs. It is not prudent to eliminate an entire transportation 
option.
  By the way, furthermore in this case, as I mentioned before, it would 
actually cost even more so to do so. So I would respectfully urge a 
``no'' vote.

  Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. BROOKS of Alabama. Mr. Chairman, only in the Halls of Congress 
does a $1.1 billion cut in subsidies for a mode of transportation 
allegedly result in higher costs to taxpayers.
  I would submit that there is zero evidence that Amtrak passengers 
cannot absorb higher fares to pay their own way.
  Mr. Chair, we are talking about $1.1 billion out of a $700 billion 
deficit for this fiscal year. We have to be responsible, we have to 
protect the future of our children and our grandchildren, and I urge 
the adoption of my amendment to do just that.
  Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chair, I yield as much time as he would consume 
to the gentleman from North Carolina (Mr. Price).
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Chair, I appreciate the chairman for 
yielding and join him in opposing this amendment.
  Amtrak serves more than 500 destinations in 46 States. It is a more 
and more critical component of our transportation system in North 
Carolina and many States like it across the country. It connects small 
communities that otherwise wouldn't have access to air service or other 
first-rate transportation.
  In the past 11 years, Amtrak has had ten consecutive years of record 
ridership, serving over 32 million passengers last year. So this is an 
irresponsible amendment. It would eliminate thousands of jobs for 
Amtrak workers, and it would hurt the local economies that benefit from 
Amtrak routes.
  Eliminating this national network service would also harm State-
supported routes, and we in North Carolina and other States take notice 
when that is charged, and it is an accurate charge. They feed into 
these long-distance routes. It costs the government billions of dollars 
due to the violation of labor agreements. So it would be a very costly 
amendment. There is no doubt about it.
  Support for a robust national rail system has been reaffirmed by 
members of both parties, and we can reaffirm it here tonight by voting 
against this amendment.

                              {time}  2030

  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Alabama (Mr. Brooks).
  The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the noes 
appeared to have it.
  Mr. BROOKS of Alabama. Mr. Chairman, I demand a recorded vote.
  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further 
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Alabama will 
be postponed.


                  Amendment No. 36 Offered by Mr. Soto

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 36 
printed in part B of House Report 115-295.
  Mr. SOTO. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 1190, line 23, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $48,000,000)''.
       Page 1190, line 25, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $48,000,000)''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 500, the gentleman 
from Florida (Mr. Soto) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Florida.
  Mr. SOTO. Mr. Chairman, my amendment would increase funding for the 
Small Starts program by $48 million. This is the amount that SunRail, a 
constituent passenger train system in my district, would need to begin 
phase 3 of construction. Phase 3 would connect the commuter rail system 
to the Orlando International Airport.
  Currently, the Orlando Intermodal Terminal is under construction at 
the airport that would connect two transportation systems, both 
Brightline and SunRail, which were only really divided by a few miles, 
and Federal funding will eventually be key to connect this intermodal 
system and SunRail.
  Central Florida needs to be more mobile, and I urge in the future 
that we look as we go forward with phase 3, and stand ready to help.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time and I withdraw my 
amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The amendment is withdrawn.


                Amendment No. 37 Offered by Mr. Carbajal

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 37 
printed in part B of House Report 115-295.
  Mr. CARBAJAL. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 1201, line 14, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000)''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 500, the gentleman 
from California (Mr. Carbajal) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California.
  Mr. CARBAJAL. Mr. Chairman, I am offering an amendment to ensure we 
are taking the appropriate steps to improve pipeline safety to mitigate 
some of the devastating impacts of oil spills throughout our Nation. 
This is a particularly important issue for my constituents on the 
central coast where we have seen the damage oil spills wreak on our 
communities and local economies.
  During the 1969 Santa Barbara oil spill, over 100,000 barrels of 
crude oil spilled into the Santa Barbara Channel. This was the largest 
oil spill in California's history that significantly harmed Santa 
Barbara's unique marine ecosystems and wildlife, recreational 
interests, and commercial fishing.
  Paired with the 2015 Refugio oil spill, also in Santa Barbara County, 
where clean-up costs hit $92 million, these incidents show us that we 
cannot continue to drag our feet. We need to implement pipeline safety 
and spill mitigation rules that Congress already passed 6 years ago.
  In 2011, the House worked in a bipartisan way to pass the Pipeline 
Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act. This law, which 
passed the House unanimously, directed the Pipeline and Hazardous 
Materials Safety Administration, or PHMSA, to update and strengthen key 
pipeline safety standards. The law called on PHMSA to issue a rule 
requiring automatic shutoff valves on new pipelines and to strengthen 
requirements for the inclusion of leak detection technologies on 
pipelines.
  My amendment is straightforward. It sets $1 million of PHMSA's own 
budget for the finalization and implementation of sections 4 and 8 of 
the bipartisan 2011 pipeline safety law so that our Federal guidelines 
are up to date. Section 4 requires new pipelines to install automatic 
shutoff valves.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Will the gentleman yield?
  Mr. CARBAJAL. I yield to the gentleman from Florida.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. I want to thank the gentleman for bringing this 
issue up and just let him know that we are ready to accept his 
amendment. So if he would just yield back, I will accept this 
amendment. I want to thank the gentleman for bringing it up.
  Mr. CARBAJAL. Mr. Chairman, if the amendment is in order to be 
accepted, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from California (Mr. Carbajal).
  The amendment was agreed to.


                 Amendment No. 38 Offered by Ms. Rosen

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 38 
printed in part B of House Report 115-295.

[[Page H7051]]

  

  Ms. ROSEN. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 1211, line 19, after the first dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $47,000,000)''.
       Page 1211, line 21, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $4,000,000)''.
       Page 1211, line 23, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $8,000,000)''.
       Page 1211, line 24, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $32,660,000)''.
       Page 1212, line 3, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $1,865,000)''.
       Page 1212, line 6, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $475,000)''.
       Page 1294, line 2, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $35,000,000)''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 500, the gentlewoman 
from Nevada (Ms. Rosen) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Nevada.
  Ms. ROSEN. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of my amendment to 
increase funding by $35 million for the Neighborhood Reinvestment 
Corporation, better known as NeighborWorks America.
  For the past 40 years, NeighborWorks America, a congressionally 
chartered nonprofit, has provided financial support, technical 
assistance, and training for community-based development right here in 
the USA.
  NeighborWorks partners with more than 240 organizations focused on 
providing access to homeownership and to safe and affordable rental 
housing. These organizations are public-private partnerships providing 
maximum transparency and accountability in their stewardship of scarce 
Federal dollars.
  In fiscal year 2016, NeighborWorks America developed nearly 13,000 
affordable homes, repaired over 55,000 houses, created more than 21,000 
new homeowners, and assisted over 360,000 families with affordable 
housing.
  NeighborWorks has demonstrated the ability to attract private sector 
investments to its affordable housing projects, leveraging 91 private 
dollars for every $1 of funding appropriated.
  Our country is finally on the pathway to recovering from a crippling 
housing crisis. My home State of Nevada was hit the hardest when the 
housing bubble burst and we experienced one of the highest rates of 
foreclosure. My district, which includes Las Vegas, has some of the 
lowest availability of affordable rental homes to households with low-
income levels. In fact, there are only 15 affordable and available 
rental homes for every 100 rental households.
  NeighborWorks has played a critical role in helping develop and 
preserve affordable housing, revitalize and sustain neighborhoods, and 
create jobs. Last year, Nevada affordable housing organizations like 
Neighborhood Housing Services of Southern Nevada, and Nevada HAND, 
received over $600,000 in grants, providing homeownership counseling 
and education to over 6,500 households, creating over 600 new 
homeowners, and preserving homeownership for over 250 individuals. 
Congress needs to continue to strengthen programs that allow low-income 
families to keep a roof over their heads.
  In addition to financial support and technical assistance, 
NeighborWorks offers home buyer and foreclosure counseling, and 
previously administered the National Foreclosure Mitigation Counseling 
program. Created in 2007 to address the nationwide housing foreclosure 
crisis, this program has counseled more than 2 million homeowners 
facing foreclosure in response to the housing crisis.
  You may hear from my friends across the aisle that there is no longer 
a need for foreclosure mitigation counseling because foreclosure rates 
are decreasing nationwide. And I am glad to see the rates decrease, but 
the reality is that foreclosures continue to plague many parts of this 
country, including my district.
  Statistics from the Department of Housing and Urban Development show 
that a foreclosed home depresses home values, reducing appraisal values 
by nearly 9 percent. Clearly, preventing even one foreclosure helps 
every household in a neighborhood.
  Foreclosure mitigation counseling plays a crucial role in reducing 
chances that a homeowner will not fall back into foreclosure. These 
programs enable counselors to work with homeowners on their budget and 
find the best option for their situation.
  According to an Urban Institute study, counseled homeowners were 
nearly twice as likely to receive a cure for their serious delinquency 
or foreclosure as homeowners not counseled through the NeighborWorks 
program.
  Additionally, NeighborWorks also offers disaster preparedness and 
recovery for communities, including training, resources, and 
assistance. In fact, organizations in and around the impact zone of 
Hurricane Harvey in Houston are ready to offer disaster recovery right 
where it is needed most, and we know Irma is on its way to Florida.
  On the heels of one the worst natural disasters of our lifetime, and 
in the face of additional severe weather events, now is not the time to 
roll back our investment in NeighborWorks and the organization it 
supports.
  Despite the continued need for affordable housing and NeighborWorks' 
success at revitalizing communities, the underlying bill would cripple 
NeighborWorks by slashing its funding. We cannot afford to reverse our 
progress made on affordable housing. Instead, we should continue 
critical investments in programs like NeighborWorks that have proven to 
be successful.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to join me in voting ``yes'' for 
this amendment.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to the amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Florida is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, let me first reassure the gentlewoman 
that I support the mission of Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation. As 
a matter of fact, this bill that we are on provides $140 million, the 
same amount that was provided in 2017. We are not rolling that back at 
all.
  The reduction from FY16, however, reflects the elimination of the 
National Foreclosure and Mitigation Counseling program. Now, this 
program was to be a 1-year program when it began in 2007 in response 
to, obviously, the foreclosure crisis at the time. Again, this 1-year 
program then continued on for 9 years.
  Now, recognizing that the economy improved, obviously, significantly, 
and foreclosure numbers continued to decline, Congress discontinued the 
NFMC program, again, in fiscal year 2017. In fact, the prior 
administration proposed elimination of the NFMC in its budget request 
for the very same reason.
  So in 2016--let's put this in perspective. Foreclosure filings were 
at a 10-year low and declined to 14 percent below the 2015 level. The 
foreclosure rate has stayed within a historically normal range for 3 
years. So, further, the NRC has integrated foreclosure mitigation 
counseling into its other counseling programs, eliminating the need for 
a separate program. So, again, you know, we scrubbed these accounts. 
For those reasons, I respectfully would urge a ``no'' vote on this 
amendment.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Ms. ROSEN. Mr. Chair, I yield the balance of my time to the gentleman 
from North Carolina (Mr. Price).
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Chairman, I commend my colleague for 
offering this amendment, and I strongly support it. Like many Members, 
I have seen the difference that NeighborWorks makes in my own district: 
making available hundreds of affordable apartments, often for veterans, 
for families.
  The administration proposed slashing NeighborWorks by $113 million, 
so I commend the committee, our subcommittee, for refusing that 
proposal. But we need to bring it back to the fiscal year `16 level, 
and that is what my colleague is proposing. That would be $35 million. 
It would bring us to that fiscal year `16 level of funding, and it 
would let NeighborWorks do even more good work in our communities. I 
urge adoption of the amendment.
  Ms. ROSEN. Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentlewoman from Nevada (Ms. Rosen).

[[Page H7052]]

  The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the noes 
appeared to have it.
  Ms. ROSEN. Mr. Chairman, I demand a recorded vote.
  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further 
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from Nevada 
will be postponed.

                              {time}  2045


                Amendment No. 39 Offered by Mr. Grothman

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 39 
printed in part B of House Report 115-295.
  Mr. GROTHMAN. Mr. Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 1215, line 25, after the dollar amount insert 
     ``(reduced by $177,362,500)''.
       Page 1216, line 8, after the dollar amount insert 
     ``(reduced by $177,362,500)''.
       Page 1304, line 22, after the dollar amount insert 
     ``(increased by $177,362,500)''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 500, the gentleman 
from Wisconsin (Mr. Grothman) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chairman recognizes the gentleman from Wisconsin.
  Mr. GROTHMAN. Mr. Chair, this amendment reduces the total funding for 
public housing tenant-based rental assistance, excluding veterans, 
elderly, and the disabled, by $177 million. Our President, Donald 
Trump, who was trying to do what he could to balance the budget, 
actually had less funding for this program than what there was last 
year.
  Because I am a person who believes in getting things done through 
compromise, I am reducing the increase in this program to only 2 
percent from the 4 percent as the bill was shot out of the 
Appropriations Committee.
  I have always had problems with this program. Like a lot of these 
programs, it kind of discourages work in that the more you work the 
more your rent goes up. I think, like a lot of these programs, it 
discourages marriage, because if you are married to somebody with a 
good job, you could lose your apartment. And, finally, like a lot of 
these programs, you could take the time to look at some of these 
projects. I talked to some of the people in my area who administer 
them. The apartments or rental units given to people who get Section 8 
are better than a lot of working people, which doesn't seem right 
either.
  I will also point out, since these appropriations bills were 
originally looked at, I mean at that time we already knew we were 
looking at blowing through a $20 trillion deficit, since that time, we 
have had a couple major hurricanes out there which I think would cause 
everybody to look for ways to reduce the spending that was put in these 
bills in July.
  Mr. Chair, I am going to ask that amendment No. 39 pass. I am going 
to ask that we restrict the increase to 2 percent. I can't believe I 
compromised so much on that, but we will go for a 2 percent increase 
instead of a 4 percent increase, and hope you will all be glad. 
Consider it a down payment to help the struggling people in Texas and 
Florida.
  Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chair, I rise in opposition to the amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Florida is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, we have scrubbed this bill for savings 
in overhead and administration, and I want to thank the gentleman for 
always bringing up these important issues. We have funded vouchers at a 
level that meets HUD's commitment to those currently receiving 
assistance, many of whom are elderly and disabled. I know obviously 
that is not what the gentleman is going after, or both. But again, we 
scrubbed this bill, and we think that the funding is where it needs to 
be at this stage. I would respectfully urge a ``no'' vote on this 
amendment.
  Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. GROTHMAN. Mr. Chair, I don't see how in our current position we 
can afford 4 percent increases on anything. Like I said, I think there 
is kind of an inference here that this is overall a good program, and 
people ought to be looking at this program. Like so many of these 
means-based programs, they kind of create a situation in which we both 
discourage work and discourage marriage. I am disappointed that there 
would be any alliance in this budget that people would feel a 4 percent 
upper was appropriate.
  Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, I yield as much time as he may consume 
to the gentleman from North Carolina (Mr. Price).
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Chair, I thank the chairman for 
yielding time to me, and I join him in opposition to this amendment.
  There are some conflicting accounts about what the underlying bill 
would do. Certainly there has been an attempt to contain the damage in 
the bill. Some groups like the National Low Income Housing Coalition, 
however, estimate that housing vouchers would be lost under the current 
bill, and then we have this amendment? This amendment would compound 
many times whatever problems are involved in the legislation. It would 
have a horrible impact on low-income families.
  The gentleman has asserted here tonight that veterans wouldn't be 
harmed, that the disabled wouldn't be harmed, the elderly wouldn't be 
harmed. Read the amendment. Where is any of this stated? How can he 
make such statement? All these groups and more would be harmed.
  Mr. Chair, I urge this amendment's rejection.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. GROTHMAN. Mr. Chair, just one more time I will point out, it is 
all fine and good to say the Federal Government ought to be spending 
more money. We are broke, and we got a lot more broke in August when 
those hurricanes hit. I think it would be appropriate for everybody 
around here to remember that the day will come when we can no longer 
borrow money, and that will be a very ugly day indeed.
  Like I said, we could have introduced the amendment to go back where 
Donald Trump wanted. I know he is a warrior and cares a lot about this 
country's children and grandchildren. I put a 2 percent upper in there. 
I think it is sad when people feel a 2 percent increase is being 
difficult on people. If there are problems back home, there is nothing 
that prevents local States or counties or individuals out of their own 
pocketbook to put more money in this sort of program.
  Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr. Grothman).
  The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the noes 
appeared to have it.
  Mr. GROTHMAN. Mr. Chair, I demand a recorded vote.
  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further 
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Wisconsin 
will be postponed.


                Amendment No. 44 Offered by Mr. Courtney

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 44 
printed in part B of House Report 115-295.
  Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 1240, line 4, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000)''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 500, the gentleman 
from Connecticut (Mr. Courtney) and a Member opposed each will control 
5 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Connecticut.
  Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Chairman, this amendment, which I introduced with 
my colleague Congressman John Larson also of Connecticut, will address 
a serious escalating problem in north central and eastern Connecticut. 
Thousands of homes there are currently at risk of collapse due to 
crumbling concrete foundations. A mineral identified as pyrrhotite was 
present in stone aggregate mined in a quarry in Willington, 
Connecticut, and used in

[[Page H7053]]

concrete to pour home foundations in at least 36 towns in the region 
from the 1980s through the early 2000s.
  Exposure to moisture causes the pyrrhotite to rust in the foundation 
over time, causing the foundation walls to bow and crack, eventually 
deteriorating to the point where homeowners can literally see through 
the cracks and even remove chunks of the foundation by hand.
  This is a complex issue, and our amendment is a critical step to 
bring assistance to the region. It directs HUD to develop applications 
of Community Development Block Grants to pyrrhotite-related residential 
damage under its antiblight programs and procedures.
  It is our belief that HUD, State, local, and private sector 
stakeholders can develop a collaborative basket of solutions to ease 
the burden of homeowners and prevent damage to the broader real estate 
market and economy of the region.
  Mr. Chair, I urge passage of this amendment, and I reserve the 
balance of my time.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chair, I rise in opposition to the amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Florida is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, I appreciate the gentleman's concern, 
and I look forward to working with him and also with HUD to address 
this issue, and I want to thank him for bringing this up.
  Mr. Chair, I accept the amendment, and I yield back the balance of my 
time.
  Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Chair, I want to thank the chairman for his 
remarks, and I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from Connecticut (Mr. 
Larson), my colleague.
  Mr. LARSON of Connecticut. Mr. Chair, in less than a minute, I want 
to thank the chairman and I also want to thank the ranking member for 
their support in what is a critical issue to the citizens of the State 
of Connecticut. I want to thank Representative Courtney for 
spearheading this effort in the State of Connecticut, along with a 
young State senator named Timothy D. Larson.
  Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Connecticut (Mr. Courtney).
  The amendment was agreed to.


                Amendment No. 46 Offered by Mr. Grothman

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 46 
printed in part B of House Report 115-295.
  Mr. GROTHMAN. Mr. Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 1247, line 2, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $266,000,000)''.
       Page 1304, line 22, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(increased by $266,000,000)''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 500, the gentleman 
from Wisconsin (Mr. Grothman) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Wisconsin.
  Mr. GROTHMAN. Mr. Chair, I would like to thank the chairman and 
ranking member for their collaborative effort to bring this bill 
forward. I do rise in support of my amendment to H.R. 3354, which 
should be amendment No. 46.
  This amendment deals with project-based rental assistance rather than 
tenant-based rental assistance. It suffers from the same problems, 
however. One more time, our President, when he introduced his budget 
looking at the $20 trillion deficit, decided to reduce this program a 
little bit. And it probably would be good to reduce the program a 
little bit because, like many of these programs, it is fundamentally 
flawed in that it discourages work and also discourages marriage.
  I have looked at some of these housing projects in my district, and 
it is again irritating that people who are getting free housing 
sometimes have better housing than people who are paying for their own 
housing; therefore, I make the modest request to get rid of the 
increase in the current budget. I am not going as far as our President 
who actually decreased this line, but I think it is fair to reduce the 
current bill by $266 million, which is the increase in the current 
year.
  Again, I think, as opposed to when this bill was originally put 
together, we have had a couple hurricanes which I think would cause 
everybody in this building to realize that insofar as we can spend any 
more money in this budget, it should be focused a little bit more on 
the people in Texas and Florida, and we should not be increasing other 
programs.
  Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chair, I rise in opposition to the amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Florida is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, this amendment would cut funding as 
was explained to what I believe is a vital HUD program that houses 1.2 
million low- and very low-income households across the country. Now, a 
majority of those households include folks with either disabilities or, 
frankly, folks who are elderly. The average household income is less 
than $12,000.
  This funding level would not allow HUD to renew all expiring housing 
contracts with private owners. It also would cause some other issues of 
instability in that program, that platform, and it could cause housing 
providers to leave the program.
  The gentleman has, I think, some very valid points about some of his 
concerns with all of these government programs. I just don't think this 
is the right way to do it.
  Mr. Chair, again, I would urge a ``no'' vote on this amendment, and I 
reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. GROTHMAN. Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr. Grothman).
  The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the noes 
appeared to have it.
  Mr. GROTHMAN. Mr. Chair, I demand a recorded vote.
  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further 
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Wisconsin 
will be postponed.


                Amendment No. 48 Offered by Mr. Stivers

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 48 
printed in part B of House Report 115-295.
  Mr. STIVERS. Mr. Speaker, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 1258, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert 
     ``(reduced by $28,375,000) (increased by $28,375,000)''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 500, the gentleman 
from Ohio (Mr. Stivers) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Ohio.
  Mr. STIVERS. Mr. Chairman, my amendment would transfer funding for 
the Private Enforcement Initiative at HUD to the Administrative 
Enforcement Initiative. The amendment does not change the top line 
appropriation.
  I believe the Fair Housing Act must be strongly enforced, and I 
believe this is best accomplished by strengthening HUD's Administrative 
Enforcement Initiative and enhancing the role of State and local 
agencies in finding and punishing bad actors.
  The Private Enforcement Initiative has been abused by some nonprofits 
that are more interested in winning attorneys' fees than finding and 
punishing bad actors. The cost of these frivolous lawsuits ultimately 
is transferred onto low- and middle-income Americans in the form of 
more expensive rent and housing, worsening our country's affordable 
housing crisis.
  I don't believe this is fair or what was intended under the Fair 
Housing Act. I believe there is a better way to more strongly and 
effectively enforce fair housing protections, a similar amendment 
passed 2 years ago, and I encourage my colleagues to support this 
amendment.
  Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.

[[Page H7054]]

  


                              {time}  2100

  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Chair, I rise in opposition to the 
amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is recognized for 5 minutes.
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Chairman, I strongly oppose this 
amendment. The Private Enforcement Initiative provides grants to 
nonprofit organizations to prevent and eliminate discriminatory housing 
practices.
  These organizations receive complaints. They investigate them. They 
work to educate landlords and property managers on their 
responsibilities under Federal fair housing law. Their work ensures 
that legitimate complaints move forward and that education is provided 
to housing providers when that is appropriate.
  Across the country, PEI grantees are working to ensure that families 
with children have access to housing. Just this May, HUD and Project 
Sentinel, an organization in California, announced a conciliation 
agreement with a landlord who refused to rent to people with small 
children and infants. Another PEI grantee in California worked to 
ensure that a person with disabilities had access to a medically 
required service animal. Another grantee in Illinois worked to ensure 
that a mortgage lender did not discriminate on the basis of race. This 
is the kind of work that PEIs do.
  It may seem expedient to some to transfer the funding and 
responsibility of investigating fair housing complaints to States and 
local units of government, but we would lose a lot by doing that. What 
we would lose is the organizational knowledge, the years of expertise 
that the PEI program has developed.
  Now, if the gentleman has specific issues with the program about how 
it is run, you know, the authorizing committee can hear those 
complaints, not the appropriations process. This is not the place to 
refine the law under which the program operates, let alone to pull the 
plug on funding.
  Given all of the good work that PEI grantees do across the country 
and in my district, I can't support eliminating this program, and I 
urge colleagues to oppose this amendment.
  Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. STIVERS. Mr. Chairman, unfortunately, in some jurisdictions there 
are many abuses. ``60 Minutes'' had a great story about this. Other 
media outlets have featured the abuses as well.
  The gentleman argues that, gee, we can't do this in the 
appropriations process. We do limitation amendments every day. 
Limitation amendments are germane and effective controls that we have 
in place and we are allowed to put in place on these spending programs.
  I simply believe that the administrative enforcement initiative is 
more effective and will use the money to better help low- and moderate-
income Americans.
  I disagree with the gentleman, and I urge my colleagues to support 
the amendment.
  Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Chairman, this amendment is a pretty 
good example, I must say, of throwing the baby out with the bathwater. 
There may be complaints here and there. There are ways to pursue those 
complaints. But the good work that these organizations do, the 
documented cases of discrimination, discriminatory practices, exclusion 
that they have remedied, that they have made right, should be very 
compelling to us.
  Certainly, the blunt instrument of simply withholding of funding 
isn't going to deal with that. It is going to likely do great damage to 
organizations that, across the country, have had a very positive 
impact.
  This amendment would end their work. It would end the work of 
nonprofits that use funding to ensure housing providers remain in 
compliance with Federal housing law. It is a very bad idea.
  Mr. Chair, let's oppose this amendment, and I yield back the balance 
of my time.
  Mr. STIVERS. Mr. Chairman, I would direct the gentleman, Mr. 
Chairman, to a GAO report on this very program that talks about these 
abuses, and I hope he takes a serious look at it.
  Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to support this amendment, and I 
yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Stivers).
  The amendment was agreed to.


        Amendment No. 49 Offered by Mr. Thompson of Pennsylvania

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 49 
printed in part B of House Report 115-295.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Chairman, I rise to offer amendment 
No. 49.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       At the end of division H (before the short title), insert 
     the following:
       Sec. __.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to establish or collect tolls on Interstate Route 80 
     in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 500, the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. Thompson) and a Member opposed each will control 
5 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Pennsylvania.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Chairman, I rise to offer amendment 
No. 49 to the underlying bill, H.R. 3354, Make America Secure and 
Prosperous Appropriations Act.
  Mr. Chairman, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, over a 5-year period, 
has failed three attempts to place tolls on Interstate 80. 
Pennsylvania's failed plan has cost millions of dollars, led actually 
to the indictments of several political insiders, and abetted in 
diminishing the average citizen's faith in their public institutions.
  Unfortunately, Pennsylvania still has authorizing language for tolls 
of Interstate 80 in State law. Any move by Pennsylvania to dust off the 
plans to toll one of its interstates must be met with scrutiny and open 
public debate, and this amendment will ensure that that happens.
  The amendment I have offered with Mr. Kelly will simply limit funds 
from this bill for the purpose of placing tolls on Interstate 80 in 
Pennsylvania during the fiscal year 2018.
  Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Chairman, I claim the time in 
opposition.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is recognized for 5 minutes.
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Chairman, I can't imagine why we 
would want to micromanage Pennsylvania's transportation system. I 
wouldn't want the body micromanaging North Carolina's.
  We had a decision about tolling in my district a few years ago. 
Tolling wasn't anybody's first choice or second choice or third choice. 
But if tolling had not been instituted on a part of the loop road 
around Raleigh, North Carolina, if tolling had not been instituted, we 
would have waited 20 years for the road to be constructed. So we took a 
deep breath and we undertook a toll project, and that is why the road 
is built and serving commuters today.
  Now, that decision could have gone either way, but we would have had 
no business in this body coming in and dictating that decision in North 
Carolina or any other State. I don't know why we should start tonight.
  Federal law is very flexible about the use of Federal aid funds for 
new toll facilities and even existing toll-free roads. States will make 
different decisions about this.
  I would say our infrastructure needs are pressing enough to require 
an all-of-the-above approach, and if tolls are appropriate and are 
accepted, then that is perhaps what we should do. But that is a 
decision for State and local officials and their constituents in 
considering these matters. We have no business in adopting an amendment 
of that sort, and I very much hope we will not.
  Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Chairman, I am not sure. I 
appreciate the gentleman's opinion, but I don't see where Congress does 
not have input into a Federal highway, and that is what Interstate 80 
is. It is approximately 311 miles. It is more than well-maintained. The 
cost of it, with significant gas taxes levied today, pays for not just 
the maintenance, but the construction and the improvements that are 
necessary.

[[Page H7055]]

  Again, we are talking Federal gas tax, again, a nexus to this body 
that the gentleman doesn't seem to realize. What this amendment does is 
just call on and require an open debate with scrutiny, and so I, quite 
frankly, continue to just ask the support for this amendment.
  Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Chairman, I would like the clarify 
that I am not the least bit interested in getting into the merits of 
this project. It is none of my business, none of our business, so that 
is not the point. I haven't said a word about the merits of the 
project. I know nothing about it.
  What I do know is that this is a decision that the State of 
Pennsylvania is perfectly capable of making for itself. I am not 
interested in the folks that might be on the losing side of a decision 
to come to this body to carry their water. We have no business doing 
that.
  This is simply an inappropriate exercise of appropriations power, and 
I urge the amendment's rejection.
  Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Chairman, I made my arguments 
clear, and I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Thompson).
  The amendment was agreed to.
  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 50 
printed in part B of House Report 115-295.


              Amendment No. 51 Offered by Mr. King of Iowa

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 51 
printed in part B of House Report 115-295.
  Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk made 
in order by the rule.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       At the end of division H (before the short title), insert 
     the following
       Sec. __.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to implement, administer, or enforce the prevailing 
     wage requirements in subchapter IV of chapter 31 of title 40, 
     United States Code (commonly referred to as the Davis-Bacon 
     Act).

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 500, the gentleman 
from Iowa (Mr. King) and a Member opposed each will control 5 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Iowa.
  Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  This is an amendment, a Davis-Bacon amendment, and it will be brought 
on each of the four segments of this appropriations bill that we are 
considering here in the House this evening and perhaps tomorrow 
morning, Mr. Chairman.
  Just to make it clear, the text of the amendment is very simple. It 
says, ``None of the funds made available by this act may be used to 
implement, administer, or enforce the prevailing wage requirements in 
subchapter IV of chapter 31 of title 40, United States Code,'' and this 
is commonly referred to as the Davis-Bacon Act.
  What the Davis-Bacon Act is, it is a statute that exists from about 
1933, and its genesis is back during the Great Depression when there 
was, let's say, labor protectionism brought about by the unions in New 
York City. When a contractor from Alabama bid a Federal building 
contract--and there were not many of them in those days--that Alabama 
contractor was successful and he imported African-American labor out of 
Alabama to do the work in the trade zone of the construction unions in 
New York City. And so two Republicans, a Republican Senator and a 
Republican Member of the House, got together and wrote the Davis-Bacon 
Act, which is defined as prevailing wage.
  In my 42 years in the construction business, which we just concluded 
as of Labor Day, this past Labor Day, we have dealt with the Davis-
Bacon Act quite a lot. Our math goes somewhere between an 8 and 35 
percent increase in the cost of the projects. We use an average of 20 
percent. I believe you will see some of those sophisticated studies go 
to a 22 percent increase in prices.
  So we are dealing with taxpayers' moneys here in a fiscal time when 
we need to get to a balance. There never was a time we should be 
wasting taxpayers' money. A prevailing wage, a real prevailing wage is 
a merit shop wage, not a union scale imposed by a BOGSAT, which is a 
bunch of guys sitting around a table deciding whether they want to give 
raises to the different classifications within the labor force.
  I have long opposed the Davis-Bacon wage scale. It messes up the 
efficiency within our companies and makes us less efficient. This just 
doesn't raise the cost and impose the union scale on the taxpayers, but 
it erodes the efficiency that you can provide in a private sector 
approach. And so after all of these years, I am pledged to see the day 
when this is finally repealed.
  I urge the adoption of this amendment which strikes the use of Davis-
Bacon enforcement in the underlying appropriations, and I reserve the 
balance of my time.
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Chairman, I claim the time in 
opposition.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is recognized for 5 minutes.
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Chair, I rise in opposition to this 
amendment. Davis-Bacon is a pretty simple concept, and a fair one. It 
requires that workers on a federally funded construction project be 
paid no less than prevailing wages, the wages paid in the community for 
similar work.
  The Davis-Bacon Act ensures workers are paid decent wages, while 
preventing unscrupulous contractors from undercutting competitors. In 
doing this, Davis-Bacon helps protect workers and the Federal 
Government.
  Mr. Chairman, the House has taken numerous votes on this issue, and 
on every vote, this body has maintained Davis-Bacon requirements.
  Last year, we avoided including divisive language like this, and it 
is my hope that we will stop attacking working people and their 
organizations and defeat the amendment before us.
  Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, may I inquire as to how much time I 
have remaining?
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Iowa has 2\1/2\ minutes 
remaining.

                              {time}  2115

  Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Chairman, I would like to point out that I hear the script read 
every year that I bring the effort to repeal or undo Davis-Bacon, but I 
don't really hear a lot of response to the fact that Davis-Bacon is a 
Jim Crow law designed to keep minorities, particularly African 
Americans, out of the construction trades, particularly in the unions. 
The assertion that it is a prevailing wage doesn't hold up when you 
live in this universe where I have for 42-plus years--and that is just 
as an owner, and working out, I saw that also for other companies.
  So when I see these rates and I talk to a contractor that is building 
bridges in rural Missouri down there in the whoops and hollers, as we 
say, and they are paying for an unskilled laborer who, for a number of 
those hours, does lean on the shovel while he waits for other things to 
get done, $23 an hour for wages, $22 an hour for fringe benefits, $45 
an hour out of pocket for the contractor really just transferred to the 
taxpayer. That is an example.
  There is much of it that is here that goes in 46, 57, here is $51.60 
an hour, Mr. Chairman. So, no, this is not prevailing wage.
  There is no study that I have found in all the time I have dealt with 
this that would demonstrate that prevailing wage is a merit shop earned 
wage. Instead, it is set, as I said, by a bunch of guys sitting around 
a table. It reflects almost always union scale.
  Many of the merit shop contractors will not report their Davis-Bacon 
prevailing wages because they know that just brings union organization 
up against them. They want to avoid that, so they are not reporting 
what they are actually paying in wages.
  In many of the States that have adopted a mini Davis-Bacon for their 
State or the States that are highly unionized, they press this thing to 
the point where the difference between the merit shop wages and union 
scale is very close together.

[[Page H7056]]

  We have also double-breasted operations where you might have a 
company that is Company A and Company B wrapped up, and one-half of the 
company is union and the other half of the company isn't. That is to 
comply with Federal regulations.
  There is a gentleman who used to serve this Congress in 
Massachusetts, who was famous for saying that the Federal Government 
has no business intervening in between a relationship between two or 
more consenting adults. I agree with that. An employee and an employer 
should be able to decide what they want to make as their business 
agreement. If I decide I want to pay someone $100 an hour or $1,000 or 
$1 an hour, that should be up to me.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge adoption of this amendment, and I yield back the 
balance of my time.
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Chairman, I yield the balance of my 
time to the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Norcross).
  Mr. NORCROSS. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong opposition to this 
amendment that would eliminate the Davis-Bacon prevailing wage.
  Is it that time of year?
  It must be. Come back here to Congress and say: I want to lower the 
wages and working conditions for those men and women in my district. 
That is exactly what we are hearing.
  When you can't win it on the votes, you make revisionist history, you 
play the race card, you throw whatever you can.
  Over 100 years ago, Republican Congressmen Jim Davis and Robert Bacon 
realized there was a problem with Federal contracts. These contracts 
were unfair to local economies. They were not taking into account what 
had been going on historically in those areas. This, very simply, 
ensures that construction workers are paid the same as workers in that 
local community.
  But what I am hearing tonight is I want to go back to the district, 
to people who elected me, and say: I want to lower your wages. I want 
to lower them to the point I will make anything up.
  Because that is exactly what we are hearing. This has been around, 
and it continues to be evolved and made to work because it works for 
those local communities. It is about ensuring those local communities 
are not going to be run over by big Federal contractors coming in, they 
are going to be paid exactly what the people in that community are 
being paid.
  It continues today because it works. It works in New York, it works 
in New Jersey, it works in Florida, and it works in Oklahoma. It is 
about fairness. It is about leveling the playing field--something that 
apparently many people in this Chamber forgot.
  We are here to help raise the standards of men and women we 
represent, not lower them. So I encourage that we defeat this amendment 
to keep doing what we are supposed to do: represent the people who 
elected us and to make their lives just a little bit better, not what 
we are hearing: I will play the race card and try to lower the wages.
  My God, where are we going? We are fighting to lower wages?
  It is about raising people up, letting them be what they should be, 
the greatest thing they can be in the greatest country.
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Chairman, I urge defeat of the 
amendment, and I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Iowa (Mr. King).
  The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the noes 
appeared to have it.
  Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I demand a recorded vote.
  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further 
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Iowa will be 
postponed.


              Amendment No. 52 Offered by Ms. Jackson Lee

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 52 
printed in part B of House Report 115-295.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       At the end of division H (before the short title), insert 
     the following:
       Sec. __.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used in contravention of section 5309 of title 49, United 
     States Code.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 500, the gentlewoman 
from Texas (Ms. Jackson Lee) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Texas.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Chairman, I am reading a headline that says that 
experts say it could take Houston years to fully recover from Hurricane 
Harvey.
  This is not because my local leaders, mayors, county judges, and 
Governors are not working as hard as they can, but it is the most 
significant, singular, and devastating costly flood in the continental 
United States history.
  Certainly, we are praying that Hurricane Irma detours away from those 
places that it has not yet hit. We certainly pray for Puerto Rico, the 
U.S. Virgin Islands, the other Caribbean islands, and certainly our 
friends in Florida and up the East Coast. But right now we have that 
unlikely and unappreciated position of having the most devastating 
flood.
  So my amendment has to do with State and local funds being part of 
designing their own reconstruction, their own projects, their own 
capital projects. Specifically, my amendment says that none of the 
funds made available by this act under the heading Federal Transit 
Administration--Transit Formula Grants may be used in contravention of 
section 5309 of title 49, United States Code.
  The identical amendment was offered in the Jackson Lee amendment to 
H.R. 2577 and received a positive voice vote.
  In particular, this amendment affirms the importance to the Nation of 
projects that create economic development, particularly in the 
transportation area.
  Pursuant to section 5309 of title 49, the Secretary of Transportation 
may make grants under this section to State and local governments.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Will the gentlewoman yield?
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. I yield to the gentleman from Florida.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, I am prepared to accept this 
amendment. If the gentlewoman is willing to yield back the balance of 
her time, I am more than willing to accept her amendment. I want to 
thank the gentlewoman for bringing it up.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. The chairman is very kind. Let me thank the chairman 
and the ranking member of the subcommittee. If I might just take one 
moment and I will conclude taking your gracious offer.
  First, I would like to acknowledge that this amendment is supported 
by the trade unions, the TTD. I thank them very much for their support.
  Mr. Chairman, I include in the Record the article about our 
rebuilding.

               [From the Washington Post, Aug. 28, 2017]

Nation's Fourth-Largest City Struggles to Get Moving Again After Harvey

   (By Ashley Halsey III, Michael Laris, Martine Powers and Luz Lazo)

       Cleanup and flooding in Texas continue in wake of Hurricane 
     Harvey.
       Under the threat of more rain and flooding this week, the 
     regional hub that is Houston faced the daunting prospect of 
     clearing mud-swept roadways, opening two of the nation's 
     busiest airports and resuming operations at the country's 
     second-busiest port.
       Many streets remained impassable, with water more than 
     waist-high. Those highways not flooded too often led to 
     others that were. And officials said it was too soon to say 
     when the transit system would resume operations.
       Houston is a city that for the past eight years led the 
     nation in growth, and although transit was considered to have 
     its place, the city's backbone is the oil industry, which 
     relies heavily on new highways to get around town. When the 
     city spread out into Harris County--which has 6.5 million 
     people to the city's 2 million--the connections were 
     roadways. The state maintains more than 1,200 miles of them, 
     including four interstates, three of which crisscross the 
     downtown area.
       Even though the worst of the storm appeared to be over, 
     transportation officials continued to urge people to stay off 
     the roads. ``We're expecting more rain,'' Houston Fire Chief 
     Samuel Pena said.
       ``The roads are dangerous. Stay off the roads.''
       Once the water clears, it may take weeks or months before 
     roads are fully ready for travel, said Dave Newcomb, a senior 
     research engineer at the Texas A&M Transportation Institute. 
     He said the primary concern will be local streets and 
     roadways, not the freeway system.

[[Page H7057]]

       ``The freeways are probably going to be okay,'' Newcomb 
     said. ``They're built with lots of support underneath them. 
     They're built for heavy loads and adverse conditions.''
       But local roads built on rain-saturated soil may be left in 
     a weakened state, he said, taking a month or two before they 
     stabilize. Bridges that had swift-moving floodwaters around 
     them must be checked for scouring around their supports, he 
     said.
       The sheer scale of the immediate recovery is daunting.
       ``It is really difficult because we're so spread out and 
     highway-dependent,'' said Kyle Shelton, director of strategic 
     partnerships at the Kinder Institute, an urban-research think 
     tank at Houston's Rice University. ``We just have so many 
     streets and so many roads and so much other infrastructure to 
     make sure is okay and bring back online. That's going to take 
     weeks and months.''
       Houston's two big airports--George Bush Intercontinental 
     Airport and the William P. Hobby Airport--will begin to see 
     traffic on their runways even as the rest of the region 
     struggles to find its footing. Officials said Hobby will 
     remain closed until Wednesday; Bush until Thursday.
       The magnitude of the backup to the national aviation system 
     caused when Houston shuts down was evident Monday: 772 
     flights had been set to depart from the two airports, 
     carrying close to 94,000 passengers. The two airports had a 
     record 1.9 million passengers pass through security last 
     month.
       ``You may not even be heading to Houston and still run into 
     this,'' said Anne McDermott of Farecompare.com. She said that 
     late Sunday a flight to Dallas landed in Memphis because so 
     many--Houston-bound flights had been diverted to Dallas. 
     ``It's going to continue to be a fluid situation.''
       The Houston Metro's bus system, three light-rail lines and 
     paratransit services were shut down Monday, with no word on 
     when they would resume service. In a statement, Metro 
     officials said they will monitor the situation to determine 
     when it would be safe to resume service.
       If history is precedent, it may be a while before those 
     buses are back on the road. After Hurricane Katrina in 2005, 
     it took weeks to restore bus service in New Orleans--partly 
     because of the condition of flooded roadways, but also 
     because hundreds of buses were underwater after the storm. 
     With the city's bus fleet unusable, the Federal Emergency 
     Management Agency had to scramble to bring in more than a 
     thousand private coaches to help with evacuation efforts.
       The Houston Metro tried to prevent a similar outcome for 
     this storm, parking more than 100 buses in the HOV lane on an 
     elevated section of Interstate 59.
       ``This is a city that was built, in large part, in defiance 
     of nature,'' said Christof Spieler, an urban planner who is 
     on the board of Metro.
       ``Basically, developers just treated this as a big empty 
     canvas and just spread out across it. We tend to sort of 
     ignore the natural underpinnings of the city. When this 
     amount of rain falls, suddenly that natural geography 
     reasserts itself.''
       And in the long run, Houston--like the rest of the 
     country--has to wrestle with how to become more resilient in 
     an era when weather hazards are increasing. Over the past 
     three years, there have been three floods that have ``all 
     been labeled unprecedented,'' Shelton said. While freeways 
     and many local streets have major sections that are 
     underwater, many other areas are not submerged, depending on 
     their elevation and how much rain there was in that 
     particular place.
       ``Houston is used to flooding. We're not used to anything 
     on the scale of what just happened,'' Spieler said.
       Rapid development over the past two decades--and the 
     sprawling networks of accompanying roadways, subdivisions and 
     parking lots have left Houston especially susceptible to 
     major flooding, said Samuel Brody, a Texas A&M University 
     urban planning professor who leads the Center for Texas 
     Beaches and Shores.
       Such surfaces leave little return path for floodwaters to 
     go into the ground or drainage channels.
       ``You've got a smearing of pavement all over a flood-prone 
     region,'' he said. ``You're putting more impervious surfaces 
     over a large area that is dominated by flood-prone, low-lying 
     landscapes, so when it rains, there's all this impervious 
     surface. It increases the volume and velocity of water going 
     into the bayous which Houston uses as their primary drain 
     system.''
       Between 1996 and 2011, as development boomed, the 
     percentage of impervious surfaces in Houston grew by 25 
     percent, Brody said, citing a report he led that examined the 
     effect of development on flood damage in the Gulf of Mexico 
     region. And although the extreme rainfall totals from Harvey 
     probably would have caused flooding no matter what, Brody 
     said the presence of pavement increases the amount of damage 
     on the ground.
       The 25-mile-long complex of docks and warehouses that make 
     up the Port of Houston planned to remain closed Tuesday.
       Kurt Nagle, chief executive of the American Association of 
     Port Authorities, said that early indications show there is 
     ``light to moderate'' infrastructure damage along the Houston 
     Ship Channel 150 business facilities that generate $617 
     billion in economic activity per year. At least three vessels 
     originally headed for Houston have been diverted to New 
     Orleans, and more may be detoured in coming days from Houston 
     and other affected ports in Galveston, Victoria, Beaumont, 
     Port Lavaca and others.
       The continuing severe weather may have further effects on 
     the ports in the region, Nagle said. But even once things 
     clear up, significant work will need to be done before 
     shipping channels in the area can reopen. The Coast Guard 
     will need to perform surveys of the area to determine whether 
     buoys and navigation aids have been moved or lost, and the 
     Army Corps of Engineers will need to perform a channel 
     assessment to ensure that no debris is blocking the shipping 
     channels under the surface.
       Benny Rousselle witnessed the ravages of water during 
     Katrina from his perch as president of Plaquemines Parish, 
     south of New Orleans. The priorities for leaders in Houston 
     are clear, for now: help those who are stranded.
       ``The pressure is on the local elected officials to get 
     this community up and running as quick as possible, so they 
     can come home and help with the recovery,'' said Rousselle, 
     who is now on the parish council. ``But you cannot do that 
     until you have enough utilities and roadways cleared so they 
     can come in,'' Rousselle said.

  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Chairman, I just want to conclude by making this 
point to Mr. Diaz-Balart, and it is that local entities should have the 
right to direct funds where they believe they are most important, 
particularly for transportation projects.
  As they do so with Federal dollars, let me also add my support for 
Davis-Bacon. It is, in essence, completely opposite with what was 
represented. It is a civil rights bill for all people.
  I ask my colleagues to join me in making sure the State and local 
governments get Federal funds. And as we move forward to restore 
Houston and Harris County and all of the Gulf region, this will be a 
very important amendment to make sure that we can direct our own 
destiny with Federal funds. The Secretary of Transportation has that 
authority to give to us to be able to do so.
  Mr. Chairman, I ask for support of the Jackson Lee amendment.
  Mr. Chair, let me thank Subcommittee Chairman Diaz-Balart and Ranking 
Member Price for their leadership on this important legislation and for 
the opportunity to explain my amendment.
  The Jackson Lee Amendment adds at the end of the bill the following 
new section providing that:
  Sec.__. None of the funds made available by this Act under the 
heading ``Federal Transit Administration--Transit Formula Grants'' may 
be used in contravention of section 5309 of title 49, United States 
Code.
  This amendment is identical to the Jackson Lee Amendment to H.R. 
2577, the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations 
Act for FY2016 adopted by the House on June 8, 2016 by voice vote.
  In particular, the Jackson Lee affirms the importance to the nation 
of projects that create economic development, particularly in the 
transportation area.
  Pursuant to section 5309 of title 49, the Secretary of Transportation 
may make grants under this section to State and local government the 
authority to assist in financing capital projects, small startup 
projects, including the acquisition of real property.
  This section further supports capacity improvements, including double 
tracking, and it specifically relates to work that deals with projects 
on approved transportation plans.
  That is key; section 5309 of title 49 grants to State and local 
governments the authority to undertake capital projects, which means 
that when local governments propose their projects, the Secretary has 
the authority to go forward on them.
  It is instructive to consider what some of the nation's leading 
transportation and economic development organization have to say about 
the importance and economic impact of investments in local light rail 
capital projects.
  It is well documented that nothing enhances the competitiveness of a 
nation in this increasingly globalized economy, that investments in 
transportation infrastructure capital projects.
  Whether it is the seaways, dams, highways, or tollways, and whether 
it involves other modes of transportation, transportation projects are 
major engines driving the economy.
  And it is important for the local community to be the drivers of 
that.
  Metropolitan regions will not be able to maintain its economic 
vitality without the ability to create and preserve infrastructure that 
supports the movement of people and goods throughout our country.
  The Jackson Lee Amendment clearly speaks to the global aspect of the 
Secretary of Transportation having the ability to work with our local 
and State governments.
  Houston is the fourth most populous city in the country; but unlike 
other large cities, we

[[Page H7058]]

have struggled to have an effective mass transit system.
  Over many decades Houston's mass transit policy was to build more 
highways with more lanes to carry more drivers to and from work.
  The city of Houston has changed course and is now pursuing Mass 
transit options that include light rail.
  This decision to invest in light rail was and is strongly supported 
by Houstonians by their votes in a 2003 referendum and by their 
increased usage of light rail service made possible in part by 
transportation appropriations bills.
  Specifically, Harris County voters passed a massive referendum 
proposal that was to set the stage for transit for the next 20 years.
  It included a first stage of four light rail lines, to be complete by 
2012, and a master plan for a 65-mile system, to be complete by 2025.
  An April 2014 report by the Houston METRO on weekly ridership states 
that 44,267 used Houston's light rail service, which represented a 
6,096 or 16% increase in ridership from April of the previous year.
  This increase in light rail usage outpaced ridership of other forms 
of mass transit in the city of Houston: metro bus had a 2.3% increase 
over April 2013; metro bus-local had a 1.3% increase over April 2013; 
and Metro bus-Park and ride had a 8.o% increase over April 2013.
  In a story published February 5, 2013, the Houston Chronicle reported 
on the congestion Houston drivers face under daily commute to and from 
work.
  According to the Chronicle article, in 2011 Houston commuters 
continue to enjoy some of the worst traffic delays in the country, and 
Houston area drivers wasted more than two days a year, on average, in 
traffic congestion, costing them each $1,090 in lost time and fuel.
  Today, those figures have increased to 3.5 days a year wasted in 
traffic congestion, costing them each $1,850 in lost time and fuel.
  To put it in simpler and starker terms: A driver in Houston could see 
154 movies this year or purchase 21 tickets to a home Texans game with 
the money wasted because of poorly maintained or traffic-clogged roads.
  Expanded light rail is critical to Houston's plan to meet its 
transportation and environmental challenges, ease its traffic 
congestion, and improve its air quality.
  Places most likely to see immediate benefit from light rail in 
Houston are the 50,000 students that attend the University of Houston 
and Texas Southern University.
  Funds made available under this deal should be available to support 
local government decisions of the Houston Metropolitan transit 
Authority and the city of Houston to expand rail service.
  When we put our minds to it, we can get things done.
  In Houston, we built a port 50 miles from the ocean, created the 
world's greatest medical center in the middle of open prairie, and 
convinced the federal government to base its astronauts in a hurricane 
zone 870 miles from the launch pad.
  Each of those achievements shares a common element: elected officials 
have advocated, built public support, and brought the agencies 
together.
  Members of Congress should respect the decisions of state and local 
governments when it comes to deciding how they will spend funding made 
available for public transportation under this appropriations bill.
  I ask my colleagues to again support the Jackson Lee Amendment and 
affirm the authority of the Secretary of Transportation to work with 
local governments to develop local transit projects that will relieve 
traffic congestion, efficiently move people and goods, create jobs and 
maintain America's status as the leading economy in the world.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.

  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. Jackson Lee).
  The amendment was agreed to.


            Amendment No. 53 Offered by Ms. Herrera Beutler

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 53 
printed in part B of House Report 115-295.
  Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       At the end of division H (before the short title), insert 
     the following:
       Sec. __.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to enter into an agreement for the establishment or 
     collection of tolls on Interstate Route 5 or Interstate Route 
     205 in the State of Oregon or Washington.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 500, the gentlewoman 
from Washington (Ms. Herrera Beutler) and a Member opposed each will 
control 5 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Washington.
  Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER. Mr. Chairman, recently, the State of Oregon 
passed a transportation package that included a provision to establish 
tolls on the State line between Washington and Oregon. Since that time, 
there has been a lot of concern in my district that tolls could be 
established on the bridges on the Washington border, I-205 and I-5 on 
the Washington side.
  So far, that is not an unreasonable idea if those tolls are going to 
be used on that stretch of roadway. But here is the kicker, Mr. 
Chairman: my constituents do use those bridges overwhelmingly. Upwards 
of 50,000 people a day commute into Portland to work. The problem is 
that the proposal, this scheme, would be used to pay for projects well 
south of Portland and a structure of roadways my constituents don't 
overwhelmingly use. So they would be paying a toll, and that money 
would be used elsewhere in the State for improvements. That is 
fundamentally unjust, Mr. Chairman.
  I am not opposing the concept of tolls, but that creates a real 
problem in terms of how the money is used and I think would break faith 
with really the American people. So I am opposing that. That is what my 
amendment would do, is stop this practice in this area.
  It is not that I oppose the concepts of a fee paid by the users of a 
resource. Let me be clear about that. The issue is that that fee then 
needs to be allocated towards the construction or the maintenance or 
upkeep of that resource. There needs to be that nexus there.
  Honestly, we have issues on those two bridges that need to be 
addressed, and if those tolls were then diverted for use elsewhere, 
then we are going to have some major problems.
  So I am opposing this. My amendment would oppose this.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Chairman, I claim the time in 
opposition.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is recognized for 5 minutes.
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to 
this amendment. I understand the concern that has led to it about the 
practice of tolling or the possibility of tolling on two adjacent 
highways in two States.
  But the same kind of reasoning that applied, I think, to Mr. 
Thompson's amendment earlier would apply to this. This is not a 
decision for us to make on the floor of the House tonight. This is 
clearly a local matter. We don't have any business micromanaging it. 
The States involved can have their own decisionmaking processes. They 
have their own ways of consulting with one another for that matter.
  Federal law has been pretty flexible on this for good reason. It has 
been flexible about tolling, about the treatment of existing toll-free 
roads for good reason. We have pressing infrastructure needs in this 
country. We have great need for flexibility in the way we fund 
infrastructure improvements.
  I relayed earlier the kind of decision we made in North Carolina. It 
was not particularly our first choice to have a toll road, but the 
alternative was waiting 20 years, so we have a toll road. Others will 
make other decisions. But it is not our place to preempt those 
decisions, let alone in an appropriations bill.
  Mr. Chairman, I do oppose this amendment, and I reserve the balance 
of my time.
  Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER. Mr. Chairman, to the speaker's point, I do 
understand, but Interstate 5 and Interstate 205 are highways with 
significant Federal interests. They are Federal highways. These are not 
backwoods roads. These are not even State routes. These are Federal 
highways. The I-5 corridor is over 13,050 miles with an average daily 
traffic of 71,000 and a maximum of 300,000 vehicles. So it is a pretty 
major Federal investment.
  Here is the thing: levying tolls is one thing. That is something this 
body does. I think user fees are fundamentally a fair concept, but we 
need to apply them fairly. Any attempt to levy tolls on I-205 or I-5 at 
the Washington

[[Page H7059]]

State line, the lion's share would be paid by Washington commuters to 
pay for infrastructure improvements that these commuters then wouldn't 
benefit from. This is where I feel like this is unfair in the extreme.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.

                              {time}  2130

  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Chairman, I yield 3\1/2\ minutes to 
the gentleman from Oregon (Mr. Blumenauer).
  Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Chairman, this is an interesting question about 
an opportunity for people in a region to try and craft a solution.
  I have been working with people in Clark County for 40 years, because 
this has been a serious problem between Portland and Vancouver, Oregon 
and Washington.
  The gentlewoman may have noticed that this is a serious problem for 
her constituents. In fact, they pay more of the burden in terms of 
congestion and lost opportunity for economic development. I hear about 
it all the time from businesses in our communities.
  There is no solution to this congestion problem without either 
investing money or sending some pricing signals to try and change some 
behaviors. Not everybody has to cross the I-205 and I-5 freeway at 8:30 
in the morning and 5:30 in the evening.
  What has been proposed in Oregon is to look at alternatives. I am not 
going to prejudge what it is, but I would notice that there is a 
yearlong process that is underway, including people on the other side 
of the river, because we have always worked with Clark County and 
previously with the legislators in the State of Washington and people 
in Congress to try and figure out how we work together. We are one 
region. There are 60,000 people who work in Oregon every day who have 
to negotiate a really troublesome area.
  The Federal Government is still trying to pay for 2017 infrastructure 
with 1993 dollars. We haven't raised the gas tax since 1993, when 
States around the country have been stepping up, including in 
Washington and Puget Sound. Voters are expressing their own frustration 
and taxing themselves to solve these problems.
  The Federal Government has been missing in action. In fact, many of 
my friends on the Republican side of the aisle are looking at creative 
programs for public-private partnerships. There were 26 Senators who 
talked about devolving the interstate freeway system and the Federal 
transportation partnership to the States.
  For us to swoop in when the Federal Government has been missing in 
action and try to help the gentlewoman's constituents and mine and to 
try and pull the rug out from underneath, an approach that may have 
some potential and would in fact require voter support, I think, is an 
egregious overreach.
  I may have missed it, but I haven't heard the gentlewoman's proposals 
to pay for solutions for her constituents. I have offered some. We are 
working on the Oregon side. Occasionally, we have had some partnerships 
with the State of Washington, who collapsed the proposal for a Columbia 
crossing because they weren't willing to put any money on the table. 
For the Federal Government to intervene and take away this option I 
think is outrageous and it is wrong.
  Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER. Mr. Chairman, I would like to inquire as to the 
time remaining.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman from Washington has 2 minutes 
remaining.
  Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER. Mr. Chair, I will make this brief.
  I think a lot of the points the gentleman from Oregon made are valid, 
and I don't reject them at all. I think we need to come up with 
solutions to pay for these things. We need to fix the congestion issue. 
We are one region, and we need to work together.
  I completely agree with all of that, which is why the scheme that was 
put together to tax one portion, essentially charge a toll on 
Washington commuters who are paying into the Portland and Oregon 
economy through their income taxes already and using that money 
collected from those tolls not on the bridge, not on the Columbia River 
crossing, the area where we all agree we need to find a solution, but 
using it elsewhere in the State is fundamentally unfair. He made my 
point. That is the problem.
  It is not that I oppose the idea of tolls. We are going to have to 
bring something to the table. I am not afraid to advocate for that. 
That is not the issue here. Even within this commission, they are going 
to be looking at other ways to fund their projects throughout the 
State. That is great.
  It is fundamentally unfair to pick the pocket of working people who 
don't even have a right to redress Oregon's government. They don't get 
to vote. So to take their money because you can smacks of really being 
a bully. That is what I am against; that is what is unfair; that is 
what I won't stand for; and that is why I am offering this amendment.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge its adoption, and I yield back the balance of my 
time.
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of 
my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentlewoman from Washington (Ms. Herrera Beutler).
  The amendment was agreed to.


                Amendment No. 54 Offered by Mr. Grothman

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 54 
printed in part B of House Report 115-295.
  Mr. GROTHMAN. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       At the end of division H (before the short title), insert 
     the following:
       Sec. __.  Each amount made available by this Act for title 
     II of division H (other than an amount required to be made 
     available by a provision of law) is hereby reduced by 2 
     percent.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 500, the gentleman 
from Wisconsin (Mr. Grothman) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Wisconsin.
  Mr. GROTHMAN. Mr. Chairman, I would like to thank the chairman and 
ranking member for their collaborative effort to bring this bill 
forward.
  As we all know, we are heading towards $20 trillion in debt. One of 
the agencies that I think has been criticized for a long period of 
time, to a certain extent for incompetence and to a certain extent 
wondering whether a lot of their functions are even things appropriate 
for the Federal Government, is the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development.
  President Trump, who got elected to look out for our children and our 
grandchildren, proposed cutting this budget overall by 18 percent. I 
commend President Trump for trying to look out for our children and 
grandchildren.
  The Appropriations Committee has shaved that reduction to 1 percent. 
The purpose of my amendment is to increase it to approximately a 3 
percent reduction, only about one-sixth of the reduction that President 
Trump wanted.
  Since we last met in July, we have gone through two hurricanes. We 
already voted on an $8 billion appropriation. We know that is just a 
small downpayment on the new obligations that we are going to have.
  I would ask this House to increase that 1 percent reduction to a 3 
percent reduction, which is what we have here. I think that is very 
modest. It is not at all what the President wanted. It is just one-
sixth of what the President wanted.
  Mr. Chairman, I encourage my colleagues to support this amendment, 
and I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to the amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Florida is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, we have taken a responsible and 
thorough approach to HUD's funding. We have actually reduced HUD's 
budget by $487 million below last year. We have done so while keeping 
as a priority, for example, housing assistance to the most needy among 
us: the elderly, the disabled, our veterans. This amendment would 
potentially hurt some of these vulnerable citizens.
  Again, the across-the-board approach goes against, frankly, what I 
think we

[[Page H7060]]

have to be doing in government, which is do the tough work and go line 
by line and identify lower priority or functioning programs for 
reductions so that we can then target resources to where they are 
actually most needed.
  Let me just give you a few examples, Mr. Chairman, of where we have 
targeted resources: CDBG, veterans' voucher renewals, vouchers for the 
disabled. I cannot agree to an amendment that would, again, cut those 
programs across the board.
  Also, another issue, which I know is not the Honorable Member's 
intent, but I understand CBO has scored this amendment at zero savings. 
If we had a lot of time, we could talk about why. So, again, it is 
actually not even achieving what the gentleman is trying to achieve.
  I do thank him for his passion in looking out for the taxpayers. I 
think that is a very needed thing here in Congress. But I respectfully 
urge a ``no'' vote on this amendment.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr. Grothman).
  The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the noes 
appeared to have it.
  Mr. GROTHMAN. Mr. Chair, I demand a recorded vote.
  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further 
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Wisconsin 
will be postponed.


                  Amendment No. 55 Offered by Mr. Barr

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 55 
printed in part B of House Report 115-295.
  Mr. BARR. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       At the end of division H (before the short title), insert 
     the following:
       Sec. __.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to implement, administer, or enforce--
       (1) the final rule entitled ``On-Site Completion of 
     Construction of Manufactured Homes'', published by the 
     Department of Housing and Urban Development in the Federal 
     Register on September 8, 2015 (80 Fed. Reg. 53712 et seq.);
       (2) the ``Interpretative Bulletin for Model Manufactured 
     Home Installation Standards Foundation requirements in 
     Freezing Temperature Areas Under CFR 3285.312(b)'', published 
     for comment in the Federal Register on June 21, 2017 (82 Fed. 
     Reg. 28279 et seq.); and
       (3) the memorandum titled ``Construction of On-Site 
     Installation of Add-Ons, such as an Attached Garage'' 
     published by the Department of Housing and Urban Development 
     on June 12, 2014.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 500, the gentleman 
from Kentucky (Mr. Barr) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Kentucky.
  Mr. BARR. Mr. Chairman, as many of you know, manufactured homes are 
the only form of nonsubsidized housing that is directly regulated by 
HUD. Statute dictates that HUD is required to facilitate the 
availability of affordable manufactured homes to increase homeownership 
for all Americans.
  Recently, the Department has imposed excessive and contradictory 
regulations on manufactured housing. HUD is impeding on some State 
functions, reinterpreting regulations to the detriment of longstanding 
and accepted building practices, and implementing rules that 
unnecessarily limit consumer choice and increase costs.
  As the primary regulator of manufactured housing, HUD should work 
with the industry, not against it, to ensure regulations are 
streamlined, cost-effective, and applied fairly and transparently, 
while also working to keep manufactured housing as an affordable 
housing alternative for all American families.
  In central and eastern Kentucky and many other parts of rural 
America, manufactured housing offers a very affordable option and a 
good option for housing for many folks. For the life of me, I do not 
understand why the Federal agency charged with the responsibility of 
providing affordable housing would be limiting choices and access to 
this very affordable and very good option for housing for many rural 
Americans.
  My limitation amendment would fix three problems where HUD's 
regulation of manufactured housing exceeds and, at times, even 
contradicts statutes. These three problems are intrusive installation 
programs, burdensome and unnecessary onsite completion of construction 
rules, and shifting guidelines on alternative construction.
  Mr. Chairman, what I am offering here tonight is an important 
limitation amendment. Addressing these issues will help mitigate the 
ongoing negative impact that these regulations are having on access to 
affordable housing across America.
  I urge my colleagues to support this important work where Congress 
can work together to eliminate impediments to the manufactured housing 
market so that all Americans can have access to affordable housing.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Chairman, I claim the time in 
opposition.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is recognized for 5 minutes.
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to 
this amendment. Our colleague does make solid points about the 
importance of manufactured housing, about the serviceability of it, 
about the access of it, about the affordability. There are many, many 
aspects about manufactured housing that lend themselves to our 
constituents at various income levels.
  He asks why we would possibly want any kind of consumer protections 
enacted at the Federal level in this business, though. I think the 
answer to that is pretty obvious: It is about safety and security. It 
is about protecting consumers who put good money down for these houses.
  That is not to say every rule, every protection is well-conceived. 
Possibly some need to be scrutinized and some need to be revised. But 
are we going to do it tonight on the floor of the House in an 
appropriations bill? I would hope not. That is not a good way to 
proceed.
  We, for one thing, have colleagues on the authorizing committee who 
have not had hearings, as far as I know, on these issues. We have not 
had people who live with these regulations in to talk about them or 
groups that look out for the consumers come in.
  We have very limited debate here tonight, with 5 minutes on each 
side. On that basis, we are going to wipe away carefully conceived 
consumer protections in the area of manufactured housing?

                              {time}  2145

  Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues not to go down this path. That is 
not to say we shouldn't consider these things.
  Congress, including the authorizing committees, and HUD should fully 
examine the impact of these individual regulations before we jump the 
gun and make sweeping changes to existing policy. I urge defeat of the 
amendment.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. BARR. Mr. Chairman, I appreciate the gentleman's arguments in 
opposition. However, I would argue that the best consumer protection is 
competition and choice, and what these misguided regulations do is take 
away access, take away competition, take away choices for consumers. 
That is not consumer protection. It is certainly not consumer 
protection to say to rural Americans looking for access to affordable 
housing: You can't have access to a manufactured home.
  That is not consumer protection. That is hurting consumers.
  And what I would say also is that this is a bipartisan amendment. 
There are Members of the party on the other side of the aisle who 
recognize that in rural America and other places, we need a bipartisan 
fix to bureaucratic overreach, and these are new requirements that are 
not thoughtfully conceived, as the gentleman would argue.
  In fact, these are new requirements imposed without warning, without 
any evidence of consumer harm, without any thoughtful process at the 
agency.
  So, again, I would urge my colleagues to join us in a bipartisan 
amendment to fix a bureaucratic overreach, which denies low-income 
Americans with access to affordable housing.
  Why in the world would we tolerate the agency that is supposed to be 
the

[[Page H7061]]

advocates of poor and low-income Americans denying them access to 
affordable housing?
  Support this bipartisan amendment, support low-income Americans, 
support rural Americans, and support manufactured housing.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Chairman, it is news to most of us, 
I expect, that consumer protections is incompatible with consumer 
choice. We offer protections of all sorts. In the case of housing, it 
is against predatory practices. As the houses are sold, it is against 
shoddy construction, it is against a race to the bottom in terms of 
quality that individual buyers may not be able to perceive.
  That compatibility of basic consumer protections and consumer choice 
is presented every day in our marketplace, and I certainly don't see 
why it should be absent here, although, as I said earlier, some of 
these rules may be up for scrutiny. It is just not that we are prepared 
to do it here tonight.
  I would also point out that the only type of housing that moves 
across State lines is manufactured housing, so that probably provides 
an additional argument as to why we should be particularly diligent in 
dismantling Federal protections. I urge rejection of the amendment.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Kentucky (Mr. Barr).
  The amendment was agreed to.


           Amendment No. 56 Offered by Mr. Smith of Missouri

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 56 
printed in part B of House Report 115-295.
  Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       At the end of division H (before the short title), insert 
     the following:
       Sec. __.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used in contravention of section 642(a) of the Illegal 
     Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 
     (8 U.S.C. 1373(a)).

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 500, the gentleman 
from Missouri (Mr. Smith) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Missouri.
  Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Chairman, this amendment is very 
straightforward. It just requires that funds in Transportation, Housing 
and Urban Development, and Related Agencies only go to cities and 
States that uphold Federal law.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Chairman, I claim the time in 
opposition to the amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is recognized for 5 minutes.
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Chairman, immigration enforcement is 
a Federal responsibility. Local law enforcement is not and should not 
be the long arm of ICE. And if it is perceived to be the long arm of 
ICE, it is going to be very difficult to work with the community to do 
what needs to be done for local law enforcement and community 
protection.
  The end result would tear entire communities apart, would greatly 
hinder the ability of local law enforcement to effectively do their 
job.
  Furthermore, this amendment has no place in the T-HUD appropriations 
bill. The employees of the Department of Transportation, Housing and 
Urban Development are not law enforcement. They do not routinely need 
to interact with Immigration and Customs Enforcement. This amendment 
would insert unnecessary controversy into the bill. It does nothing to 
improve transportation. It does nothing to provide housing for 
vulnerable Americans. It doesn't change existing law, nor does it 
change the way HUD and DOT programs are administered.
  The underlying bill has enough challenges as written without adding 
something of this moment and this divisiveness. So I urge defeat of 
this needless and partisan distraction.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Chairman, the gentleman across the aisle 
is correct when he says that this does not change current law and it is 
just enforcing current Federal law. I would just urge the body to 
support this amendment.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Missouri (Mr. Smith).
  The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the ayes 
appeared to have it.
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Chair, I demand a recorded vote.
  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further 
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Missouri 
will be postponed.


                 Amendment No. 57 Offered by Mr. Perry

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 57 
printed in part B of House Report 115-295.
  Mr. PERRY. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       At the end of division H (before the short title), insert 
     the following:
       Sec. __.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to finalize the notice of proposed rulemaking 
     entitled ``Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards; Federal 
     Motor Carrier Safety Regulations; Parts and Accessories 
     Necessary for Safe Operation; Speed Limiting Devices'' 
     published by the National Highway Traffic Safety 
     Administration and the Federal Motor Carrier Safety 
     Administration on September 7, 2016 (81 Fed. Reg. 61941).

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 500, the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. Perry) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Pennsylvania.
  Mr. PERRY. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  This amendment would prohibit the use of funds for FMCSA and NHTSA--
two agencies--to finalize their joint notice of proposed rulemaking 
mandating the use of speed limiting devices on heavy-duty trucks and 
buses.
  To support their proposal, FMCSA and the National Highway Traffic 
Safety Administration focused on the potential decrease in the severity 
of accidents. However, the severity of accidents is already trending 
downward, Mr. Chairman.
  As a matter of fact, the large truck-involved fatal crash rate per 
100 million miles has dropped 74 percent since 1980. Bus-involved fatal 
crash rate per 100 million miles has dropped 71 percent since 1980 
without the Federal Government's involvement in speed limiting device. 
It is not clear that the mandate would further reduce these crashes.
  According to the FMCSA reports, 74.1 percent of truck-involved fatal 
crashes occur on noninterstates with speed limits lower than the 
proposed levels. So they are going to put the speed limiter on, but it 
is not even going to apply where the accidents happen.
  These are significant concerns that this mandate may actually 
increase the number of accidents. Studies have consistently shown that 
a higher variance of vehicle speed increases accident risk. It is not 
good to have some vehicles going slow and some going really fast in the 
same place.
  Speed limiters create speed differentials among vehicles. As 
interaction among these vehicles increases, so does the likelihood of 
more accidents.
  Speed limiters will result in lost productivity, necessitating more 
heavy-duty vehicles on the road to support current demand because they 
won't be able to get the product where they want to get it to because 
they are all going to be going slower, mandated by the Federal 
Government. Thank goodness the Good Idea Fairy from the Federal 
Government showed up where nobody asked them to.
  Finally, this proposal disregards the authority of States to 
determine speed limits within their borders.
  Again, thank goodness the Federal Government is here to tell all 50 
States how to run their railroads and run their highways and their 
speed limits.
  If speed limiters led to fuel savings and increased safety, the 
market will incentivize the use of these devices. The market does this 
and does it well

[[Page H7062]]

and does it best. However, it is not their role. This is not the role 
of the Federal Government to mandate their use.
  Mr. Chairman, I am not asking for less money or more money. I am 
asking you to save money and save freedom for the American people, make 
sure their products get to their homes on time, and to get the Federal 
Government out of the way of one truck trying to pass another one, one 
doing 54 and another one doing 54.1 miles an hour for 20 miles up the 
highway.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to 
the amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is recognized for 5 minutes.
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Chairman, the facts are pretty clear 
about this matter. A thousand people die on our highways each year 
because of speeding trucks. The technology that limits speeding by 
large trucks is already installed and successfully deployed by many 
trucking companies across this country.
  We know that high speeds in large trucks are a deadly combination. A 
2012 study by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration found 
that trucks without a speed limiting device had twice as many speed-
related crashes as those who had a speed limiter installed. Those are 
the facts. Pretty incontrovertible, I believe.
  So on the basis of this, quite rightly, the National Highway Traffic 
Safety Administration and the Federal Motor Carrier Safety 
Administration have a rulemaking under way, a careful rulemaking 
looking at all the evidence, and the proposal is here tonight that we 
upend that, that we on the floor of this House, with 5 minutes of 
consideration on each side, that we abrogate unto ourselves the 
decision to upend this safety rule.
  This is technology that saves lives. The evidence is very clear. What 
that exact rule should look like in the end, we don't know, but we do 
know that to completely set aside the rulemaking process in such a 
vital area is reckless and irresponsible. This amendment should be 
rejected.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. PERRY. Mr. Chairman, the facts are clear that, as I stated, large 
truck-involved fatal crashes per 100 million miles has dropped 74 
percent since 1980, before speed limiters were even available. Bus-
involved fatal crashes per 100 million miles has dropped 71 percent 
since 1980, before all this happened.
  Somehow the private sector doesn't want to crash their trucks, and if 
the private sector and certain companies want to install the speed 
limiters, they do that because they don't want to crash their trucks. 
Guess what, folks. Most people don't want to crash their trucks.
  Another thing. You know, we love these agencies to do the things that 
we don't want to do, apparently, and then we create them, and then they 
do things that we don't want them to do, and we say: Well, we abrogate 
to ourselves.
  Yeah, we were duly elected by the citizens of this country to run the 
country. They didn't elect any of these people to come up with these 
rules. They don't want them. So I am here to defend the people that 
want freedom and don't want nameless, faceless, account-less 
bureaucrats running our lives. And this is one instance where they are 
doing it.
  Mr. Chairman, I ask for positive consideration of this amendment, and 
I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance 
of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Perry).
  The amendment was agreed to.

                              {time}  2200


                 Amendment No. 58 Offered by Mr. Babin

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 58 
printed in part B of House Report 115-295.
  Mr. BABIN. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       At the end of division H (before the short title), insert 
     the following:
       Sec. __.  None of the funds made available to the 
     Department of Transportation by this Act may be obligated or 
     expended to implement, administer, or enforce the 
     requirements of section 31137 of title 49, United States 
     Code, or any regulation issued by the Secretary pursuant to 
     such section, with respect to the use of electronic logging 
     devices by operators of commercial motor vehicles, as defined 
     in section 31132 of such title.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 500, the gentleman 
from Texas (Mr. Babin) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Texas.
  Mr. BABIN. Mr. Chairman, my amendment would delay the implementation 
and enforcement of the electronic logging device mandate, currently set 
to go into effect this December 18, until the end of the next fiscal 
year, September 30, 2018.
  But while this amendment is certainly about trucking, truckers, and 
the businesses and jobs that depend on them, I think it speaks to 
something more, something that all of us, who have the privilege of 
serving here in the people's House, are absolutely here to do.
  Reducing the regulatory burdens put in motion by previous 
administrations is one of our most important jobs here in Congress: to 
encourage entrepreneurship and create jobs in America.
  This ELD mandate is one such regulation.
  I am honored to stand with the independent truckers, our Nation's 
agriculture producers, and countless small businesses to offer this 
bipartisan amendment and fight on their behalf. More than 30 
associations have endorsed this.
  Let's make something clear: my amendment will not ban ELDs, and it 
will not repeal the mandate from going into effect at a future date.
  All my amendment does is delay the mandatory requirement that almost 
every interstate hauling truck will have to pay for and install one of 
these devices by the end of this year.
  For those who have already installed an ELD and are satisfied with 
it, my message is simple: if you like your ELD, you can keep your ELD.
  While it is too late to use the Congressional Review Act on this 
regulation, it is not too late to act.
  Passage of this amendment and the underlying bill will set us on the 
course to protect small businesses and prevent a major disruption to 
the freight and shipping network just 1 week before this Christmas.
  To all of my colleagues on the Appropriations Committee, I say thank 
you for section 132 of this bill, which already provides relief from 
the ELD mandate for livestock haulers. Please join me now to give 
relief to all American truckers.
  And to all of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, I say another 
year will give the President time to nominate and confirm a full-time 
Director of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, allow for 
waivers and exemptions to be examined and adjudicated, and alleviate 
the sticker shock for installation and compliance facing small trucking 
companies this December 18.
  We may disagree on many sorts of issues, but we will all go home on 
the weekend to districts where small businesses are the very backbone 
of our local communities and our economy. Let's give them a hand. Let's 
take another year and get this thing right.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge support for my amendment and the underlying 
bill, and I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Chairman, I claim the time in 
opposition to the amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is recognized for 5 minutes.
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to 
the amendment.
  Truck crash deaths in this country have increased significantly in 
recent years. That should be the backdrop of this discussion. 4,067 
people were killed in crashes involving large trucks in 2015 alone. 
That is a 20 percent increase since 2009. And studies show that driver 
fatigue--that is what this amendment is all about, driver fatigue--is 
an important part of the problem.
  The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration and the National 
Transportation Safety Board repeatedly have recommended that all trucks 
and buses be equipped with ELDs.

[[Page H7063]]

  In 2012, Congress decided to take strong action to address this 
problem and passed a requirement for the use of ELDs with bipartisan 
support as a part of the MAP-21 legislation.
  Supporters of this amendment say that the enforcement community is 
not ready to begin enforcement by December 18. That is really not the 
case.
  And it is also true that inspectors aren't going to pull truckers out 
of service for noncompliance until April 1 of next year. That is a 
considerable grace period. It will give the trucking and the 
enforcement community ample time to adjust to the mandate.
  The Department of Transportation has estimated that the benefits 
adopting ELDs to be over $1 billion. So implementing the mandate makes 
financial sense, and it certainly makes sense in terms of the safety of 
our people, the safety on our roads.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge opposition of this amendment, and I reserve the 
balance of my time.
  Mr. BABIN. Mr. Chairman, I would answer that some of the companies 
with the worst safety records have had a full slate of ELDs in their 
fleet for many years. There is evidence absolutely to the contrary of 
what the gentleman just said.
  Also, the Obama administration, who signed this bill into law during 
a time when the House was Republican and the Senate was Democrat--the 
Department of Transportation estimates that the cost of compliance for 
this mandate is over $2 billion. That comes from the previous 
administration itself.
  So I would urge my colleagues to support this amendment and to give 
relief to the small businesses. Three out of four truckers are in favor 
of delaying the implementation of this mandate.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the 
gentleman from Arkansas (Mr. Crawford).
  Mr. CRAWFORD. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to Mr. Babin's 
amendment, which delays FMCSA's electronic logging device rulemaking. 
While well intentioned, this delay will endanger public safety by 
giving commercial vehicle operators the ability to exceed the Federal 
hours of service limits.
  In 2012, Congress passed the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st 
Century Act, or MAP-21, which instructed the FMCSA to issue a 
rulemaking requiring the use of ELDs in commercial vehicles. Congress 
again reaffirmed the ELD requirement in the FAST Act and fiscal year 
2016 appropriations. The American Trucking Association was in lockstep 
with Congress at each instance, and thousands of fleet owners across 
the country have taken steps to adopt this technology and train their 
drivers as Congress intended.
  After 5 years, FMCSA has completed this rulemaking, and has done so 
in the proper way: by conferring with industry and Congress and holding 
public meetings in advance of implementation.
  I can appreciate that my friends in agriculture industry--some of my 
closest friends--I serve on the Agriculture Committee, as well as the 
Transportation and Infrastructure Committee--would like to see a delay 
of the ELD rule. Instead of this amendment being a catch-all delay, 
perhaps my friend could have structured a more precise exemption for 
those in niche segments of transportation, like agriculture. That is a 
policy many would have considered supporting, including myself.
  The Acting CHAIR. The time of the gentleman has expired.
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. I yield an additional 30 seconds to the 
gentleman.
  Mr. CRAWFORD. In closing, Mr. Chairman, I ask my colleagues on both 
sides of the aisle to oppose this well-intentioned amendment--a policy 
that secured nearly unanimous support in our conference when it was 
enacted--and work with an administration that understands smart, 
consumer safety-minded regulations like this.
  We can work with the President, Secretary Chao, and others at FMCSA 
to address some of the concerns my friend from Texas has without 
undoing the progress that has been made to ensure our highways are 
safer with ELDs.
  Mr. BABIN. Mr. Chairman, I continue to reserve the balance of my 
time.
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Chairman, I yield the remainder of 
my time to the gentleman from Arkansas (Mr. Westerman).
  Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to this amendment.
  I have great respect for my colleague, Mr. Babin, who introduced this 
amendment, and I understand his intentions. I just believe that it is 
too late in the game to be changing this rule. There are many companies 
who have invested in this technology.
  We seem to have a problem in Congress where we can't give clear 
direction to businesses, and, therefore, it creates a lot of 
uncertainty. They sometimes make investments and the rules change. This 
will be a time when the rules would change before this investment would 
even be made.
  There have been specific issues, like livestock, that have been 
addressed already in committee.
  Mr. Chairman, again, I urge a ``no'' vote on this amendment.
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance 
of my time.
  Mr. BABIN. Mr. Chairman, how much time do I have remaining?
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Texas has 1 minute remaining.
  Mr. BABIN. Mr. Chairman, in answer to my colleagues from Arkansas, I 
appreciate what they are saying. However, the truth is that there is a 
lot of confusion.
  This is a mandate. Many of us came to Congress to roll back these 
types of mandates and this type of regulatory bureaucracy, which 
stifles entrepreneurship and the creation of jobs.
  We are not trying to do away with this mandate. What we are trying to 
do is delay it so that we can adjudicate, study, and let people find 
out exactly how much it will cost because there are some disputes 
there.
  If you like your ELD, you can keep your ELD.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Texas (Mr. Babin).
  The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the noes 
appeared to have it.
  Mr. BABIN. Mr. Chairman, I demand a recorded vote.
  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further 
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Texas will 
be postponed.


              Amendment No. 59 Offered by Mr. King of Iowa

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 59 
printed in part B of House Report 115-295.
  Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk made 
in order by the rule.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       At the end of division H (before the short title), insert 
     the following:

       Sec. ___.  None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used for a new hire who has not been verified through the 
     E-Verify program.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 500, the gentleman 
from Iowa (Mr. King) and a Member opposed each will control 5 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Iowa.
  Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, this is an E-Verify amendment. It was 
offered in the previous segment of this appropriation bill as well.
  What it does, it just simply reinstates and clarifies Federal law, 
the requirement to use E-Verify in the forms of all Federal 
contracting. Under this T-HUD bill, that is what would apply.
  We have run into cases where there has been, let's say, concerns that 
the Federal agencies are not uniformly and consistently abiding by 
Federal law. This says that the funds will not be used for new hires, 
unless they are verified through the E-Verify program.
  The E-Verify program--we worked this now for quite a few years, 
brought to us by Ken Calvert of California--even though in its early 
days it hit a couple of bumps in the road, it has gotten better and 
better. We use it, I have used it, it is efficient, and it is not time-
consuming at all.
  This reiterates Federal law. In fact, the Federal Acquisition 
Regulation Act of 2009 reinforces and requires that compliance be there 
for new hires, and

[[Page H7064]]

to use E-Verify on all new hires affected by this appropriations bill.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge this adoption, and I reserve the balance of my 
time.
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Chairman, I claim the time in 
opposition to the amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is recognized for 5 minutes.
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to 
this needless, divisive, and, indeed, provocative amendment.
  President Bush, long ago, ordered Federal agencies to comply with E-
Verify. That was in 2007. I have seen no indication that the Trump 
administration intends to rescind this order.
  This amendment, if it only applies to hiring at Federal agencies, 
would do nothing, absolutely nothing. So why is it before us? What is 
the purpose here tonight? Is it possibly a political purpose?
  What the amendment does do, in fact, is to insert unnecessary 
controversy into this bill. It does nothing to improve transportation, 
and it does nothing to provide housing for vulnerable Americans.
  The underlying bill, one would think, has enough challenges, as 
written, without this gratuitous amendment.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge defeat of this distraction, and I yield back the 
balance of my time.
  Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, in response to the gentleman's 
comments, I am not at all convinced that it is needless. The reports 
that I am getting are that E-Verify has not been adequately enforced, 
especially at the contractor and subcontractor level.
  This is Congress reminding those who consume Federal dollars and 
Federal contracting under this T-HUD appropriations bill that they 
shall comply with the law that was referenced by the gentleman. I don't 
know why it would be divisive, if it is Federal law, and needless, 
supposedly.
  Let's go ahead and pass this and remind those that follow Federal law 
and this debate won't happen next year.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge adoption of this amendment, the E-Verify 
amendment, and I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Iowa (Mr. King).
  The amendment was agreed to.


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, proceedings 
will now resume on those amendments printed in part B of House Report 
115-295 on which further proceedings were postponed, in the following 
order:
  Amendment No. 15 by Mr. King of Iowa.
  Amendment No. 17 by Mr. Carter of Georgia.
  Amendment No. 25 by Mr. McClintock of California.
  Amendment No. 32 by Mr. Budd of North Carolina.
  Amendment No. 33 by Mr. Brooks of Alabama.
  Amendment No. 38 by Ms. Rosen of Nevada.
  Amendment No. 39 by Mr. Grothman of Wisconsin.
  Amendment No. 46 by Mr. Grothman of Wisconsin.
  Amendment No. 51 by Mr. King of Iowa.
  Amendment No. 54 by Mr. Grothman of Wisconsin.
  Amendment No. 56 by Mr. Smith of Missouri.
  Amendment No. 58 by Mr. Babin of Texas.
  The Chair will reduce to 2 minutes the minimum time for any 
electronic vote after the first vote in this series.

                              {time}  2215


              Amendment No. 15 Offered by Mr. King of Iowa

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Iowa (Mr. 
King) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which the ayes 
prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 176, 
noes 241, not voting 16, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 445]

                               AYES--176

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Davidson
     Dent
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Ferguson
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jones
     Jordan
     Kelly (MS)
     King (IA)
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Latta
     Long
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     Marchant
     Marshall
     Massie
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Noem
     Norman
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Posey
     Ratcliffe
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stewart
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tipton
     Trott
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (IA)

                               NOES--241

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Barletta
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Bost
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bucshon
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cook
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costello (PA)
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     Davis, Rodney
     DeFazio
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     Denham
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Diaz-Balart
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Donovan
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Duffy
     Ellison
     Emmer
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Faso
     Fitzpatrick
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gianforte
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Graves (MO)
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Joyce (OH)
     Kaptur
     Katko
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kelly (PA)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     LaHood
     Lance
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lewis (MN)
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     MacArthur
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Marino
     Mast
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McKinley
     McNerney
     Meehan
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Murphy (PA)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Newhouse
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rosen
     Roskam
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, Austin
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Stefanik
     Stivers
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Tiberi
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walden
     Walz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth
     Young (AK)
     Zeldin

[[Page H7065]]


  


                             NOT VOTING--16

     Bridenstine
     Brooks (IN)
     Costa
     Cummings
     Curbelo (FL)
     DeGette
     Franks (AZ)
     Garrett
     Huffman
     Lieu, Ted
     Pittenger
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Rush
     Scalise
     Wasserman Schult

                              {time}  2239

  Mr. COSTELLO of Pennsylvania, Ms. FRANKEL of Florida, Messrs. LAWSON 
of Florida, KELLY of Pennsylvania, MURPHY of Pennsylvania, DAVID SCOTT 
of Georgia, and DUFFY changed their vote from ``aye'' to ``no.''
  Messrs. FLORES, ROGERS of Kentucky, and DAVIDSON changed their vote 
from ``no'' to ``aye.''
  So the amendment was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
  Stated for:
  Mr. PITTENGER. Mr. Chair, had I been present, I would have voted 
``yea'' on rollcall No. 445.
  Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Chair, on rollcall vote No. 445, I incorrectly voted 
``no.'' I would like to reflect that I intended to vote ``yes.''


       MOMENT OF SILENCE IN MEMORY OF VICTIMS OF HURRICANE HARVEY

  The Acting CHAIR (Mr. Ryan of Wisconsin). The Chair would ask all 
present to rise for the purpose of a moment of silence.
  The Chair asks that the body now observe a moment of silence in 
memory of the victims of Hurricane Harvey.


           Amendment No. 17 Offered by Mr. Carter of Georgia

  The Acting CHAIR. Without objection, 2-minute voting will continue.
  There was no objection.
  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Georgia 
(Mr. Carter) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which 
the ayes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 141, 
noes 279, not voting 13, as follows

                             [Roll No. 446]

                               AYES--141

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barton
     Biggs
     Bishop (GA)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Crawford
     Cuellar
     Culberson
     Davidson
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Ferguson
     Foxx
     Frelinghuysen
     Gallagher
     Gianforte
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Handel
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Issa
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jones
     Jordan
     Kelly (MS)
     King (IA)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lewis (MN)
     LoBiondo
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Mooney (WV)
     Noem
     Norman
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Pearce
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Pocan
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Polis
     Posey
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Renacci
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Ruppersberger
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Smith (TX)
     Stewart
     Taylor
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tipton
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Westerman
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoho
     Young (IA)

                               NOES--279

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Bacon
     Barr
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Bergman
     Beyer
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Bost
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brooks (IN)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Collins (NY)
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cook
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costello (PA)
     Courtney
     Cramer
     Crist
     Crowley
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     Davis, Rodney
     DeFazio
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Diaz-Balart
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Donovan
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Duffy
     Ellison
     Emmer
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Faso
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gaetz
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gibbs
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Graves (MO)
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Guthrie
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Holding
     Hoyer
     Huizenga
     Hurd
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Jenkins (KS)
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Joyce (OH)
     Kaptur
     Katko
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kelly (PA)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Kustoff (TN)
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Latta
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lipinski
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Long
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     MacArthur
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Matsui
     McCarthy
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McKinley
     McNerney
     Meehan
     Meeks
     Meng
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Moore
     Moulton
     Mullin
     Murphy (FL)
     Murphy (PA)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Newhouse
     Nolan
     Norcross
     Nunes
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Paulsen
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Reichert
     Rice (NY)
     Rice (SC)
     Richmond
     Rosen
     Roskam
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Roybal-Allard
     Royce (CA)
     Ruiz
     Rush
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (WA)
     Smucker
     Soto
     Speier
     Stefanik
     Stivers
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Tenney
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Tiberi
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Trott
     Tsongas
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Walz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wenstrup
     Williams
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth
     Yoder
     Young (AK)
     Zeldin

                             NOT VOTING--13

     Bridenstine
     Costa
     Cummings
     Curbelo (FL)
     DeGette
     Franks (AZ)
     Garrett
     Huffman
     Lieu, Ted
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Wasserman Schultz


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (Mr. Collins of Georgia) (during the vote). There is 
1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  2245

  Messrs. PITTENGER, POLIS, and ROHRABACHER changed their vote from 
``no'' to ``aye.''
  So the amendment was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


               Amendment No. 25 Offered by Mr. McClintock

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from California 
(Mr. McClintock) on which further proceedings were postponed and on 
which the noes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 140, 
noes 280, not voting 13, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 447]

                               AYES--140

     Allen
     Amash
     Arrington
     Babin
     Banks (IN)
     Barton
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Castor (FL)
     Chabot
     Coffman
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Conaway
     Cooper
     Costello (PA)
     Culberson
     Davidson
     Denham
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Farenthold
     Ferguson
     Flores
     Foxx
     Gaetz

[[Page H7066]]


     Gallagher
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Handel
     Harris
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Himes
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Issa
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jones
     Jordan
     Labrador
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Marchant
     Massie
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Messer
     Newhouse
     Norman
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Polis
     Posey
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Roskam
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Smith (TX)
     Stewart
     Thornberry
     Tiberi
     Trott
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                               NOES--280

     Abraham
     Adams
     Aderholt
     Aguilar
     Amodei
     Bacon
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Bergman
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Bishop (UT)
     Blum
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Bost
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bucshon
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castro (TX)
     Cheney
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Cole
     Comer
     Comstock
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cook
     Correa
     Courtney
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     Davis, Rodney
     DeFazio
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     Dent
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Diaz-Balart
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Donovan
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Duffy
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Estes (KS)
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Faso
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Fortenberry
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Frelinghuysen
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gosar
     Gottheimer
     Graves (MO)
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Guthrie
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Harper
     Hartzler
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Hill
     Hoyer
     Hurd
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Joyce (OH)
     Kaptur
     Katko
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Kustoff (TN)
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Long
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     MacArthur
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Marino
     Marshall
     Mast
     Matsui
     McCarthy
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McKinley
     McNerney
     Meehan
     Meeks
     Meng
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Moore
     Moulton
     Mullin
     Murphy (FL)
     Murphy (PA)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Noem
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Palazzo
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Pearce
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Poliquin
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Reichert
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rogers (KY)
     Rosen
     Rothfus
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Rutherford
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (WA)
     Smucker
     Soto
     Speier
     Stefanik
     Stivers
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Thompson (PA)
     Tipton
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walden
     Walz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Westerman
     Wilson (FL)
     Womack
     Yarmuth
     Young (AK)

                             NOT VOTING--13

     Bridenstine
     Costa
     Cummings
     Curbelo (FL)
     DeGette
     Franks (AZ)
     Garrett
     Huffman
     Lieu, Ted
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Wasserman Schultz


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  2249

  So the amendment was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


                  Amendment No. 32 Offered by Mr. Budd

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from North 
Carolina (Mr. Budd) on which further proceedings were postponed and on 
which the noes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 159, 
noes 260, not voting 14, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 448]

                               AYES--159

     Abraham
     Allen
     Amash
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buck
     Budd
     Byrne
     Carter (GA)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Collins (GA)
     Comer
     Conaway
     Crawford
     Davidson
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Ferguson
     Flores
     Foxx
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Gallego
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Graves (MO)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jones
     Jordan
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     Long
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Luetkemeyer
     Marchant
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Noem
     Norman
     O'Halleran
     Olson
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Posey
     Ratcliffe
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Roskam
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Sinema
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (TX)
     Smith (WA)
     Taylor
     Thornberry
     Tipton
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho

                               NOES--260

     Adams
     Aderholt
     Aguilar
     Amodei
     Barletta
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Bishop (UT)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Bost
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Buchanan
     Bucshon
     Burgess
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Calvert
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Carter (TX)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Cole
     Collins (NY)
     Comstock
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cook
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costello (PA)
     Courtney
     Cramer
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Culberson
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     Davis, Rodney
     DeFazio
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Diaz-Balart
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Donovan
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Faso
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Fortenberry
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Frelinghuysen
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Garamendi
     Gianforte
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Granger
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Herrera Beutler
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Holding
     Hoyer
     Hurd
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Joyce (OH)
     Kaptur
     Katko
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Lance
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lucas
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     MacArthur
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Marino
     Matsui
     McCarthy
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McHenry
     McNerney
     Meehan
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moolenaar
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Murphy (PA)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Newhouse
     Nolan
     Norcross
     Nunes
     O'Rourke
     Palazzo
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson

[[Page H7067]]


     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Reed
     Reichert
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rooney, Francis
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Rutherford
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (NJ)
     Smucker
     Soto
     Speier
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Tenney
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Thompson (PA)
     Tiberi
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Trott
     Tsongas
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walden
     Walz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                             NOT VOTING--14

     Brady (TX)
     Bridenstine
     Costa
     Cummings
     Curbelo (FL)
     DeGette
     Franks (AZ)
     Garrett
     Huffman
     Lieu, Ted
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Wasserman Schultz


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  2253

  Mr. PALAZZO and Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER changed their vote from ``aye'' 
to ``no.''
  So the amendment was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


                          personal explanation

  Mr. FRANKS of Arizona. Mr. Chair, I was unavoidably detained. Had I 
been present, I would have voted ``yea'' on rollcall No. 445, ``yea'' 
on rollcall No. 446, ``yea'' on rollcall No. 447, and ``yea'' on 
rollcall No. 448.


           Amendment No. 33 Offered by Mr. Brooks of Alabama

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Alabama 
(Mr. Brooks) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which 
the noes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 128, 
noes 293, not voting 12, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 449]

                               AYES--128

     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Buck
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Collins (GA)
     Comer
     Conaway
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Davidson
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Emmer
     Farenthold
     Ferguson
     Flores
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Gibbs
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Graves (MO)
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hunter
     Issa
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jordan
     Kelly (MS)
     King (IA)
     Labrador
     Lamborn
     Latta
     Loudermilk
     Luetkemeyer
     Marchant
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McSally
     Meadows
     Messer
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Noem
     Norman
     Olson
     Palmer
     Pearce
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Posey
     Ratcliffe
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (TX)
     Stewart
     Taylor
     Trott
     Wagner
     Walorski
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (IA)

                               NOES--293

     Abraham
     Adams
     Aguilar
     Amodei
     Barletta
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Bishop (MI)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Bost
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brady (TX)
     Brooks (IN)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Buchanan
     Bucshon
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Calvert
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Cole
     Collins (NY)
     Comstock
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cook
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costello (PA)
     Courtney
     Cramer
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     Davis, Rodney
     DeFazio
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Diaz-Balart
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Donovan
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Estes (KS)
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Faso
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Fortenberry
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Frelinghuysen
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gianforte
     Gohmert
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Goodlatte
     Gottheimer
     Granger
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Griffith
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Handel
     Harper
     Hastings
     Heck
     Herrera Beutler
     Higgins (NY)
     Hill
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Hultgren
     Hurd
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Jones
     Joyce (OH)
     Kaptur
     Katko
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kelly (PA)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Kustoff (TN)
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lance
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lewis (MN)
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Long
     Love
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lucas
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     MacArthur
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Marino
     Matsui
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McNerney
     Meehan
     Meeks
     Meng
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Murphy (PA)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Newhouse
     Nolan
     Norcross
     Nunes
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Palazzo
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Paulsen
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Poliquin
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rogers (KY)
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Rosen
     Roskam
     Rothfus
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Rutherford
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, Austin
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (WA)
     Smucker
     Soto
     Speier
     Stefanik
     Stivers
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Tenney
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tiberi
     Tipton
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walters, Mimi
     Walz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Womack
     Yarmuth
     Young (AK)
     Zeldin

                             NOT VOTING--12

     Bridenstine
     Costa
     Cummings
     Curbelo (FL)
     DeGette
     Garrett
     Huffman
     Lieu, Ted
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Wasserman Schultz


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  2257

  Mr. GROTHMAN changed his vote from ``no'' to ``aye.''
  So the amendment was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


                 Amendment No. 38 Offered by Ms. Rosen

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from Nevada 
(Ms. Rosen) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which 
the noes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 200, 
noes 220, not voting 13, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 450]

                               AYES--200

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Amash
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brady (TX)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costello (PA)
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio

[[Page H7068]]


     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     Dent
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Fortenberry
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Kaptur
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Marshall
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McKinley
     McNerney
     Meehan
     Meeks
     Meng
     Mooney (WV)
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Murphy (PA)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Reed
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Williams
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth
     Zeldin

                               NOES--220

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Beyer
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Connolly
     Cook
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Denham
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Diaz-Balart
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Engel
     Estes (KS)
     Evans
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Graves (MO)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jones
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Katko
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     Long
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     MacArthur
     Marchant
     Marino
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mullin
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Norman
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Posey
     Ratcliffe
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Roskam
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tiberi
     Tipton
     Trott
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)

                             NOT VOTING--13

     Bridenstine
     Costa
     Cummings
     Curbelo (FL)
     DeGette
     Garrett
     Gohmert
     Huffman
     Lieu, Ted
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Wasserman Schultz


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  2300

  So the amendment was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
  Stated for:
  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Chair, on rollcall No. 450, I mistakenly voted 
``nay,'' where I meant to vote ``yea.''


                Amendment No. 39 Offered by Mr. Grothman

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Wisconsin 
(Mr. Grothman) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which 
the noes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 124, 
noes 295, not voting 14, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 451]

                               AYES--124

     Abraham
     Allen
     Amash
     Arrington
     Babin
     Banks (IN)
     Barr
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Buck
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Comer
     Conaway
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Davidson
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Ferguson
     Flores
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Gaetz
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Graves (MO)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hunter
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jordan
     King (IA)
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Luetkemeyer
     Marchant
     Marshall
     Massie
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McMorris Rodgers
     Meadows
     Meehan
     Messer
     Mooney (WV)
     Norman
     Olson
     Palmer
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Posey
     Ratcliffe
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Sanford
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (TX)
     Wagner
     Walker
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                               NOES--295

     Adams
     Aderholt
     Aguilar
     Amodei
     Bacon
     Barletta
     Barragan
     Barton
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Bergman
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Bost
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brooks (IN)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Buchanan
     Bucshon
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Calvert
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comstock
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cook
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costello (PA)
     Courtney
     Cramer
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     Davis, Rodney
     DeFazio
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Diaz-Balart
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Donovan
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Duffy
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Faso
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Fortenberry
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Frelinghuysen
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallagher
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gianforte
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Granger
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Handel
     Hastings
     Heck
     Herrera Beutler
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Hultgren
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Jones
     Joyce (OH)
     Kaptur
     Katko
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Lance
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Long
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lucas
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     MacArthur
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Marino
     Mast
     Matsui
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McKinley
     McNerney
     McSally
     Meeks
     Meng
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Moore
     Moulton
     Mullin
     Murphy (FL)
     Murphy (PA)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Nolan
     Norcross
     Nunes
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Palazzo
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Paulsen
     Payne
     Pearce
     Pelosi

[[Page H7069]]


     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Reed
     Reichert
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Rosen
     Roskam
     Rothfus
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Rutherford
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Schweikert
     Scott (VA)
     Serrano
     Sessions
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Shimkus
     Simpson
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (WA)
     Smucker
     Soto
     Speier
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tiberi
     Tipton
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Trott
     Tsongas
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walorski
     Walz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth
     Young (AK)

                             NOT VOTING--14

     Bridenstine
     Costa
     Cummings
     Curbelo (FL)
     DeGette
     Garrett
     Huffman
     Lieu, Ted
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Scott, David
     Shuster
     Wasserman Schultz


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  2303

  So the amendment was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


                Amendment No. 46 Offered by Mr. Grothman

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Wisconsin 
(Mr. Grothman) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which 
the noes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 139, 
noes 282, not voting 12, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 452]

                               AYES--139

     Abraham
     Allen
     Amash
     Arrington
     Babin
     Banks (IN)
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Buck
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Comer
     Conaway
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Davidson
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Ferguson
     Flores
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Graves (MO)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Jenkins (KS)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jones
     Jordan
     Kelly (MS)
     King (IA)
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     Loudermilk
     Marchant
     Marshall
     Massie
     McCarthy
     McClintock
     McHenry
     Meadows
     Messer
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Norman
     Olson
     Palmer
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Posey
     Ratcliffe
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roe (TN)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (TX)
     Stewart
     Taylor
     Tipton
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Zeldin

                               NOES--282

     Adams
     Aderholt
     Aguilar
     Amodei
     Bacon
     Barletta
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Bost
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brooks (IN)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Buchanan
     Bucshon
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Calvert
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comstock
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cook
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costello (PA)
     Courtney
     Cramer
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     Davis, Rodney
     DeFazio
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Diaz-Balart
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Donovan
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Duffy
     Ellison
     Emmer
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Faso
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Fortenberry
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Frelinghuysen
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gianforte
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Handel
     Harper
     Hastings
     Heck
     Herrera Beutler
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Joyce (OH)
     Kaptur
     Katko
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kelly (PA)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Lance
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Long
     Love
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     MacArthur
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Marino
     Mast
     Matsui
     McCaul
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McNerney
     McSally
     Meehan
     Meeks
     Meng
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Murphy (PA)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Nolan
     Norcross
     Nunes
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Palazzo
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Paulsen
     Payne
     Pearce
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Reed
     Reichert
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Roby
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Rosen
     Roskam
     Rothfus
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Rutherford
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (WA)
     Smucker
     Soto
     Speier
     Stefanik
     Stivers
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Tenney
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tiberi
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Trott
     Tsongas
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walden
     Walz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)

                             NOT VOTING--12

     Bridenstine
     Costa
     Cummings
     Curbelo (FL)
     DeGette
     Garrett
     Huffman
     Lieu, Ted
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Wasserman Schultz


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  2306

  So the amendment was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


              Amendment No. 51 Offered by Mr. King of Iowa

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Iowa (Mr. 
King) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which the noes 
prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 180, 
noes 241, not voting 12, as follows

                             [Roll No. 453]

                               AYES--180

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Davidson
     Dent
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Ferguson
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie

[[Page H7070]]


     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jones
     Jordan
     Kelly (MS)
     King (IA)
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Latta
     Long
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Noem
     Norman
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Posey
     Ratcliffe
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stewart
     Taylor
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tipton
     Trott
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (IA)

                               NOES--241

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Barletta
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Bost
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bucshon
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cook
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costello (PA)
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     Davis, Rodney
     DeFazio
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     Denham
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Diaz-Balart
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Donovan
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Duffy
     Ellison
     Emmer
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Faso
     Fitzpatrick
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gianforte
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Graves (MO)
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Joyce (OH)
     Kaptur
     Katko
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kelly (PA)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     LaHood
     Lance
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lewis (MN)
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     MacArthur
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Mast
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McKinley
     McNerney
     Meehan
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Murphy (PA)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Newhouse
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rosen
     Roskam
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, Austin
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Stefanik
     Stivers
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Tenney
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Tiberi
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walden
     Walz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth
     Young (AK)
     Zeldin

                             NOT VOTING--12

     Bridenstine
     Costa
     Cummings
     Curbelo (FL)
     DeGette
     Garrett
     Huffman
     Lieu, Ted
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Wasserman Schultz


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  2309

  So the amendment was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


                Amendment No. 54 Offered by Mr. Grothman

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Wisconsin 
(Mr. Grothman) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which 
the noes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 140, 
noes 280, not voting 13, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 454]

                               AYES--140

     Abraham
     Allen
     Amash
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Buck
     Budd
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Collins (GA)
     Comer
     Conaway
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Davidson
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Flores
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Graves (MO)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hensarling
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Jenkins (KS)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jones
     Jordan
     Kelly (MS)
     King (IA)
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     Long
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Marchant
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McClintock
     McHenry
     Meadows
     Messer
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Norman
     Olson
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Posey
     Ratcliffe
     Rice (SC)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (TX)
     Stewart
     Taylor
     Upton
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Westerman
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                               NOES--280

     Adams
     Aderholt
     Aguilar
     Amodei
     Barletta
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Bost
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brooks (IN)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Buchanan
     Bucshon
     Burgess
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Coffman
     Cohen
     Cole
     Collins (NY)
     Comstock
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cook
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costello (PA)
     Courtney
     Cramer
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     Davis, Rodney
     DeFazio
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Diaz-Balart
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Donovan
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Duffy
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Fortenberry
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Frelinghuysen
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hartzler
     Hastings
     Heck
     Herrera Beutler
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hollingsworth
     Hoyer
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Joyce (OH)
     Kaptur
     Katko
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kelly (PA)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Lance
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     MacArthur
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Marino
     Matsui
     McCaul
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McNerney
     McSally
     Meehan
     Meeks
     Meng
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Murphy (PA)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Nolan
     Norcross
     Nunes
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Palazzo
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Pearce
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Poliquin
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Rosen
     Roskam
     Rothfus
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Rutherford
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David

[[Page H7071]]


     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (WA)
     Smucker
     Soto
     Speier
     Stefanik
     Stivers
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Tenney
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tiberi
     Tipton
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Trott
     Tsongas
     Turner
     Valadao
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walden
     Walz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wenstrup
     Williams
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth
     Young (AK)

                             NOT VOTING--13

     Bilirakis
     Bridenstine
     Costa
     Cummings
     Curbelo (FL)
     DeGette
     Garrett
     Huffman
     Lieu, Ted
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Wasserman Schultz


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  2312

  So the amendment was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


           Amendment No. 56 Offered by Mr. Smith of Missouri

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Missouri 
(Mr. Smith) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which 
the ayes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 225, 
noes 195, not voting 13, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 455]

                               AYES--225

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Costello (PA)
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Cuellar
     Culberson
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Diaz-Balart
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Graves (MO)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jones
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Katko
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     Long
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     MacArthur
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Meehan
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Norman
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Posey
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Roskam
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tipton
     Trott
     Turner
     Upton
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                               NOES--195

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Donovan
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Kaptur
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     King (NY)
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Reichert
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Taylor
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Tiberi
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Valadao
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walden
     Walz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth

                             NOT VOTING--13

     Bridenstine
     Costa
     Cummings
     Curbelo (FL)
     DeGette
     Garrett
     Huffman
     Lieu, Ted
     Palazzo
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Wasserman
     Schultz


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  2315

  So the amendment was agreed to.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


                 Amendment No. 58 Offered by Mr. Babin

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Texas (Mr. 
Babin) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which the 
noes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 173, 
noes 246, not voting 14, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 456]

                               AYES--173

     Abraham
     Allen
     Amash
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Brooks (AL)
     Buck
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Collins (GA)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Costello (PA)
     Cramer
     Culberson
     Davidson
     Dent
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Flores
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Gaetz
     Garamendi
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Graves (MO)
     Green, Gene
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Higgins (LA)
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Jones
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     Kind
     King (IA)
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lewis (MN)
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     MacArthur
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     Meehan

[[Page H7072]]


     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Nolan
     Norman
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palmer
     Pearce
     Perry
     Peterson
     Pittenger
     Poliquin
     Polis
     Posey
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Rothfus
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Sanford
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tiberi
     Tipton
     Valadao
     Vela
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Walz
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                               NOES--246

     Adams
     Aderholt
     Aguilar
     Amodei
     Barletta
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Biggs
     Bishop (GA)
     Blackburn
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brooks (IN)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Buchanan
     Bucshon
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Carter (GA)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Cole
     Collins (NY)
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Courtney
     Crawford
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     Davis, Rodney
     DeFazio
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Denham
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Diaz-Balart
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Donovan
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Emmer
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Fortenberry
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Frelinghuysen
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallagher
     Gallego
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Harper
     Hastings
     Heck
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (NY)
     Hill
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Johnson, Sam
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Kaptur
     Katko
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Lance
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Latta
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Long
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Mast
     Matsui
     McCarthy
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McHenry
     McNerney
     McSally
     Meadows
     Meeks
     Meng
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Palazzo
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Paulsen
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Poe (TX)
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (NY)
     Rice (SC)
     Richmond
     Roby
     Rosen
     Roskam
     Rouzer
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Rutherford
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Schweikert
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Stefanik
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Trott
     Tsongas
     Turner
     Upton
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Westerman
     Wilson (FL)
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yarmuth
     Young (AK)

                             NOT VOTING--14

     Bridenstine
     Costa
     Cummings
     Curbelo (FL)
     DeGette
     Demings
     Garrett
     Huffman
     Lieu, Ted
     Mullin
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Ross
     Scalise
     Wasserman
     Schultz


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  2320

  So the amendment was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
  Mr. CARTER of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I move that the Committee do now 
rise.
  The motion was agreed to.
  Accordingly, the Committee rose; and the Speaker pro tempore (Mr. 
Collins of Georgia) having assumed the chair, Mr. Marshall, Acting 
Chair of the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union, 
reported that that Committee, having had under consideration the bill 
(H.R. 3354) making appropriations for the Department of the Interior, 
environment, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending September 
30, 2018, and for other purposes, had come to no resolution thereon.

                          ____________________



