

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 200 (Thursday, December 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 200 (Thursday, December 7, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7898]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                            TAX REFORM BILL

  Mr. McCONNELL. Now, Mr. President, on another matter, yesterday the 
Senate formally voted to join our colleagues from the House to consider 
our tax reform bills in a conference committee. It is another important 
step toward delivering much needed relief to the men, women, and 
families we represent. Now the committee members will reconcile the 
differences between the bills. When they finish their work, Members of 
both Chambers will have the opportunity to pass this tax reform 
legislation and send it to President Trump.
  As I have said before, tax reform represents the single most 
important thing we can do right now to grow the economy and boost 
middle-class families. It will also incentivize businesses to bring 
investment and jobs home and keep them here. We want a tax bill that 
works for hard-working American families, one that can bring 
opportunity, help create new jobs, and keep more money in workers' 
paychecks. That means a typical family of four earning a median income 
could see a tax cut of approximately $2,200.
  This tax reform plan is our way of helping families get ahead and 
plan for their future. It has taken a lot of hard work to get to this 
point, and I wish to thank my Senate colleagues and our friends in the 
House and in the Trump administration for their efforts to 
fundamentally rethink our Tax Code.
  I look forward to the conference committee's report so we can 
complete our efforts and deliver relief to those who need it most.

                          ____________________



