

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 172 (Wednesday, October 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 172 (Wednesday, October 25, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6813]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               REMEMBERING MARJORIE ``MARGE'' COUNSILMAN

 Mr. YOUNG. Mr. President, I am saddened to report the recent 
passing of Marjorie Counsilman, a treasured member of the Bloomington 
and Indiana University community. Mrs. Counsilman passed away on August 
17, 2017, at the age of 93. I join her family and friends in mourning 
the passing of a beloved Hoosier, who was a dedicated mother and mentor 
to countless Indiana swimmers.
  Mrs. Counsilman, or ``Marge,'' as she was affectionately known by her 
colleagues, friends, and family, helped lead IU's swim team to a string 
of national and Big Ten titles. Marge was the wife of the late IU 
swimming coach, James ``Doc'' Counsilman, who led the Hoosiers to six 
consecutive NCAA championship victories, 23 Big Ten titles, 52 broken 
world records, 154 American records, and 106 individual NCAA records. 
In 2013, Marge and Doc were inaugurated into the Monroe County Sports 
Hall of Fame. Trophies aside, Marge was best known for her compassion 
towards her fellow coaches, customers at her family-owned restaurant in 
Bloomington, and the countless young swimmers she encountered over her 
decades of service. Her impression on the sport stretches well beyond 
the swimming lanes of Indiana. In 2004, she was honored by the 
International Swimming Hall of Fame as a ``Grande Dame'' for her 
leadership and influence.
  In 2012, Mrs. Counsilman received the Bill Orwig Award, which 
recognizes exceptional contributions made by nonalumnus to IU's 
athletic program. Marge was constantly hosting team dinners, running 
swim meets, and keeping the official records. Throughout her husband 
Doc's 33 years at IU, Marge acted as a substitute mother for all the 
collegiate swimmers, either providing help with assignments or offering 
her famous lasagna and pecan pie.
  In her memory, I would ask that we take a moment to reflect on her 
exemplary life and model of service. It is a privilege to honor 
Marjorie Counsilman, and I want to offer my condolences to her two 
daughters, Cathy Counsilman and Jill Morris, and to the many friends 
and family members she leaves behind. We will continue to honor her 
legacy and generous spirit.

                          ____________________



