

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 186 (Tuesday, November 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 186 (Tuesday, November 14, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H9183-H9184]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        THE REPUBLICAN TAX PLAN

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
the District of Columbia (Ms. Norton) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, it usually takes time to uncover a tax scam, 
but this graph tells the whole story of the Republican tax bill in a 
glance.
  If the House bill passes, in 2018, taxes will probably go down, taxes 
for individuals; and that is the blue line. Income taxes will probably 
go down. So far so good.
  But follow the blue line for average U.S. taxpayers after 2019 and 
you will see income taxes from 2020 to 2027, the end of the time frame 
for this bill, go up. In fact, from 2019 to 2027, we see tax increases 
for average taxpayers. There is the blue line, and we see these 
increases take off steeply for average taxpayers.
  Now follow the red line for business income taxes. Business income 
taxes, like individual taxes, start off by going down, too. That means 
tax cuts. There they go. By 2020, business taxes, like individual 
income taxes, are still mostly level or going down.
  Then at 2020, business income taxes increase--the same with 
individual income taxes. Both go up.
  Then comes 2024. This is the divide line; the great divide between 
business income taxes and individual income taxes. Business income 
taxes turn abruptly down--there they go; there is the red line--while 
individual income taxes, just as abruptly, turn steeply up. There is 
the blue line. Individual tax increases.
  The graph showing individual income taxes going up is this blue line, 
but it represents what is happening in blue States and red States 
alike.

[[Page H9184]]

  The bottom line for individual taxpayers--less than half of taxpayers 
get anything approaching a permanent tax cut, and an additional one-
third have their tax liability changed by $100 or less. That adds up 
for most Americans to tax increases.
  Business taxes go down. Here is the red line. Individual taxes, your 
taxes, you pay more, they go up, your taxes and mine.
  The Republican plan is a tax increase bill for average Americans. 
Defeat the Republican tax bill to keep taxes from going up for average 
Americans who pay taxes in our country today.

                          ____________________



