

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 153 (Monday, September 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 153 (Monday, September 25, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S5883]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     REMEMBERING CHARLES F. KNIGHT

  Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, today I wish to honor the life and 
contributions of a great man who passed away from complications of 
Alzheimer's on September 12, 2017, at the age of 81.
  Charles Knight, or Chuck, as he was known to everyone, might have 
been born across the river in Illinois and loved a second home in Glen 
Lake, MI, but he spent his life as a Missourian.
  In 1973 Chuck Knight joined Emerson. At that time, he became the 
youngest CEO to head a U.S. billion-dollar corporation. Within 5 years, 
the business press was hailing the leadership of Chuck Knight, and it 
was appropriate to do so then, and for the full 27 years, he served as 
Emerson's CEO. Because he was so well regarded, he was sought out to 
serve on a number of corporate boards, including Anheuser-Busch, AT&T, 
IBM, Baxter International, BP, Caterpillar, Morgan Stanley, and the 
Olin Foundation.
  Between 1973 and 2000, Emerson grew from a dozen divisions generating 
total revenues of $1 billion to more than 60 businesses with revenues 
totaling over $15 billion. International sales grew from 12 percent of 
the total to almost 40 percent. Emerson's record of increased earnings 
per share and dividends for each year of Mr. Knight's tenure as CEO was 
among the longest in U.S. business.
  Chuck was a passionate leader. In a 1989 cover story, Fortune wrote 
that his ``intensity level is about 327 on a scale of 1 to 10.'' His 
intensity, passion, and, most likely, his integrity, inspired 
commitment and loyalty from his management team, his employees, his 
competitors, and his friends.
  Chuck's passion extended to his adopted hometown of St. Louis, MO. He 
didn't just offer his support; Chuck provided his personal advocacy and 
leadership to many organizations, including the Matthews-Dickey Boys & 
Girls Club and the Annie Malone Children and Family Service Center, 
serving children in the city of St. Louis. He led the major capital 
campaign for Washington University in St. Louis, and for decades, he 
worked closely with the Olin Business School, where he helped fund the 
Charles F. Knight Executive Education Center. His efforts were always 
to make a real and lasting impact.
  Chuck married his high school sweetheart in 1957. Their joint 
philanthropy has resulted in countless benefits to the entire St. Louis 
area, including the Joanne Knight Breast Health Center at the Siteman 
Cancer Center and the Charles F. and Joanne Knight Alzheimer's Disease 
Research Center at the Washington University School of Medicine. Chuck 
and Joanne have been leading examples of the importance of giving back 
to one's community.
  Chuck is survived by his loving wife, Joanne, and his four children 
and their families. He will be remembered as a loving husband, a caring 
father, a passionate leader, and a great friend. He made a 
difference.

                          ____________________



