

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 166 (Monday, October 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 166 (Monday, October 16, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6397]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    TRIBUTE TO GERALD ROBERT ZELMER

  Mr. TESTER. Mr. President, today I wish to honor Gerald Robert 
Zelmer, a veteran of the Vietnam war.
  Gerald, I would like to thank you, on behalf of the State of Montana, 
and the United States of America, for your service to this Nation.
  Gerald, known by his friends and family as Gerry, was born in 
Bismarck, ND, on June 25, 1947.
  He married the love of his life, Dora Jean or D.J., on October 12, 
1968, in Worden, MT, at the height of the Vietnam conflict.
  Two months later, Gerry was off to war.
  He attended boot camp in Fort Lewis, WA, and then moved on to 
advanced infantryman training in Fort Eustis, VA.
  He deployed soon thereafter, serving proudly with the 101st Airborne 
Division out of Camp Eagle.
  Gerry served as a helicopter crew chief, ensuring that pilots and 
crews were safe as they flew aerial missions. His skills on the 
battlefield ensured that rotary-wing aircraft were fine-tuned and ready 
to take off for their missions.
  Gerry is a fixer and a problem solver.
  In Vietnam, he fixed helicopters and kept our birds in the air, 
covering our soldiers on the ground.
  When he returned from war, he worked as a maintenance foreman at 
Montana Sulphur and Chemical.
  It is his skills on the battlefield, his bravery and courage, and his 
service to our Nation that earned him these commendations decades ago. 
It is my honor to finally deliver them today.
  As a father to Carrie and Cody and grandfather to two grandchildren 
Sienna and Aden, he will get that long overdue acknowledgement.
  I have the proud honor of presenting you, Gerry, with the Bronze Star 
Medal for your meritorious service in connection with ground operations 
against a hostile force.
  I am also presenting you with copies of your previous awards: Army 
Commendation Medal, National Defense Service Medal, Vietnam Service 
Medal with Silver Service Star attachment, Expert Badge with Auto Rifle 
Bar, and sharpshooter badge with rifle bar.
  Gerry, these medals are but a small token of our Nation's 
appreciation for your service and your sacrifice. You are an American 
hero, and Montana is proud to call you one of our own.

                          ____________________



