

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 158 (Tuesday, October 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 158 (Tuesday, October 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6292]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, I have 12 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


                      Committee on Armed Services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, October 3, 2017, at 10 a.m., in open 
session, to receive testimony on the political and security situation 
in Afghanistan.


            Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs

  The Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, October 3, 2017, at 
10 a.m., to conduct a hearing entitled, ``Wells Fargo: One Year 
Later.''


               Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

  The Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate in order to hold a Business 
Meeting on Tuesday, October 3, 2017, beginning at 10:15 a.m. in Room 
366 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building in Washington, DC.


               Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

  The Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate in order to hold a hearing on 
Tuesday, October 3, 2017, at 10:30 a.m. in Room 366 of the Dirksen 
Senate Office Building in Washington, DC.


                          Committee on Finance

  The Committee on Finance is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Tuesday, October 3, 2017, at 10 a.m. in 215 Dirksen 
Senate Office Building, to conduct a hearing entitled ``International 
Tax Reform.''


                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, October 3, 2017, at 10 a.m., to hold 
a hearing entitled ``Nominations .''


                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, October 3, 2017, at 2 p.m., to hold a 
hearing entitled ``Nominations.''


          Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is authorized 
to meet, during the session of the Senate, in order to conduct a 
hearing entitled ``The Every Student Succeeds Act: Unleashing State 
Innovation'' on Tuesday, October 3, 2017, at 10 a.m., in room 430 of 
the Dirksen Senate Office Building.


        Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs

  The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, October 
3, 2017, at 9:30 a.m. in order to conduct a hearing on the nomination 
of John M. Mitnick to be General Counsel, U.S. Department of Homeland 
Security.


                       Committee on the Judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate, on Tuesday, October 3, 2017, at 10 a.m., in room 
SH-216 of the Hart Senate Office Building, to conduct a hearing 
entitled ``Oversight of the Administration's Decision to End Deferred 
Action for Childhood Arrivals.''-


                       Committee on Intelligence

  The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet 
during the session of the 115th Congress of the U.S. Senate, on 
Tuesday, October 3, 2017 from 2 p.m., in room SH-219 of the Senate Hart 
Office Building to hold a Closed Member Roundtable.


    Committee on Energy and Natural Resources Subcommittee on Energy

  The Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources' Subcommittee on 
Energy is authorized to meet during the session of the Senate in order 
to hold a hearing on Tuesday, October 3, 2017, at 2:30 p.m. in Room 366 
of the Dirksen Senate Office Building in Washington, DC.-

                          ____________________



