

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 200 (Thursday, December 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 200 (Thursday, December 7, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7911]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      CONFIRMATION OF SUSAN BODINE

  Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, the Environmental Protection Agency 
needs strong and experienced leadership. That is why I come to the 
floor today to speak in support of President Trump's nomination of 
Susan Parker Bodine to serve as the Assistant Administrator for the 
Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance at the EPA.
  Her expertise and her experience make her an exceptional pick to lead 
this important office at the Agency. She has extensive environmental 
policy knowledge from years working as a private attorney, a staffer on 
Capitol Hill, and in leadership at the EPA.
  From 2006 to 2009, during the Bush administration, she served as the 
Assistant Administrator for the EPA's Office of Solid Waste and 
Emergency Response. She also served as the staff director of the House 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure's Subcommittee on Water 
Resources and the Environment.
  Most recently, Susan served as my chief counsel at the Senate 
Environment and Public Works Committee. That is why I know Susan is 
committed to finding commonsense ways to protect America's land, air, 
and water.
  In this new role, she will work to help communities and small 
businesses comply with the law, while holding polluters accountable. 
Democrats and Republicans, alike, agree that she is the right person 
for the job.
  Mathy Stanislaus, a former Obama EPA Assistant Administrator, said: 
``Ms. Bodine understands both the internal side of the agency and the 
proper balance of enforcement'' and is a ``standup person.''
  Ben Grumbles, a former George W. Bush Assistant Administrator and 
currently Maryland's secretary of the environment, said: ``She's tough 
and fair and committed to public service.''
  Susan is an excellent pick to lead the EPA's Office of Enforcement. 
Taking on the critical task of enforcing our Nation's environmental 
laws is a big job. I can think of no better candidate for this job than 
Susan Bodine.
  Thank you, Mr. President.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Perdue). Without objection, it is so 
ordered.

                          ____________________



