

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 181 (Tuesday, November 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 181 (Tuesday, November 7, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7038-S7054]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     EXECUTIVE CALENDAR--Continued

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Arizona.
  Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to address the 
Senate as in morning business.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                Our Country's Middle East Foreign Policy

  Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, in recent months, the United States and 
coalition forces have achieved major gains against Iraq and Syria. 
Building upon the retaking of Mosul in July, U.S. coalition partners 
have liberated ISIS's former capital of Raqqa in Syria, the pocket of 
Hawija in northern Iraq, and, just days ago, the border town of al-Qaim 
in western Iraq. The so-called caliphate that terrorists claimed would 
overrun the Middle East is now a shadow of its former self--a shrinking 
swathe on a map once defined by an open reign of terror.
  Unfortunately, however, our challenges in the region remain daunting 
despite these hard-fought tactical victories. Our relentless focus on 
destroying ISIS, which is, of course, essential, has obscured a 
troubling reality: The United States lacks a clear comprehensive 
strategy that addresses the Middle East in all of its complexity.
  This is part of the unfortunate legacy the Obama administration left 
for its successor, but nearly 1 year into the Trump administration, we 
lack clarity on essential questions about our Nation's role, and we are 
left to observe as bystanders the intensifying symptoms of a collapsing 
regional order. While in some cases we are bystanders who take action, 
we do so with unclear and often unstated objectives.
  The United States has committed to the sale of over $100 billion of 
weapons to Saudi Arabia. We have announced an outline of strategy to 
counter Iran while providing only minimal detail. We remain 
conspicuously silent on the future of our role in Iraq and Syria beyond 
eliminating ISIS, as the Assad regime and its partners consolidate 
power.
  Our power and influence is diminishing in the Middle East as a result 
of our lack of direction, and the vacuum has been filled by forces 
working contrary to American interests. Consider the events that have 
swept the region in recent months.
  In Iraq, Iranian forces are working to sow discord as we recently saw 
in Kirkuk, where the presence of the Quds Force commander, Qassem 
Soleimani, exacerbated tensions among the Kurds and the government in 
Baghdad. Iranian-backed militias continue to gain power and aim to turn 
next year's election into a setback that drives American influence out 
of Iraq. Meanwhile, the scourge of ISIS remains despite recent military 
successes. The terrorist attack last week in Manhattan shows its 
persistent appeal. Its rise in the wake of U.S. withdrawal years ago 
demonstrates the danger of leaving before winning the peace.
  Across the border in Syria, the Assad regime, backed by Russia, Iran, 
Hezbollah, and an array of militias, has retaken most of the country, 
including many eastern areas that are strategically important. The 
consequences of the resulting humanitarian crisis have spilled beyond 
its border for years, destabilizing nations far beyond Syria and paving 
the way for radicalization. Forces that are hostile to both our 
interests and our values are shaping the future on the ground while we 
remain silent, focused on the immediate defeat of ISIS.
  I want to emphasize, we want to defeat ISIS. We are defeating ISIS, 
but that is not our only goal in the Middle East.
  On Saturday, the Lebanese Prime Minister, Mr. Hariri, resigned, 
claiming that he faced death threats from Iran, leaving the United 
States with one less valuable partner in a divided government in which 
Hezbollah plays a major role. I happen to have become friends with Mr. 
Hariri over the years. He is a good, pro-democratic, outstanding 
individual who basically was forced out of office.
  A web of Iranian proxies and allies are spreading from the Levant to 
the Arabian Peninsula, threatening stability, freedom of navigation, 
and the

[[Page S7039]]

territory of our partners and allies, including with advanced 
conventional weapons. Iran itself continues to menace its neighbors, 
use its sanctions relief windfall to harmful ends, test ballistic 
missiles, and spread weapons throughout the region.

  According to our allies and partners, just days ago, Houthi rebels in 
Yemen launched an Iranian-provided missile at the airport in Riyadh. 
Meanwhile, our Arab allies are embroiled in infighting and diplomatic 
disputes that weaken regional cooperation and coalition efforts in the 
face of these pressing threats.
  Saudi Arabia itself is in the midst of monumental change. The recent 
appointment of a new Crown Prince, the arrest over the weekend of a 
number of prominent Saudi citizens, and the Kingdom's ongoing war in 
Yemen, which has spawned a humanitarian crisis of its own, indicate a 
forcefulness that promises progress but also raises concern about 
internal stability and regional conflict. Ultimately, it could serve to 
strengthen Saudi rivals.
  In Turkey, President Erdogan continues to consolidate power, abuse 
human rights and the rule of law, and stifle democracy, while growing 
closer to Russia and straining the relationship with NATO. Meanwhile, 
Vladimir Putin's Russia casts a long shadow throughout the region as it 
reestablishes itself as a power broker hostile to American interests 
and wholly unconcerned about human rights.
  These challenges are daunting, confusing, and complex, borne of years 
of neglect, punctuated by crises and aggravated by weeks filled with 
the events of decades.
  The questions a comprehensive strategy must address are formidable: 
What are our political and military objectives in the region? How 
should we prioritize our pursuit of objectives given the numerous 
regional challenges, and how should we measure our success? What roles 
and responsibilities should our allies and partners play, and what 
support will they need to do so? What should be the size, roles, 
missions, and capabilities of U.S. forces in the region, whether in 
Iraq, Turkey, the Persian Gulf, or elsewhere? How will the United 
States facilitate humanitarian relief, stabilization, reconstruction, 
and political reconciliation where possible?
  These questions--many of which we require the President and 
Department of Defense to answer in the National Defense Authorization 
Act--are not academic.
  The United States is not involved in the Middle East because we labor 
under the illusion that our presence will solve every problem but 
because the stability of the region is vital to our national interests 
and international security alike. Middle Eastern instability tends to 
travel far beyond its borders. The region's importance to the global 
economy that Americans benefit from and depend upon cannot be 
underestimated, but if we keep sleepwalking on our current trajectory, 
we could wake up in the near future and find that American influence 
has been pushed out of one of the most important parts of the world, 
and that we cannot abide.
  The world faces an unprecedented array of challenges, of which 
instability in the Middle East is only one. Most importantly, the 
United States faces growing threats from Russia and China, both of 
which are eager to tilt the balance of power in Europe and Asia toward 
them rather than toward us and the majority of the world that favors 
greater freedom and openness.
  We need to prioritize these critical challenges by rebuilding 
military readiness, reorienting our force structure, investing in 
needed capabilities to deter near-peer competitors, and strengthening 
our alliances with like-minded partners and allies.
  If we neglect to consolidate our gains against ISIS and address the 
threats to American interests throughout the Middle East, our gains 
will easily be overtaken. As my friend and former Secretary of State 
George Schultz once observed, ``If you have a garden and want to see it 
flourish, you have to tend to it.'' We could find ourselves enmeshed in 
conflicts far more costly in lives, power, and opportunity if we 
neglect to care for a particularly frustrating part of the world.
  Our elected leaders must articulate a comprehensive strategy that 
reflects these judgments with specificity and detail rather than 
piecemeal offerings and tactical victories. Congress, with our 
constitutional role as a coequal branch of government, and, more 
importantly, the American people, deserve no less.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Iowa.
  Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, today the Senate will confirm Steven 
Engel to serve as Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Legal 
Counsel.
  The Office of Legal Counsel, which we refer to as the OLC in the 
Judiciary Committee, functions as legal advisor to the President and 
executive branch agencies, providing advice on complex questions of 
constitutional and statutory interpretation. The OLC essentially serves 
as the general counsel to the executive branch.
  Mr. Engel is well equipped to lead that office, both from the 
standpoint of academics and from the standpoint of background. Mr. 
Engel received his undergraduate degree from Harvard, his master's of 
philosophy from Cambridge University, and his law degree from Yale Law 
School.
  Following his graduation, Mr. Engel clerked for Judge Kozinski of the 
Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals and for Justice Kennedy on the Supreme 
Court. Mr. Engel joined the law firm of Kirkland & Ellis after clerking 
for Justice Kennedy. Mr. Engel's practice focused on appellate and 
commercial litigation matters.
  In 2006, Mr. Engel joined the OLC as counsel to the Assistant 
Attorney General at that time and was later promoted to Deputy 
Assistant Attorney General. There he provided legal advice to the 
Attorney General, to the White House counsel, and other executive 
branch clients on a variety of legal matters.
  In 2009, Mr. Engel joined the law firm of Dechert as a partner in the 
white collar and securities litigation group and later in that same 
firm as a member of the complex commercial litigation group.
  Mr. Engel's nomination has broad support across the legal community. 
The Senate Judiciary Committee received a number of letters in support 
of his nomination. One such letter is signed by former Attorneys 
General Mukasey and Gonzales, as well as former Deputy Attorneys 
General Filip, Morford, and McNulty. Other letters of support were 
received from his coclerks on the Supreme Court, a group of Mr. Engel's 
former colleagues, Yale Law School classmates, and Harvard Law 
Professor Jack Goldsmith. Mr. Engel also received an endorsement from 
the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association of the city of New York, which 
is the largest police union in New York City.
  Another letter from former senior government officials and legal 
officers of the executive branch, including Kenneth Wainstein and 
Michael Hayden, noted their ``enthusiastic support'' for Mr. Engel's 
nomination. Wainstein and Hayden wrote: ``We are confident that as head 
of OLC, Steve will render legal opinions with the highest level of 
professional integrity and according to his best understanding of what 
the law and the Constitution require.''
  Mr. Engel and I met this summer, and we discussed the importance of 
congressional oversight and the essential role played by Members of 
this body and the House of Representatives. He assured me that he 
agreed that each Member, whether or not a chairman of a committee, is a 
constitutional officer entitled to the respect and best efforts of the 
executive branch to respond to his or her requests for information. 
Further, he committed to review the May 1, 2017, OLC opinion on this 
very issue and to consider whether a more complete analysis of the 
issue is necessary.
  You may remember that my interest in this whole thing goes back to 
early in this new administration, when people working for the President 
and presumably speaking for the President said that the only oversight 
letters that would be responded to would be those from chairmen of 
committees. Now, you can imagine that leaves out

[[Page S7040]]

at least 30-some Republicans that would never get answers to their 
oversight letters, and it would leave out 48 Democrats that would never 
get answers to their letters. Consequently, most of Congress would not 
be able to do their constitutional role of oversight, making sure that 
the executive branch is in enforcing the laws and spending the money 
according to what we require. So I raised that issue through a 7-page 
letter to the White House, and they came and visited with me about it.
  I think they had some misunderstanding of what oversight was all 
about. They wrote a letter that said they are going to respond to every 
Member of Congress on oversight issues, which satisfies me from the 
standpoint of their intent.
  As I just said in my remarks here, Mr. Engel committed to review that 
May 1, 2017, OLC opinion on this issue and to consider whether a more 
complete analysis of the issue is necessary because every Member of 
Congress should be able to do oversight, and every Member of Congress 
ought to expect an answer to their letters from the executive branch of 
the government, whether they are a chairman or not, whether they are a 
Republican or not, whether they are a Member of the House or a Member 
of the Senate. I want to make sure that we follow through on this, 
although I will give this administration credit for almost totally 
reversing an opinion that they issued way back in May.
  The head of OLC is a highly important role at the Department of 
Justice, and it is a role whose importance is felt throughout the 
Federal Government. Just to show you how it is felt throughout the 
entire government, let me tell you that they issued an opinion in the 
previous administration on something to do with the work of inspectors 
general throughout the government, previously, or maybe originally, 
intended to say what the inspectors general could demand or not demand. 
We understand that the law passed in 1979 says that an inspector 
general can be entitled to any information he wants from that 
department, but they issued an opinion--the OLC person at that time--
along the lines of, well, there are some areas that maybe the head of 
the agency has to review, which means that the 1979 law isn't being 
carried out in the spirit. That is kind of an example because that 
opinion from the Justice Department was used by general counsels 
throughout the administration of Obama to keep Congress from doing its 
oversight work. That is how important the person who is the head of the 
Office of Legal Counsel is in determining what goes on in the executive 
branch of government--enough to stifle the oversight work of the 
Congress of the United States or the work of the inspectors general of 
each department.
  So I see Mr. Engel as a person who is going to be a friend of 
congressional oversight and, if he isn't, I am going to be very, very 
disappointed. He has satisfied me through his testimony before our 
committee and through the promises he made in letters to me and in the 
privacy of my office that he is going to do that. So we are ending up 
with a Mr. Engel who is, as you can see, very well qualified to take on 
such a role as Assistant Attorney General of the Office of Legal 
Counsel.
  I urge my colleagues to support Mr. Engel's nomination and confirm 
him to this important position.
  I yield the floor.
  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I rise in opposition to the nomination of 
Steven Engel to head the Justice Department's Office of Legal Counsel.
  On many occasions, President Donald Trump has made clear that he does 
not appropriately respect the rule of law in America. We have seen this 
many times over the last few years, from his bigoted and disdainful 
comments about Federal judges, to his firing of FBI Director Comey 
because of what the President called ``this Russia thing,'' to his 
shameful pardon of Joe Arpaio, a man convicted of criminal contempt for 
refusing to stop violating the Constitution, to his efforts last week 
to badger the FBI and Federal prosecutors into doing his bidding.
  As Republican Senator Bob Corker said last Friday:

       President Trump's pressuring of the Justice Department and 
     FBI to pursue cases against his adversaries and calling for 
     punishment before trials take place are totally inappropriate 
     and not only undermine our justice system but erode the 
     American people's confidence in our institutions.

  If my Republican colleagues want to restore confidence in our 
institutions of justice, they can start by making sure that only 
someone truly independent of Donald Trump serves in the vital position 
of Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Legal Counsel.
  The Office of Legal Counsel, or OLC, is not well known, but it is a 
critical part of the Federal government. OLC exercises statutory 
authority to provide legal advice that is binding on the executive 
branch. In addition to giving legal advice to the President and 
executive branch officials, OLC reviews all proposed Executive orders 
and Attorney General orders for form and legality. Essentially, OLC 
serves as a check to make sure that the President and his 
administration are faithfully executing the laws.
  There have been shameful moments in our history when OLC's leaders 
have lacked the independence and judgment to stand up for the rule of 
law. For example, in 2002, under Assistant Attorney General Jay Bybee, 
OLC produced the infamous torture memo that approved the CIA's use of 
torture techniques like waterboarding. When this memo became public in 
2004, the Justice Department was forced to withdraw it. Jack Goldsmith, 
a prominent conservative legal scholar who was acting head of OLC at 
the time said he was ``astonished'' by the memo's ``deeply flawed'' and 
``sloppily reasoned'' legal analysis.
  Then, in May 2005, OLC had a new leader--Steven Bradbury--and he 
secretly issued three new torture memos approving the use of 
waterboarding and other abusive interrogation techniques. Then-Deputy 
Attorney General Jim Comey strongly objected, saying the United States 
would be ashamed when the memos came to light, but Attorney General 
Alberto Gonzales overruled him.
  Already, we have seen troubling signs at OLC under President Trump. 
In January, OLC signed off on President Trump's travel ban Executive 
order, a decision that was kept secret from then-acting Attorney 
General Sally Yates. According to Ms. Yates, this was the first time 
ever that OLC hid its actions from the Attorney General, which it did 
even though OLC reports to the Attorney General. This Executive order 
was blocked by multiple Federal courts before it was withdrawn. OLC 
issued an opinion on Inauguration Day to allow President Trump to 
employ family members in the White House. This was a reversal of OLC's 
longstanding position on antinepotism laws.
  OLC is likely to face many critical legal issues in the coming months 
and years. We need OLC to serve as an independent check on this 
administration, especially since President Trump has shown an eagerness 
to denigrate the justice system and to criticize those whose views on 
the law differ from his own. Unfortunately, Steven Engel, the 
President's nominee to head OLC, has not demonstrated the independence 
and judgment that our country needs for this vital position.
  Mr. Engel has been a law firm partner since 2009. Previously, he 
worked at OLC under President George W. Bush from 2006 to 2009, rising 
to the level of Deputy Assistant Attorney General. Mr. Engel admitted 
that, while he was at OLC, he ``reviewed and commented upon'' a July 
2007 memo to the CIA Acting General Counsel which concluded that six 
CIA enhanced interrogation techniques were legal. These techniques 
included, for example, extended sleep deprivation by shackling 
detainees in a standing position while wearing a diaper for days at a 
time. The OLC opinion said that these techniques did not constitute 
cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment. The Justice Department's Office 
of Professional Responsibility concluded that this 2007 memo was 
inconsistent with the plain meaning and commonly held understandings of 
Common Article 3 of the Geneva Conventions. The OLC opinion was 
withdrawn in 2009.
  While at OLC, Mr. Engel also helped draft legislation that would 
become the Military Commissions Act of 2006. This law included a 
provision that suspended habeas corpus rights for Guantanamo Bay 
detainees, a provision that the Supreme Court struck down as 
unconstitutional in the Boumediene case.

[[Page S7041]]

  Additionally, Mr. Engel worked on President Trump's transition and 
Justice Department landing team, but, he would not tell the Judiciary 
Committee what matters he worked on, which is troubling.
  I asked Mr. Engel to provide reassurance that, if he is confirmed, 
OLC will operate independently from President Trump. His response? He 
said he was deeply committed to the independence of OLC and said, ``I 
demonstrated that commitment in my prior service in the Office, as well 
as in my activities in private practice and my volunteer work for the 
Trump transition team.'' It is hard for me to understand how Mr. 
Engel's work for the Trump transition--work that he would not even 
discuss with the committee--is supposed to reassure us about his 
independence from President Trump. To the contrary, I fear that by 
refusing to discuss his transition work, Mr. Engel has already started 
covering for Mr. Trump.
  Perhaps the most telling response Mr. Engel provided when it comes to 
demonstrating independence from President Trump is this. I asked him 
this question in writing:

       According to news reports, in a January 27th dinner, 
     President Trump asked then-FBI Director James Comey if Comey 
     would pledge his loyalty to President Trump. Do you believe 
     it is appropriate for a President to ask a Director of the 
     FBI to pledge loyalty to the President?

  His response? ``I do not have any knowledge concerning the 
communications between President Trump and former FBI Director Comey.'' 
This is not a hard question. I wasn't asking Mr. Engel about the 
specific conversation between President Trump and the FBI Director. 
Here is the easy answer that he should have given: It is wrong and 
unethical for a President to ask an FBI Director--or any Justice 
Department or FBI official--to make a personal loyalty pledge. If Mr. 
Engel can't get the easy questions right, what will he say when 
challenging questions come before OLC?
  For example, what if President Trump asks OLC to revise the 1974 OLC 
memo concluding that a President cannot pardon himself? Would Mr. Engel 
cave to the President's whims? Or what if President Trump asks OLC to 
justify some pretext for the firing of Special Counsel Mueller? Are my 
Republican colleagues confident that Mr. Engel would stand strong?
  Here is the bottom line. Many of my Republican colleagues talk and 
tweet about their concerns when President Trump disrespects the rule of 
law, but talk and tweets are cheap. If they are truly concerned about 
President Trump's actions, they need to vote in a way that serves as a 
meaningful check on President Trump. Our Nation needs the Office of 
Legal Counsel to serve as a check on the President's worst impulses. We 
need them to stand strong when the President berates the Justice 
Department and urges it to ignore legal norms and processes.
  I am concerned that Mr. Engel has not demonstrated the independence 
and judgment we need from the head of this critical office. Therefore, 
I cannot support his nomination.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from South Dakota.


                               Tax Reform

  Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, we are getting close to making tax relief 
for Americans a reality. Last week the House released its tax reform 
bill, and this week we expect the Senate Finance Committee to release 
our version. In the coming days, the tax committees in both Houses will 
review the bills, and then we will debate them on the floor and develop 
a final version.
  After years of economic stagnation, Americans are ready for relief. 
They are ready to keep more of their hard-earned money. They are ready 
to finally see a real pay increase, and they are ready for access to 
more economic opportunity. That is what our tax reform bill is going to 
provide.
  To start with, our bill is going to put more money in Americans' 
pockets by lowering their tax rates and doubling their standard 
deduction. Under our bill, a family making $24,000 a year or less will 
not be paying any taxes, and families making more than $24,000 a year 
will be paying significantly less than they are paying today. We are 
also going to help families by substantially increasing the child tax 
credit, and we are going to simplify and streamline the Tax Code so 
that it is easier for Americans to figure out what benefits they 
qualify for so they don't have to spend a lot of time and money filing 
their taxes.
  But that is only the beginning. Americans don't just want to keep 
more of their hard-earned money. They also want to be making more of 
it, but Americans have had a hard time doing that lately. Wages have 
been stagnant for years, and new opportunities have been hard to find.
  So in addition to reforming the individual side of the Tax Code, we 
are going to reform the business side so that we can give Americans 
access to the kinds of jobs, wages, and opportunities that will set 
them up for a secure future. In order for individual Americans to 
thrive economically, we need American businesses to thrive.
  Thriving businesses create jobs, they provide opportunities, and they 
increase wages and invest in their workers. Right now, though, our Tax 
Code is not helping businesses thrive. Instead, it is strangling both 
large and small businesses with high tax rates. Small businesses are 
incredibly important for new job creation. They play a huge role in the 
economy in my home State of South Dakota and other States all across 
the country, but the high tax rates that too many small businesses 
currently face can make it difficult for them to even survive, much 
less thrive and expand their operations.
  So we are going to lower taxes for small businesses so that they can 
grow and hire new workers. We are also going to allow small businesses 
to recover their capital invested in things like inventory and 
machinery more quickly, which will free up capital so they can use that 
to expand and create jobs. Right now it can take small businesses 
years, or in some cases even decades, to recover the cost of their 
investments in equipment and facilities. That can leave them extremely 
cash poor in the meantime, and, needless to say, cash poor businesses 
have a hard time expanding, hiring new workers, or increasing wages. 
Allowing small businesses to recover their investments more quickly 
will mean more jobs and more opportunities for American workers.
  In addition to high tax rates on small and large businesses, another 
thing that is decreasing jobs and opportunities for American workers is 
our outdated worldwide tax system, which is discouraging American 
companies from investing their profits here at home in American jobs 
and American workers. Having a worldwide tax system means that American 
companies pay U.S. taxes on the profit they make here at home as well 
as on part of the profit they make abroad once they bring that money 
back to the United States. The problem with this is that American 
companies are already paying taxes to foreign governments on the money 
they make abroad. Then, when they bring that money home, they too often 
end up having to pay taxes again on part of those profits and, I might 
add, at the highest tax rate in the industrialized world. It is no 
surprise that this discourages businesses from bringing their profits 
back to the United States to invest in their domestic operations, in 
new jobs, and in increased wages.
  Between 1982 and 2003, when the U.S. tax rate was much more 
competitive with those other countries, there were 29 corporate 
inversions where U.S. companies moved abroad. Between 2003 and 2014, 
when other countries were dropping their corporate tax rates and 
shifting to territorial tax systems, there were 47 such inversions.
  Our tax plan addresses this drag on our economy by moving from our 
outdated worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system. What does 
that mean? By shifting to a territorial tax system here in the United 
States--a move, I might add, that is supported by Members of both 
political parties--we will eliminate the double taxation that 
encourages companies to send their investments and operations overseas. 
Combine that with a reduction in our high corporate tax rate, and we 
can provide a strong incentive for U.S. companies to invest their 
profits at home in American jobs and American workers instead of 
abroad.
  Business tax reform is essential to reversing the economic stagnation 
that we have seen in recent years. The White House Council of Economic 
Advisers estimates that the tax reform framework that Republicans have 
presented will boost economic growth by

[[Page S7042]]

between 3 and 5 percent. That is good news for the economy. More 
specifically, however, it is good news for American workers, who can 
expect to see their incomes rise as a result. A study from the White 
House Council of Economic Advisers estimates that reducing the 
corporate tax rate from 35 percent, where it is today--the highest, as 
I said, in the industrialized world--down to 20 percent, which is more 
competitive with our competitors around the world, would increase 
average household income by $4,000 annually. Think about that. Reducing 
the tax on businesses in this country would increase average household 
income for families in America by $4,000.
  A Boston University professor and public finance expert, Larry 
Kotlikoff, found that lowering the corporate tax rate to 20 percent 
would increase household income by $3,500 per year on average. This was 
most recently confirmed by Martin Feldstein, a Harvard professor and 
former Chair of the Council of Economic Advisers, who noted in the Wall 
Street Journal this week that corporate tax reform is likely to boost 
household income by $3,500 per year.
  There are lots of analysts, lots of experts who are looking at these 
proposed changes to the Tax Code and the tax reform that we are 
attempting to get through the Congress this year and onto the 
President's desk, and they have concluded that not only will it reduce 
taxes--the tax burden, the amount of tax that is paid by middle-income 
families in this country--but the reduction in the rates on businesses 
will also increase the number of opportunities for better paying jobs 
and higher wages and it will raise that annual income--that average 
household income--that is so desperately in need of a boost.
  It has been a rough few years for the American economy and for 
American workers. I think all you have to do is to look at the numbers 
and you know that most Americans haven't seen a pay raise in almost the 
last decade. But with comprehensive tax reform, the next few years--and 
the next few decades, for that matter--can look very, very different.
  Republicans' tax reform legislation is going to provide direct relief 
to hard-working Americans, and it is going to create the kind of 
economy that will give workers access to more jobs, to better 
opportunities, and to higher wages, not just for the near term but for 
the long term.
  I look forward to working with my colleagues on the Senate Finance 
Committee, under the leadership of Chairman Hatch, to put the final 
touches on our bill and to take it up in the committee next week. Then, 
I hope we can bring that bill to the floor of the Senate and have an 
open debate, process amendments, and pass something through the Senate 
that we can conference with the House of Representatives, put it on the 
President's desk, and move our economy in a direction that will provide 
a brighter and more prosperous future for American workers and American 
families.
  It is time to give the American people some relief.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Maryland.
  Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Thank you, Mr. President.
  Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. President, I rise today to strongly oppose the 
legislation that has emerged from the House of Representatives that 
pretends to provide tax relief to middle-class Americans, but if you 
take a look at it and you look at the analyses that have already come 
out, what it really is, is another big tax giveaway to millionaires, 
billionaires, and big, multinational corporations.
  I believe we should do tax reform. We should take our Tax Code and 
clean up a lot of the junk that has gotten into our Tax Code that is 
not there for good public policy reasons and is there because someone 
had a high-powered lobbyist. We need to clean up our Tax Code, we need 
to reform our Tax Code, and we need to do it in a way that helps the 
middle class and doesn't add more big breaks for big corporations.
  Unfortunately, this Republican plan does the opposite of tax reform. 
What it does is doubles down on big tax breaks for big corporations and 
the superwealthy.
  There is a headline today based on the analysis. The New York Times 
looked at it. ``Republican Plan Would Raise Taxes on Millions'' of 
middle-class families. I can tell you that is very true in my State of 
Maryland. In fact, it is going to be true in States throughout the 
United States of America. We are going to see millions of middle-class 
families paying more under this plan. In fact, this analysis that is 
discussed in the Times found that 45 percent of middle-class families 
will see a tax increase under this plan once it is fully implemented. 
That means that families making between roughly $50,000 a year and 
$160,000 a year--about half of them are going to end up paying higher 
taxes under the Republican plan.
  Here is one of the double standards that you see continuing 
throughout the Republican tax plan: Big corporations not only get big 
tax cuts--$1.5 trillion--but they are going to go on forever. In 
middle-class families, many people will see an immediate tax increase. 
Others will initially see a little tax cut. But for individuals and 
families, it is the great disappearing tax cut--a little sweetener to 
make the bill look good in the early years, but the bill takes away all 
those tax cuts for middle-class families, on average, and then actually 
increases the burden on a family of four making $59,000 under the plan.
  For corporations, a $1.5 trillion tax cut over 10 years--permanent. 
For folks in the middle, many will see an immediate tax increase, and 
the tax increase will stay in place. Others will see a little tax 
decrease, but as the years go by, many of those are going to see their 
taxes go up. It is a major corporate tax cut financed in large part by 
millions of middle-class families paying higher taxes.
  Just to give a sense of how well the folks at the very top will do, 
there is a headline from the Wall Street Journal--this is not a 
Democratic-leaning newspaper--``Banks Sidestep a Big Tax-Plan 
Pitfall.'' Right here in the second paragraph of the Wall Street 
Journal article, it says this: At a 20-percent corporate tax rate, 
banks stand to be among the biggest winners from tax reform. That is 
according to S&P Global Market Intelligence. The five biggest 
diversified banks alone might have had tax savings of $11.5 billion in 
2016 at that rate--the biggest sum for any subindustry group tracked by 
S&P. The biggest banks do just great under this Republican plan. 
Middle-class families are left paying the bill.
  If you look at this on the individual side, the top 1 percent 
wealthiest Americans in this country are going to get an average tax 
cut of $65,000--that is per person, on average. If you are in that top 
1 percent, an average family will get a $65,000 tax cut. That means 
that 48 percent of the benefit of all the tax cuts in this Republican 
plan goes to the top 1 percent. Let me say that again and just flip it 
around. The top 1 percent wealthiest households are going to get 48 
percent of the dollar benefit of this tax cut. That doesn't sound like 
a plan focused on improving the situation of middle-class taxpayers. 
They are the ones who are going to have to finance many of those tax 
cuts for the very wealthy and big corporations.

  I know our Republican colleagues recognize what a vulnerability this 
is because our colleague, Senate majority leader Mr. McConnell, said 
about the tax bill in an interview last Saturday: ``At the end of the 
day, nobody in the middle class is going to get a tax increase.'' To 
understand what that means, he is saying that not a single middle-class 
household out there in the country is going to see their taxes go up. 
Well, I don't know what tax plan he is talking about, but it is 
certainly one that hasn't seen the light of day yet because the bill 
that has come out of the House will raise taxes on millions of middle-
class families, and that is a fact.
  Just the other day, in an interview on FOX News, Speaker Ryan said: 
``We are making sure every middle income taxpayer is a winner here.'' 
Every middle-class taxpayer is a winner here. Well, that is certainly 
not true of the plan that was just marked up in the Ways and Means 
Committee of the House because there are a whole lot of families in the 
middle class who are big losers under the Republican plan--in fact, 
millions of them around the country.

[[Page S7043]]

  I don't know what plan they are talking about. I am looking forward 
to seeing the Republican plan that doesn't raise taxes on any middle-
class family in the United States. That should be our policy. We should 
not be increasing the burden on middle-class families in order to 
finance a $1.5 trillion tax cut for big, multinational corporations, 
but that is the way it is right now.
  Homeowners are going to be especially hard hit under this Republican 
plan because a lot fewer homeowners will utilize the mortgage interest 
deduction, and the Republican plan also slashes the deduction for State 
and local taxes. In fact, they eliminate your option to deduct State 
and local income taxes. The result is going to be that a lot of middle-
class homeowners are going to pay a lot more. That is why the Realtors 
oppose this bill. These are the folks in our neighborhoods who are 
buying and selling homes. They are folks who have their ears to the 
ground in our communities.
  Here is what the president of the National Association of Realtors 
said about this bill: It ``threatens home values and takes money 
straight from the pockets of homeowners.''
  In fact, they had a study done by PricewaterhouseCoopers that said 
that if you are a homeowner and your income is between $50,000 and 
$200,000, adjusted gross income, you will see an average tax increase. 
They also predicted that home values across the board could drop by 10 
percent, and it is not clear when they would recover their value.
  The National Association of Home Builders is also opposed to this 
legislation because of the impact it will have on home ownership and 
the prices and value of people's homes around the country. They said:

       The House Republican tax reform plan abandons middle-class 
     taxpayers in favor of high-income Americans and wealthy 
     corporations. The bill eviscerates existing housing tax 
     benefits by drastically reducing the number of homeowners who 
     can take advantage of mortgage interest and property tax 
     incentives.

  I think all of us know that this is not some left-leaning group. We 
are talking about the National Association of Home Builders finding 
that the Republican plan abandons middle-class taxpayers in favor of 
high-income Americans and wealthy corporations. That is their finding 
based on their analysis of the bill.
  Here is the catch. It is that double standard again. Just as I said 
earlier, you have the tax cuts for big corporations going on forever, 
but there is much less tax relief for some middle-income taxpayers, and 
it takes effect early but then phases out. You also have a situation 
where, if you are a big corporation, you get to deduct all of your 
State and local taxes. In fact, if you are a multinational corporation 
and you are in China, you get to deduct taxes you pay to the Government 
of China. But if you are a household in Maryland or any of our States, 
you don't get to deduct the taxes you pay to your State and local 
governments. So you are paying taxes twice on that dollar--once to the 
State government and again to Uncle Sam out of the same dollar.
  Fitch Ratings looked at this and concluded that it will put dramatic 
strains on State and local budgets since people in those States are not 
going to be able to take those tax deductions. Either you are going to 
see dramatic cuts to school funding or healthcare, or you are going to 
see State and local governments raise the property taxes in those 
States. So you get hit coming and going if you are a middle-class 
homeowner.
  This also damages our economic development efforts in many parts of 
our country. It repeals the new markets tax credit. While it doesn't 
get rid of what President Trump said was a huge giveaway, the hedge 
fund loopholes--I can't remember how many times during the Presidential 
campaign Candidate Trump talked about how the hedge fund tax break was 
a total giveaway. That is not eliminated in this Republican bill. They 
keep the big hedge fund loopholes, but here is what they get rid of. 
They get rid of the ability of people with high medical expenses to 
deduct those expenses from their taxes.
  They even take away the additional standard deduction that currently 
applies to taxpayers who are at least 65 years of age or who are blind. 
There are many folks who are in that category who are also going to see 
their taxes go up. Seniors are going to see their taxes go up, which is 
why the AARP has raised the alarm about that provision and others.
  While they keep the big hedge fund loopholes, they get rid of the 
ability of families who adopt children to take a tax credit to help 
cover the costs of adoption.
  They get rid of provisions of the Tax Code that help students and 
teachers and schools. If you are a teacher who has been spending money 
to buy textbooks and other materials for your class, you used to be 
able to deduct the costs of what you are buying to help your kids. They 
take that away in the same bill that they give big corporations a big 
$1.5 trillion tax break. If you are a student who has been struggling 
to afford college bills, you no longer get to deduct the interest on 
your student loans.

  If you are an employer who is currently receiving an incentive to 
employ veterans who have served our country, sorry, that is gone too.
  So I want to get this straight. You are going to take away the 
ability of people with high medical expenses to take a deduction. You 
are going to take away the ability of college graduates to take a 
deduction so that their expenses are more affordable. You are going to 
take away the ability of people to get the adoption tax credit. And you 
are going to take away incentives for people to hire our veterans. But 
you are going to keep the hedge fund loophole and you are going to give 
a $1.5 trillion tax cut to big corporations. That is what this bill is 
all about.
  Finally--and I am going to talk about this at greater length some 
other time--look at the international tax provisions in this Republican 
bill and how they are structured. I really urge my colleagues to take a 
look at this. They actually increase the incentives for U.S.-based 
businesses and companies to move their operations overseas. That is for 
two reasons. No. 1 is that when you reduce the international tax 
rates--when you say, essentially, that a U.S. corporation that moves 
its jobs overseas now just pays the tax in that country and has no U.S. 
tax obligation; we, under this bill, are at 20 percent--you still have 
an incentive, obviously, to move your operations to a very low tax 
place like the Cayman Islands.
  But, then, there is an effort to address that issue in this bill. The 
problem is the effort to address that provision doesn't work at all. 
Here is the current situation: A lot of corporations try to park what 
are known as their intangible assets in the Cayman Islands or other tax 
havens. These are things like the value of patents. You make a great 
discovery, and you get a patent from the U.S. Patent Office, and you 
make royalties off of that patent. Then, you have a lot of good 
lawyers, and essentially you park that patent in the Cayman Islands. 
That really has no tax obligations, so all the profits that derive from 
that patent are not subject to any tax--or maybe 1 or 2 percent tax.
  So in this Republican bill, there is an effort to try to address that 
issue--at least it pretends to address the issue--but the problem is 
that it doesn't.
  Here is what they say. They say: Well, we are going to catch you if 
you park your money in a place like the Cayman Islands because we are 
going to have a tax of 10 percent--a foreign high-return tax is what 
they call it. The way they determine whether you are making an excess 
profit is you look at your tangible assets in that country and you 
determine whether the profit you have made is over 8 percent. That is 
the way it approximately adds up under this bill. But here is the 
problem: It is an average international minimum tax, not a per-country 
minimum tax.
  So let me tell my colleagues what a company that wants to reduce its 
tax obligation does. They move their company offshore. They take a 
company, say in Baltimore, MD, that is worth $100 million, and they are 
making a $5 million profit today here in the United States and they 
will be taxed at 20 percent, and then they have this profit from the 
Cayman Islands at $2 million. Under that previous provision I talked 
about--this effort in the Republican bill to protect against what they 
call

[[Page S7044]]

high-return tax areas--they would normally have captured some of the 
income generated from profits in the Cayman Islands. But when I move my 
company from Baltimore to, say, the United Kingdom, I actually then 
escape having to pay that tax on my monies in the tax haven.
  So the bottom line is that this Republican bill, because it has this 
average 10 percent minimum tax provision, is going to encourage 
American businesses and companies to move overseas. If that is not what 
the intention is, I urge my Republican colleagues to fix this right 
away. It hasn't been talked about much.
  There have been a couple articles recently about it. Gene Sperling, 
Kim Clausing, and others have gone through the economics of this, and 
it would make the situation a lot worse compared even to today in terms 
of these incentives.
  The bottom line is, in addition to this being a $1.5 trillion tax 
break for big, multinational corporations, paid for and financed by 
folks in the middle--which, even after you see the middle-class 
families pay more, results in a $1.5 trillion addition to the debt, but 
even after all of that--after the big tax giveaway to big corporations, 
it has an incentive to add insult to injury for them to move their 
businesses and factories offshore.
  I hope we will take a big step back and stop rushing a bill through 
as a matter of political imperative. We need to get this right. We 
should have hearings. We should have folks from all different walks of 
life and folks who will be impacted by this bill in many different ways 
come and testify to Congress about this bill. Then, let's get together 
on a bipartisan basis and actually do something that works for the 
American people, not something that is going to clobber the middle 
class and provide this huge windfall tax break to big multinational 
corporations, while encouraging them to suck jobs and factories from 
the United States overseas.
  We need to start again on this. I urge my colleagues to do that.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Hoeven). The Senator from Ohio.
  Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I don't know where to begin. I want to 
speak about the tax reform proposal but will start by responding to my 
colleague from Maryland--and he is a colleague and friend--to say that 
he must be talking about a different tax reform proposal than we are 
talking about because, frankly, so much of what he said is not 
consistent with the legislation that I have seen the House proposing 
and certainly not consistent with the legislation we are talking about 
here in the Senate.
  Let me start with his claim that there is a $1.5 trillion tax cut for 
big corporations. That is simply not true. You can look at the House 
proposal because it is now out. You can see the fact that it does have 
tax relief, and it has tax relief targeted at middle-class families. He 
is right about the fact that it has a lower rate for our multinational 
businesses, but he also knows that our current system is absolutely 
broken, and what is occurring is precisely what he is suggesting might 
occur if we were to change the code, which is companies and jobs and 
investment are going overseas.
  He talked about the fact that we haven't had hearings. Since I got 
elected to the Senate in 2010, we have had 70 hearings in the committee 
I serve on, which is the Finance Committee. I would encourage people to 
look at what we did 2 years ago. We set up five bipartisan task forces 
on tax reform. I cochaired one of them. It was actually on the very 
topic my colleague was talking about.
  I would encourage him to look at the working group paper on 
international tax reform and the need for us to go to a lower rate--20 
percent--to be competitive, to get just below the other industrialized 
countries, and then to have the opportunity to go to a new type of tax 
system that enables us to bring back the money that is locked out 
overseas. Unbelievably, there is $2.5 trillion to $3 trillion of 
earnings that are overseas. Much of that could be brought back, and 
that is what this tax proposal does.
  Significantly, that report my colleagues will see was coauthored by 
two Members of this body, one Republican and one Democrat, because all 
of these task forces, these working groups, were bipartisan. My 
colleague in that effort was a Senator from New York by the name of 
Chuck Schumer, who now happens to be the Democratic leader.
  So I think there is a consensus, at least in the real world, about 
the fact that our current Tax Code is hopelessly broken and we have to 
fix it. And if you are against helping our companies to stay American 
companies, that must mean that you believe that they ought to become 
foreign companies, which is exactly what is happening. To me, it is an 
outrage that the U.S. Congress is allowing this to happen.
  Ernst & Young, which is a public accounting firm, recently came out 
with a study showing that 4,700 companies that have become foreign 
companies over the past 13 years would still be American companies if 
we had the kind of tax reform proposal that we are proposing. In other 
words, if you had this 20 percent rate I talked about, this competitive 
international system, you would have 4,700 more American companies 
here, providing jobs, making investments, contributing to their 
communities.
  It does matter that a company is headquartered here versus 
headquartered overseas. We have done an analysis of this. We have done 
an investigation of this. We have determined that when companies leave, 
they don't just change their headquarters, they take investment and 
jobs with them.
  I would refer my colleagues to the work of the Permanent Subcommittee 
on Investigations; again, bipartisan work about the fact that we have 
to fix this broken Tax Code.
  The Congressional Budget Office, which is the nonpartisan group here 
on Capitol Hill that gives us advice on the impact of tax reform on the 
economy, on deficits, on revenues, has a report which says that if you 
do lower the business tax rate to make these companies competitive--
again, the alternative is going overseas--the benefit of that goes to 
shareholders, goes to workers. They say in their analysis that 70 
percent of the benefit goes to higher wages and more benefits for 
workers.
  Think about it. That makes sense. If a company is not competitive, 
they can't pay the kinds of wages we want them to pay. We want to get 
wages up. They can't pay the kinds of benefits we want them to pay. We 
want to get benefits up.
  So although I hope that we can have a spirited debate about aspects 
of this legislation, we should stick to the facts. We should not 
attempt to make this yet another partisan issue in this town, where we 
are attacking something not so much on the merits but because the other 
side thought about it.
  I will tell you, when you look back historically, it isn't just the 
working group that Senator Schumer and I cochaired on this 
international front where we have to get this rate down. We have to 
become competitive. We have to save our jobs here. But look at another 
bipartisan effort that is talked about a lot and is not agreed to by 
all Democrats or all Republicans; that is, the Simpson-Bowles proposal. 
This was several years ago. They looked at the tax policy and deficit 
issues. Simpson-Bowles--totally bipartisan, supported by a bipartisan 
group of U.S. Senators who, at the time, were on that commission--said 
that we ought to go to this lower rate and territorial system. This is 
not a partisan issue or at least it hasn't been until now. Let's not 
make it one.
  Yes, it is true that there is tax relief in this proposal. The 
proposal the House has proposed--the proposal the Senate is likely to 
propose later this week--does have tax relief, and we believe that tax 
relief is appropriate.
  We believe we have to give middle-class families in my home State of 
Ohio and around the country a little break right now. Why? Because they 
are seeing their expenses go up, especially healthcare, but also other 
expenses. I say ``especially healthcare'' because that is the single 
largest increase in expenses; it is in the healthcare area--
deductibles, copays, premiums--but also on food, housing, and other 
costs, including tuition if you are trying to send your kids to school. 
These expenses have skyrocketed, yet wages are flat, meaning people are 
facing this middle-class squeeze.

[[Page S7045]]

  We hear a lot of discussion on both sides of the aisle about the fact 
that we want to help the middle class. One way to help is to help the 
family budget, to get a little relief to these families so they can 
make ends meet and not just live paycheck to paycheck.
  It will also help the economy. It will help get more money into the 
economy to buy that car, to buy that appliance, to help move the 
economy forward. It is part of this reform bill--yes, it is--and we are 
proud of it.
  We also provide some tax relief on the business side to help small 
businesses. These are the so-called passthrough companies. About 90 
percent of the businesses in America don't pay their taxes as 
companies. They are not corporations in that sense. They pay their 
taxes through their individual tax return. They are called passthrough 
companies. Some call them LLCs, subchapter S, or sole proprietors or 
partnerships. These companies tend to be smaller companies, they tend 
to be family-owned. They need a little help too. So the proposal does 
provide significant relief for those small businesses. In the House 
proposal and the Senate proposal, it is hundreds of billions of dollars 
out of the $1.5 trillion tax relief. We think that is appropriate.
  Finally, again, on the business side, it will help make companies 
competitive to get the rate down so they can attract investment into 
America rather than having that investment and jobs going out of 
America, which is what is happening now. There are 4,700 companies that 
would be American companies today if we had this tax proposal in place 
over the last 13 years, but we didn't, and we should learn from that. 
It is Congress's responsibility to act to keep that from happening in 
the future.
  That is what this tax reform is about. It is about three things. It 
is about a middle-class tax cut allowing people to keep more of their 
hard-earned money. We think that is appropriate in these times.
  It is about helping to make our companies more competitive because we 
want more jobs and higher wages. Part of dealing with the middle-class 
squeeze is to provide a little help with the family budget with tax 
relief. Part is to get wages up. When people look at this tax reform 
proposal--right, left, or center--they are going to say the same thing: 
This is going to incentivize more investment. Some think more, some 
think less, but that investment in a tight labor market, as we have 
right now, is going to result in more competition for these workers, 
therefore, pushing wages up. That is what we want. That is what this is 
about. It is exciting.
  Third is to level the playing field internationally so American 
companies will not be going overseas. That is the whole point. We are 
not doing this tax reform proposal to encourage companies to go 
overseas. We are doing this tax reform proposal to incentivize them to 
stay in America and to attract more foreign investment here in this 
country so an American company can pay that premium for a foreign 
subsidiary, rather than the other way around now, where American 
companies are not just inverting. We have heard this word 
``inversions,'' going overseas and buying a foreign company. They are 
actually being taken over by foreign companies.
  That is the reality. We can't let it continue. We have to stand up 
and be counted, stand up for the middle class, stand up for our workers 
who are now competing with one hand tied behind their back, whether it 
is a big auto company like in my home State of Ohio--I toured five of 
these auto factories over the last couple of weeks, talked to them 
about the tax reform proposal and how it would work. They gave me their 
input. It is going to help. By the way, it is going to help whether you 
are a U.S. company or a foreign company. If you are a foreign automaker 
here in America or you have other foreign investments, a lower rate and 
immediate expensing--in other words, being able to write off your 
investments and equipment as you make them--that is all good for you 
too. So it will have both, the desired effect of helping American 
companies be competitive but, also, if you have foreign direct 
investment in your State and your community, they should be encouraged 
to put more money in America rather than somewhere else. If you are a 
Japanese automaker and you are looking around the world asking: Do I 
put that next investment in China, do I put it in Tokyo, do I put it in 
Europe and Germany, or do I put it in America, you will like this 
proposal because you will want to invest and be part of this too. That 
will help us give this economy a needed shot in the arm.
  There has been a lot of talk--and I heard it again today on the 
floor--that this is going to be bad for the deficit. I think there will 
be about $44 trillion of new revenue coming in, estimated, over the 
next 10 years. Yes, out of that amount of money, we are suggesting a 
$1.5 trillion tax cut relative to the score--the budget--we have to 
use.
  What does that mean? About $500 billion of that is simply saying, the 
Budget Office says the existing tax policy in place is only temporary. 
Some of it is only temporary. These are the so-called extenders. We 
know that is unlikely because we have always pretty much made these 
permanent, including a big one called bonus depreciation, which is most 
of that. Right away we think the way it is scored is not fair so we get 
down to about $1 trillion in tax relief over 10 years, again, with $44 
trillion coming in.
  What does that mean? It means you have to have a little more economic 
growth than is projected in order to not have a deficit and actually 
pay down the deficit through more revenue coming in. I think that will 
happen. Why do I say that? Because the projections we have to use are 
very conservative. The Congressional Budget Office is what we are 
using, and we are obliged to do that, which is fine. It is a 
nonpartisan group. They are saying economic growth over the next 10 
years will average about 1.9 percent of growth. The average over the 
past 30 years is about 2.5 percent. So they are saying our economy is 
not going to grow as fast as it has in the last 30 years. We will see. 
In the last two quarters, the economy grew at 3 percent and 3.1 percent 
so they don't seem to be on track with where the economy is going right 
now.
  More importantly to me, these proposals are pro-growth proposals--
whether it is help with regard to the business rate, which gets it 
below the rate of other industrialized countries rather than the 
highest rate in the entire industrialized world, which is where we are 
now. We have the highest rate in the industrialized world, and we are 
getting it below the average. That will increase investment and 
economic activity and jobs and, therefore, revenue.
  If it is the immediate expensing,--again, where you can write down 
your investments right away--that will increase investment in jobs, 
according to all the economists who look at that. They may differ on 
how much.
  If you look at the international side, where we are going to bring 
back some of that $2.5 trillion to $3 trillion that is stuck overseas, 
that certainly is going to be invested here in this country and help 
with regard to economic growth.
  There are a number of provisions. I talked about the small business 
provisions earlier which will help small businesses to be able to 
innovate, to be entrepreneurial, which is what we need more of--more 
new starts. That is going to help.
  All of that together is going to help with economic growth. How much? 
Instead of the 1.9 percent conservative estimate they have made for the 
next 10 years, let's say it grows 0.4 percent more than projected. I 
would attribute at least that much to this tax reform proposal because 
of what we just talked about, but if you believe it is going to grow at 
0.4 percent more than projected; in other words, instead of 1.9 
percent, 2.3 percent--2.3 percent growth would be below the average 
over the last 30 years--then you will actually see the deficit start to 
come down because of this tax reform proposal because the revenue will 
be there, not just to make it revenue neutral, but beyond that we will 
actually pay down the deficit. We haven't done that in a while.
  Back in 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, we went through this before. We began 
to reduce the deficit annually. Do you know how it happened? 
Constraining spending helped, and that is part of our challenge in the 
Congress--how do we get our hands around the spending--but second is 
growing the economy. In that

[[Page S7046]]

case, the capital gains rate of taxation was reduced. Then, suddenly, 
in the late 1990s, about $100 billion of revenue that nobody expected 
showed up in the coffers. That is how we got to a so-called balanced 
budget a few years early because tax revenues were greater than 
expected.
  I believe this will happen again. I believe that when you look at 
this proposal, it is conservative in the sense that it says: Yes, let's 
provide needed middle-class tax relief. Let's also do these things to 
grow the economy. Let's assume that because of all this, we are going 
to be able to improve the economic performance that is projected.
  It is a pretty disappointing projection. Let's face it, 1.9 percent 
growth isn't great for any of us. It isn't great to deal with the 
issues of poverty. It isn't great to deal with the issues of 
entrepreneurship and innovation. It isn't going to help us to afford 
the entitlements that are growing. We need better growth than that, we 
want more growth, and I think tax relief is the single-most important 
thing we can do right now.
  Yes, we should have more regulatory relief. Yes, we should do better 
in terms of getting the cost of healthcare under control. People are 
concerned about costs rising so fast, and we haven't been able to 
grapple with that issue. Yes, we should do more on worker training. We 
have a skills gap in this country. We have jobs available, and yet we 
don't have the skilled workforce to take those jobs. Yes, we can do 
more in terms of helping grow the economy through education and other 
things, but the one policy area that is crying out for reform is our 
tax system. It is antiquated. It is out of date. It is driving jobs 
overseas. It makes no sense. It can be simplified, and this simplifies 
the Tax Code. It can be made more fair, and this makes it more fair by 
helping the middle class more. It can encourage economic growth, and it 
does so through small business relief and relief for our multinational 
companies. It can help bring back trillions of dollars stuck overseas. 
That is what this does. That is the whole idea here.
  I am excited about this opportunity. The House of Representatives is 
working on their legislation now in committee. Next week, that will 
shift to the Senate and the Senate Committee on Finance. We will have 
the opportunity for an open process. As I noted, we have already had 70 
hearings in the Finance Committee just over the past 7 years since I 
have been in this Chamber. We have had working groups, including the 
bipartisan one I mentioned earlier, the five bipartisan working groups 
of that committee.
  We will have the opportunity at our hearing next week to have an open 
process--anybody can offer an amendment--and open discussion. We will 
have an interesting debate. It will be spirited. As we saw here today, 
we have some differences of opinion, but let's stick to the facts. 
Let's not make this partisan. Let's stick to the merits. Let's try to 
help the American people and our economy.
  Then we will come to the floor of the U.S. Senate, and the same thing 
will happen--an open process. Every desk you see in here represents a 
Senator who will have the opportunity, should he or she wish, to offer 
an amendment, to have a debate, to discuss the issue. It will be 
spirited at times, but, again, I hope it will lead to a result that 
actually helps do the things we were elected to do: to give our 
constituents--the people we represent--the chance to have a better 
life; to give middle-class families a little relief as they are facing 
this middle-class squeeze; to help grow this economy from the middle 
out, from the bottom up, from everywhere; to give us the ability to 
say, once again, that America is that shining example, that beacon of 
hope and opportunity for the rest of the world. That is what this is 
about.
  Let's not blow this opportunity. Let's get it done, let's get it to 
the President's desk for his signature before the end of this year, and 
let's make good on the commitments we have made to our constituents to 
help create a better economy and a better future.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The majority leader.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that 
notwithstanding rule XXII, at 4:30 p.m. today, Tuesday, November 7, 
there be 30 minutes of post-cloture time remaining on the Engel 
nomination, equally divided between the leaders or their designees; 
that following the use or yielding back of time, the Senate vote on the 
confirmation of the Engel nomination; and that if confirmed, the motion 
to reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table, and the 
President be immediately notified of the Senate's action; further, that 
there be 2 minutes, equally divided, prior to the cloture vote on the 
Robb nomination.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The bill clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                              Gun Violence

  Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I come to the floor today to call 
attention to the tragedies that have been caused by gun violence across 
our country, including the most recent attack, which left at least 26 
dead after a lone gunman opened fire at a church in Texas on Sunday. I 
join my colleagues in mourning for the victims and their families. Our 
thoughts are with them and all those affected by what happened in 
Texas.
  At the same time, we remember that these heartbreaking events came 
just 35 days after the deadliest mass shooting in our Nation's history, 
when 58 were killed and hundreds were wounded in Las Vegas last month. 
But as we look ahead, we cannot escape the fact that we can, and must, 
do more to keep our communities safer. While no one policy will prevent 
every tragedy, we need to come together on commonsense proposals that 
would save lives.
  I appreciate the words of my colleagues about mental illness and 
funding for mental illness. I think that is very important. I come from 
Minnesota, where Paul Wellstone was one of the leaders in making sure 
that mental illnesses got covered by insurance, and I think we need to 
do that and more.
  Another area where we have found some consensus in this Chamber is 
improving background checks. My colleagues Senator Manchin and Senator 
Toomey have made that clear, and I supported their background check 
legislation in 2013. But the fact remains that we didn't pass that bill 
in the Senate. We fell short, and it was a disheartening day.
  I remember having the parents of some of the Sandy Hook victims in my 
office that morning. Yet what happened that day--you have to contrast 
it with where the American people are. Consistently, whether it is with 
public opinion polls or whether it is when you talk to people you meet 
when you are at home, we have seen that Americans from across the 
political spectrum support commonsense proposals to require background 
checks, such as requiring background checks at gun shows. And they 
support that by wide margins.
  By the way, I look at this from a State that has a lot of households 
that have guns. We are a proud hunting State. And with every proposal I 
look at, I always think of my Uncle Dick and how he used to love 
hunting and sitting in his deer stand. I think: Does this hurt my Uncle 
Dick and his deer stand? And I don't think that the Manchin-Toomey bill 
would in any way. When I look at these things, I have to evaluate them 
that way because I know how many proud and law-abiding gun owners we 
have in our State. But I don't see that closing this gun show loophole 
by doing something more about background checks would hurt that hunting 
tradition in any way.
  When I talk to law enforcement around Minnesota, they stress the 
importance of having effective background checks to stop felons, 
domestic abusers, and people who are prohibited from having easy access 
to guns from having that access. If you remember, part of the Manchin-
Toomey proposal was to do more on sharing data and getting the data out 
there. These efforts should not and do not have to infringe on 
Americans' rights to own guns.
  Another sensible measure that came out of the tragedy in Las Vegas, 
which

[[Page S7047]]

we should take action on, is Senator Feinstein's legislation to close a 
loophole that allows bump stock devices to convert semiautomatic 
firearms into weapons that work like fully automatic guns. Law 
enforcement recovered 12 of these devices from the hotel room of the 
shooter in Las Vegas last month.
  I hope we can find some common ground. Some of our colleagues across 
the aisle have voiced some interest in this, and I hope we can do 
something when we know that would have been helpful in that shooting.
  Another area where we can find common ground is in taking action to 
protect those who are at risk of gun violence from domestic abusers. We 
were reminded of how important this is again this week, as reports have 
revealed that the gunman in the Texas shooting had a history of 
domestic violence, having been court-martialed for assaulting his wife 
and child in 2012. He was sentenced to 12 months of confinement and 
received a bad-conduct discharge from the Air Force. There are also 
reports of ex-girlfriends and others who reported similar conduct.
  I am sure the facts will be unveiled, but what I do know, regardless 
of what the facts show right now, is that this connection between 
domestic violence, stalking--those kinds of activities--and some kind 
of homicidal behavior is something that has been well established. 
According to recent research, more than half of mass shootings between 
2009 and 2016--that is 54 percent--involved some kind of domestic or 
family violence.
  Before I came to the Senate, I spent 8 years as the top prosecutor 
for Minnesota's largest county, so I have seen that connection. And I 
have seen the connection between a history of domestic violence or 
stalking that later leads to a more serious crime. That is why it is so 
important that we have protection orders, and that is why it is so 
important--as I look at the record of the shooter--that these cases be 
taken seriously, so you actually get that misdemeanor conviction on the 
record or you actually get a felony conviction or you do something 
about the stalking behavior when it is reported to law enforcement.

  When I was the county attorney in Hennepin County, we would have 
cases we would sometimes pursue when a victim had reported it and the 
police had gathered evidence--even if the victim later backed away and 
was afraid to testify--because we knew it had happened, we had the 
original testimony, and we had the evidence at the scene. We trained 
the police on getting the evidence at the scene so that we were able to 
actually make those cases. And you think about, in that instant, making 
those cases; no matter how hard it can be sometimes when you have a 
scared victim, it is really important.
  When I was in the county attorney's office, I made prosecuting felons 
in possession of firearms one of my top priorities. They weren't 
supposed to have guns, and when they did have guns, we had to take it 
seriously. I will tell you, some of the most disturbing cases that we 
saw involved people with a documented history of harassment--of 
stalking, of domestic violence--because you would see it building and 
building, and sometimes it would be against one victim, but often we 
would find out that there were others and that it was a pattern of 
behavior, and one horrible case would erupt into homicidal violence.
  There was one case I had heard of where a woman was shot to death by 
her boyfriend. He killed her and then killed himself while both of his 
kids were still in the house. It was ultimately his 12-year-old 
daughter who went to the neighbors for help. The worst part of the 
story is that it could have been prevented. In the 2 years leading up 
to the murder-suicide, the police had been called to the boyfriend's 
residence at least five times to resolve domestic disputes. Yet somehow 
the man, with a history of violence like this, was able to have a gun 
in his hand on the day he killed his girlfriend.
  I wish I could say that it was a rare tragedy, but the truth is, 
studies have shown that more than three women per day lose their lives 
at the hands of their partners, and over half--this is an average--of 
the women murdered by intimate partners in the country are killed with 
guns. Many times these tragedies begin with incidents of stalking.
  Research has shown that one in six women has experienced stalking 
sometime during her lifetime, and 76 percent of women murdered by 
intimate partners were first stalked by their partner. It is for this 
reason that a number of years ago I introduced a bill called the 
Protecting Domestic Violence and Stalking Victims Act to close some of 
these loopholes in our existing laws. My bill would make sure that 
those who are convicted of misdemeanor crimes of stalking are not able 
to buy guns. It would also expand the definition of a domestic abuser 
to include dating partners. The second part--when we had a hearing on 
this bill on these issues in the Judiciary Committee, even the 
Republican witnesses who were called supported the dating partner idea 
because so many States have started to do that.
  I introduced the legislation this time. It has been bipartisan in the 
past, but the Republican Senator on the bill is no longer in the 
Senate, although it is bipartisan in the House. But this time I 
introduced it with Senator Hirono and Senator Feinstein, the only other 
two women on the Judiciary Committee of 20 members. Congresswoman 
Debbie Dingell from Michigan is leading the same bill in the House, and 
her bill, as I noted, is bipartisan.
  In 2014, we had a hearing on my bill. As I said, even the Republican 
witnesses agreed that a major portion of the bill was a good idea. At 
that hearing, we heard from Sheriff Christopher Schmaling of Racine 
County in Wisconsin. He testified about the connection between stalking 
and guns being used in violence against women. In his testimony, he 
told the story of one woman from Wisconsin who, he said, had changed 
his career. This woman had endured 3 years of a violently abusive 
marriage before divorcing her husband. She then took out multiple 
restraining orders against him over several years. That horrible day in 
2004, he threatened her with a handgun, beat her with a baseball bat, 
bound and gagged her, and left her in a storage unit to die. Through 
what he described as some good breaks and some great luck, the Sheriff 
and his partner rescued Teri before she died. As a result of the 
ordeal, she had a miscarriage and had to have her toes surgically 
removed. In his testimony, the Sheriff talked about the importance of 
my bill's provision to extend the protections in current law to include 
dating partners so that abusers would not be able to buy a gun if they 
are convicted of beating up their girlfriend or boyfriend, regardless 
of whether they lived together or had a child.
  As the sheriff said, ``Dangerous boyfriends can be just as scary as 
dangerous husbands; they hit just as hard, and they fire their guns 
with the same deadly force.''
  This is a simple point that you would think we could all agree on. 
Sadly, we still have not been able to pass this bill.
  Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the sheriff's written 
testimony be printed in the Record.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:


written testimony of sheriff christopher schmaling--judiciary committee 
hearing: ``vawa next steps: protecting women from gun violence''--july 
                                30, 2014

       Chairman Whitehouse, Senator Grassley, Senator Leahy, 
     members of the Committee, thank you for hosting this hearing 
     today, and thank you for the opportunity to testify.
       My name is Christopher Schmaling. I am the sheriff of 
     Racine County, Wisconsin and have been a law enforcement 
     officer for 19 years. I am a conservative Republican, and I'm 
     here today to ask you to pass two laws that will protect our 
     sisters, our mothers, and our daughters by keeping guns out 
     of the hands of domestic abusers. The first bill is the 
     Protecting Domestic Violence and Stalking Victims Act of 
     2013, which will block abusive boyfriends and convicted 
     stalkers from possessing guns. The second is a bill that 
     would require criminal background checks for gun sales by 
     unlicensed sellers.
       More than half of the women murdered each year are killed 
     by intimate partners or family members. That's 48 women 
     killed by husbands and boyfriends each and every month. We 
     know that people with a history of committing domestic 
     violence are more likely to become killers--and we know the 
     role that firearms play: When a gun is present in a domestic 
     violence incident, the chances that a woman will be killed 
     increase by 500 percent.

[[Page S7048]]

       These numbers are tragic. As the top law enforcement 
     officer in Racine County and over my two decades on the 
     force, I've seen far too many of these tragic incidents 
     firsthand.
       I want to tell you about one such domestic violence 
     incident, a tragedy that changed my career. In 2004, Teri 
     Jendusa-Nicolai was violently abused and left for dead by her 
     ex-husband. Teri had endured three years of a violently 
     abusive marriage before divorcing him, and had then taken out 
     multiple restraining orders against him over several years.
       That horrible day in 2004, he threatened her with a .38 
     caliber handgun, beat her with a baseball bat, bound and 
     gagged her, and left her in a storage unit to die. My partner 
     and I were the lead investigators on the case, and through 
     some good breaks and some great luck, we rescued Teri before 
     she died. As a result of the ordeal, Teri had a miscarriage 
     and had to have her toes surgically removed.
       Teri is one of the most wonderful people I've ever known, 
     and has been a tremendous advocate for victims of abuse in 
     the decade since she was nearly killed at gunpoint. We've 
     become very close since then, and my eyes have been opened to 
     the reality of domestic violence and gun violence. I've also 
     become close with Elvin Daniel, who is sitting here beside me 
     today, and have been moved by his sister Zina's story.
       I'm proud to say we are the first county in the State of 
     Wisconsin to have a full-time domestic violence specialist. 
     We work closely with victims to figure out how best to 
     protect them. We've made this very intimate and very deadly 
     area a top priority for our department. So much of the crime 
     we face in Racine County is intimate partner abuse, and any 
     cop will tell you that domestic violence calls are the most 
     dangerous calls. The last thing a victim needs, and the last 
     thing my officers need, is for these dangerous abusers to be 
     armed with illegal guns.
       We respond to domestic violence incidents differently than 
     other calls, because these are ``heightened risk'' calls--we 
     send more officers, we go ahead and assume that guns will be 
     involved, because they are so often involved. Abusers 
     routinely threaten to shoot my deputies and I upon arrival at 
     domestic violence calls. In fact, according to FBI data, over 
     150 law enforcement officers have been killed in action while 
     responding to domestic disturbances.
       I'm proud to have worked on a great domestic violence bill 
     in Wisconsin in 2014 known as ``The Safe Act,'' a bill that 
     ensures guns are kept out of the hands of domestic abusers. 
     This bill was passed by a bipartisan majority and signed by 
     our Republican governor Scott Walker. This year alone, 
     similar bills were passed with bipartisan support in New 
     Hampshire, Minnesota, Vermont, and Washington. And in 
     Louisiana, where another Republican governor--Bobby Jindal--
     signed the bill into law.
       The first bill I'm asking you to pass today is the 
     Protecting Domestic Violence and Stalking Victims Act of 
     2013, S. 1290, introduced by Senator Klobuchar. This bill 
     would close a loophole that allows abusive dating partners to 
     buy and have guns--simply because they are not married to 
     their victims. And it would also block people with stalking 
     convictions from having guns.
       Why is this bill so important? I can tell you firsthand 
     that domestic violence is horrific, whether or not the abuser 
     and victim are married. When we send our police into danger 
     to respond to domestic violence calls, we send the same folks 
     regardless of the couple's marital status. Dangerous 
     boyfriends can be just as scary as dangerous husbands; they 
     hit just as hard and they fire their guns with the same 
     deadly force. In fact, according to FBI data, more women are 
     killed in America by their abusive boyfriends than by their 
     abusive husbands.
       This past March, just a couple hours from Racine County, 
     Cheryl Gilberg was killed by her ex-boyfriend in a domestic 
     dispute. The killer apparently shot Cheryl with her own gun, 
     after a struggle. According to news reports, she had been 
     seeking a restraining order at the time of the killing. But 
     in cases like Cheryl's, a restraining order isn't good 
     enough. If you've never been married to your abuser, federal 
     law likely will not stop him from buying a gun.
       If Congress passes this bill, federal law will be catching 
     up with the states. Among the 22 states that prohibit gun 
     possession by domestic abusers subject to restraining orders, 
     19 of those states already include abusive dating partners. 
     And 42 of our states have recognized that dating partner 
     abuse is a form of domestic abuse by allowing victims to take 
     out domestic violence restraining orders against their 
     boyfriends.
       The second bill I'm asking you to pass today would require 
     criminal background checks for gun buyers who shop with 
     unlicensed sellers. Current federal law prohibits many 
     abusers from buying guns, but only requires them to pass a 
     background check if they buy a gun from a licensed dealer. 
     This is a gaping hole in the law: It means a convicted wife-
     beater can slip through the cracks and get a gun simply by 
     finding a seller who does not have his own gun store.
       This is exactly what happened in Dane County: Tyrone Adair 
     was a domestic abuser who had been convicted of battery 
     twice, and was legally prohibited from owning a gun because 
     of a restraining order. So instead of going to a gun store--
     where he would have had to pass a background check--he found 
     an ad for a 9mm Glock in a local paper, and met the seller at 
     a hardware store. There was no background check, though the 
     seller did ask, and I quote, ``You're not going to go out and 
     kill someone, are you?'' Tyrone Adair used that gun on a 
     horrific murder spree, killing his two daughters--ages 1 and 
     2--and killing their two mothers.
       Background checks work. Sixteen states and DC already 
     require background checks for all handgun sales, and about 40 
     percent fewer women are shot to death by their husbands and 
     boyfriends in those states. And background checks save law 
     enforcement lives as well: about 40 percent fewer cops are 
     killed with handguns in those states, as well.
       These are the cops that risk their lives when they respond 
     to domestic violence calls, rushing into the middle of very 
     dangerous and very intimate situations. We see the terror 
     that abusers can create when they are armed. We see the 
     impact on their wives and girlfriends, and on their children. 
     We're major proponents of community policing in Racine 
     County, and if I have my officers on the street, working 
     closely with our residents, I want to know that our laws are 
     doing everything they can to keep guns out of abusive hands.
       So I'm here to speak for victims of abuse and to speak for 
     my cops. I've made it a priority to talk to victims. I've 
     seen the escalation over the years, from yelling, to battery, 
     to homicide. When an abuser has a gun, the victims say to me, 
     ``Sheriff, is not a question of if he'll use the gun to abuse 
     me; it's a question of when.'' And I recognize the value of 
     preventing even one gun from winding up in the hands of an 
     abuser: one gun may translate into one more lives saved.
       So today, I'm asking you to pass S. 1290, which will apply 
     the same rules to all abusers, regardless of whether they are 
     married to their victims or not--and will prohibit convicted 
     stalkers from having guns.
       And I'm asking you to require criminal background checks 
     for gun sales by unlicensed sellers, and ensure that abusers 
     don't get a free pass when they buy guns from them--often 
     strangers they meet online, at gun shows, or through 
     classified ads. The bipartisan bill introduced last year by 
     Senators Joe Manchin and Pat Toomey would do just that, and 
     it has already received the support of 55 senators.
       I'm asking you today to stand up against abuse by fixing 
     our out-of-date laws and passing this common-sense 
     legislation. Thank you for your time and I look forward to 
     answering your questions.

  Ms. KLOBUCHAR. I also note that a justice from the Supreme Court of 
Pennsylvania also testified on that day as the Republicans' witness. 
Even though he did not agree with everything in the bill, he also said: 
I absolutely agree that we should have boyfriends, dating partners as a 
part. We have it in Pennsylvania, OK? It is important. As the sheriff 
said, they can shoot, and they can beat up people just like anybody 
else.
  He was, actually, the Republicans' witness at the hearing. That is 
why I am happy that in the House of Representatives it is a bipartisan 
bill, but I would like to see it as a bipartisan bill here in the 
Senate. Maybe they will reconsider this now. Just as the NRA has said 
that it was looking at the bump stock issue, maybe they would be 
willing to look at this issue because they wrote kind of a fast memo on 
this--it is only a page long--back when we had the hearing and when we 
were gaining support for the bill. Remember that this is very narrow 
legislation that is focused on making sure that dating partners are 
covered and also people who are not charged but convicted of stalking. 
They wrote that the legislation ``manipulates emotionally compelling 
issues such as `domestic violence' and `stalking' simply to cast as 
wide a net as possible. . . .''
  I want to make this very clear--and I have never addressed this on 
the floor before--that this was really focused narrowly so that we 
could gain Republican support. I didn't really think the NRA would 
support it, but I thought that maybe they would be neutral, and, sure 
enough, their witnesses at the hearing supported it. We have had 
Republican Senators support it in the past, and we have also had 
Republican House Members support it. In going after the bill by saying 
that it manipulates emotionally compelling issues, well, I would agree 
in that I am sure that a lot of people shed tears when watching what 
happened in Texas, and I am sure that they have shed a lot of tears 
when they have heard the stories from people in their own communities 
of the victims, of the women who had died at the hands of domestic 
abusers after years of abuse. So if they want to call that emotionally 
compelling and manipulative, that is up to them, but I call it the 
truth.
  The other thing they said about this bill--and this was even more 
interesting--is the part about the stalking,

[[Page S7049]]

which is a major part of the legislation as well. That part of the 
bill, as I mentioned, just takes what we know as a signal for trouble 
in the future and violence in the future, and you would actually have 
to be convicted of stalking to have the gun protections apply.
  The example they used--as I said, it did not make any sense to 
include this, and it is the only example they used--was of two men of 
equal size, strength, and domestic status, joined by a civil union or 
merely engaged or formally engaged in an intimate social relationship, 
being subject to this prohibition for conviction of simple assault 
arising from a single shoving match.
  Actually, this part applies to the domestic partners. I think they 
are really taking this in a way that has surprised me since whom we are 
talking about are boyfriends and girlfriends and domestic violence, but 
they have changed it into a shoving match in a bar with people who 
might have some kind of social relationship. I just do not think this 
is a valid reason for my Republican colleagues to oppose this bill, and 
I am going to keep bringing this up because it does not make sense to 
me.
  They end by saying that, whatever the case may have been 30 years 
ago, domestic violence is now taken seriously by the legal and criminal 
justice systems.
  That was the reason they gave for opposing the bill. Really? Look at 
what we just found that happened in the last week when this was not 
just a minor example of domestic assault but was a felony. The person 
was court-martialed, and the person was, basically, detained for a 
year. Yet, somehow, this was not taken seriously enough through our 
entire system to show up on a record check. How about all of the 
reports that had been made by previous girlfriends and other people 
about his behavior, and nothing had seemed to come up then?
  As I mentioned, of the many cases that we had had in our office, even 
when the victim had gotten scared and decided that she had not wanted 
to pursue anything, we had felt that we had an obligation to her and to 
the other women we knew would come after her to pursue those cases, 
and, many times, we had done that if the police had been trained and 
they had been able to get the evidence at the scene. Sometimes there 
had been child witnesses and others, and we had been able to pursue 
those cases and win them, and we did.
  So to say that you don't want to support my bill because you think 
this system is so great, is working so well, and is being taken 
seriously by the legal and criminal justice systems after you saw what 
just happened in Texas, I do not think is true. This memo was written 2 
years ago. So I hope they will look at this again and consider 
supporting my bill.
  I conclude my remarks by sharing another story about yet another 
tragic shooting from my State. In this one I truly got to know the 
widow. She is the widow of a police officer in Lake City, MN. This was 
a case in which the officer, who was a wonderful man in a small town 
police department, responded to a domestic violence call from a 17-
year-old girl who was being abused by her ex-boyfriend. He went to the 
scene in the middle of the winter. He had a bulletproof vest on and 
everything because the domestic violence cases can be much more 
dangerous than people think, and officers know this. He was shot in the 
head, and he was killed. The 17-year-old girl lived. This officer 
literally gave his life to save another.
  There was a big funeral, and there were law enforcement people there 
from all over our State. I will never forget that funeral. I was 
sitting there in the aisle, and I had learned that the last time that 
officer had been in that church was to see his own kids--three young 
children, two boys and a girl--in a Nativity play. He had been sitting 
right in the front row of that same church, so proud of them at 
Christmas. Shortly after that, he was shot. At his funeral, there were 
those three children walking down the church aisle--the two young boys 
and the little girl in a blue dress that was covered with stars. I 
always think about that little girl in that blue dress that was covered 
in stars. This was domestic violence gone bad. He was a police officer 
who had shown up at the scene.
  When you look at these cases--we can look at the numbers; we can look 
at the stories; we can look at what has gone on on TV--you see this 
connection between domestic violence and stalking and then, later, 
either mass shootings or violence against one person, which happens 
much more often. It is not a coincidence. It is something that has been 
well documented.
  As we extend our sympathies and prayers to all of those who were 
affected by that tragedy in Texas and, of course, not too long ago in 
Las Vegas and in so many other communities and to all of those, of 
course, who were also victims of that act of terror in New York--we 
think of all of them--we also think: What can we do to make this 
better? In this case, when it comes to domestic violence and this 
specific issue that I know a lot about from my past job, we can do 
something. So let's pass this bill.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Strange). Without objection, it is so 
ordered.


                                  DACA

  Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, whenever a Higher Power is looking down on 
us as we move through our daily lives, I imagine that He probably 
doesn't see political borders. I imagine He probably doesn't care much 
about the distinctions that we create to tell the difference between us 
and others. He probably doesn't care much about walls and fences. He 
cares about us as people. He looks at us, at how we conduct ourselves, 
and at how we treat others.
  We spend a lot of time here talking about the arbitrary divisions 
between us, but in the end, when we face our Maker, it probably is just 
about how we treated those around us, whether we tried to make their 
lives a little bit better.
  So I am on the floor this afternoon to talk about a handful of my 
constituents who need our help, young people who we have labeled with 
the term Dreamers, who came to this country not by their decision but 
by the decision of their parents, when they were very, very young. They 
are Americans in every sense of the word. They are beautiful, beautiful 
young men and women, and they want us to see them as the beautiful 
individuals they are. They don't want to be labeled. They don't want to 
be put into the middle of a divisive political dialogue. They just want 
our help.

  We all hear from them because there is no State that doesn't have 
these kids. There are 800,000 who have officially registered under the 
existing law that provides them with protection. They are in every 
single congressional district.
  I thought it would be useful for my colleagues to hear from just a 
few of them today because they can tell the story of why we need to 
give citizenship, permanent protection, to these kids at the very 
least, if not their parents and others who have been waiting for a long 
time for comprehensive immigration reform. They can tell this story 
better than I can.
  Vania from Willimantic is a student at Eastern Connecticut State 
University. I want to read what she wrote to me. She said:

       I was born in Mexico, and I was brought to the United 
     States at the age of 3 and have been living in Willimantic 
     since. I am 19 now. I grew up in Willimantic, Connecticut, 
     and I consider it my home. It's where I grew up, where I went 
     to school, where I made friends, and where all my memories 
     are.
       As an undocumented student in the United States, you are 
     constantly unsure of what your future may hold, but not 
     because you're indecisive or unsure of what you are going to 
     do, but rather because you don't ultimately have power of 
     your own future. At a young age I always knew I wanted to go 
     to college; however, I also knew that because of my status, I 
     might have not been able to carry out that goal. However, I 
     didn't let it discourage me. I like many other undocumented 
     students did the best we could and constantly strived to be 
     the best at anything we did, and now, thanks to DACA, all 
     that hard work has finally begun to pay off.
       See, DACA is more than just a legal status; it is the 
     puzzle piece that many of us have been missing in order to 
     reach our goals. It has allowed me to get a Social Security 
     number, a driver's license, but more importantly, a higher 
     education.

[[Page S7050]]

       Growing up, I constantly had all my teachers say to me: Do 
     good in school, try your best at anything you do, stay out of 
     trouble, and you are guaranteed to go far in life.

  Let me step out of her comments for a second. Boy, if that is not an 
encapsulation of the American dream--``do good in school, try your best 
at anything you do, stay out of trouble, and you are guaranteed to go 
far in life''--I don't think I could find a better way to encapsulate 
what we hope is the story for every single child in this country.
  Vania said:

       So that is exactly what I did. Most other DACA recipients 
     did the exact same, but it currently doesn't seem enough for 
     this government. There is no longer a fight for a work permit 
     but rather a fight for my human rights. I am just as worthy 
     to live here and carry out my goals as any other natural born 
     citizenship. I have done my best, consistently contributed to 
     society in a positive way. This is my home. I deserve to feel 
     safe here, and I will continue to fight for that until I do.

  Mirka is from Wallingford, CT, and she is a Southern Connecticut 
State University student. She said:

       I came here from Mexico sixteen years ago. I am currently a 
     senior at Southern Connecticut State University, studying 
     bilingual education.
       We need more good people in bilingual education.
       I just started student teaching last week, but all that is 
     in danger. Besides being able to get a license and work 
     permit, DACA has allowed me to follow through on my passion 
     of becoming a teacher. It has given me hope that I have a 
     future career in education and that I can live my life 
     without fear of deportation.

  An in-need profession--bilingual educators. Somebody willing to 
devote their life to our kids needs our help.
  Faye in Norwalk says:

       I am one of the more than 800,000 DACA recipients in the 
     United States. I am from Trinidad and Tobago and have been in 
     the United States almost 19 years. I live in Norwalk, CT, and 
     I have lived there for about 16 years. It is home to me.

  You hear that over and over again: It is home to me.

       I am currently a Lead Radiology Scheduler, and I have a 
     second job working at Ulta, both of which I enjoy. My goal in 
     working both jobs is to purchase my first home.

  That is another very critical component of the American dream--home 
ownership.

       Growing up, I wanted to be a homeowner. I wanted a place 
     that I could call mine, and with DACA I saw that as a 
     possibility. Now I'm not sure when or if that would come 
     through, but I still will continue to work hard because in my 
     heart I know God is bigger than even this moment, and I know 
     that we will be victorious. Even in a land that would not 
     allow me to claim it as my home, I want to buy a house of my 
     own to call my home. One day I will be called American not 
     just among my undocumented community but by a Nation.

  I mean, listen, we have some very articulate people in this body, 
Republicans and Democrats. I am not sure that any of us could write 
something that poignant, that beautiful, and that compelling: I am not 
sure if any of that will come through, but I am going to continue to 
work hard because in my heart I know that God is bigger than even this 
moment, and I know that we will be victorious. Even in a land that 
would not allow me to claim it as my home, I want to buy a house to 
call it my home. One day I will be called an American not just among my 
community but by my Nation.
  There are 4,900 DACA recipients in just my State alone. I have met a 
lot of them. Frankly, maybe not everyone is as beautifully articulate 
as Faye, but, boy, they have done some very impressive things with 
their lives, maybe in part because they always knew that their status 
here was in jeopardy and they had to make the most of their time in the 
United States, not knowing when it would end, knowing that they had 
opportunities here in the United States that they simply would not and 
could not have if they ever went home, especially those kids who came 
here when they were 3 years old, going back home to a place where they 
might not even speak the language--they certainly know no one--a place 
where opportunity is farther off even for those who were born there. 
They worked hard, and they hustled a little bit more, knowing that they 
might be at risk of some day being pushed out of this country.
  They are Americans. Every single one of these students, these 
Dreamers, use the phrase ``This is home.'' And they want our help.
  I think this is a moral issue, first and foremost. It is how we treat 
each other. These people are our neighbors. They are our coworkers.
  Eight hundred business leaders--CEOs from companies such as Walmart, 
Target, Facebook, Pepsi, Kaiser--want them to stay here because they 
are their employees. They know how much they add to the economic bounty 
of this country. They wrote to us and asked for us to provide permanent 
protection for these kids.
  Seventy-five national colleges and universities, including all the 
ones in my State--Yale, Trinity, Connecticut College, the State 
universities--said the same thing. They want to educate these kids. 
They see them. They see what stellar students they are, and they just 
can't imagine the United States deciding to send 800,000 of these 
incredibly capable kids away.
  One hundred eighty-six civil and human rights groups running the 
gamut say: This is a moral and civil rights issue. Let these kids stay.
  Because of President Trump's decision to telegraph the end of the 
temporary protection for these students, the burden is now on us, 
Republicans and Democrats, to do something and do something soon. It is 
hard to describe the psychological toll on these kids right now. I 
mean, it was bad enough when they were pushed into the shadows. It got 
a little bit better when they got temporary protection. But now that we 
have put a clock on, now that they have revealed themselves to the 
world and put themselves on a list that can allow them to be targeted, 
there is a little bit of their soul that atrophies every day as they 
wonder whether we are going to come together and do the right thing. 
Part of the reason part of them is crumbling inside is because they see 
themselves as being made political pawns in a bigger game here.
  It would be so easy for us to decide to protect these kids. Just do 
it now. Don't wait until the end of the year. Don't wait until this 
issue is mixed together with all sorts of other must-pass legislation. 
Just come together right now and step up and give these kids some 
degree of confidence that they can be here.
  I have heard so many of my Republican colleagues say they want to do 
that. Why wait? Why push this up until the last minute? Do it right 
now. It is the right thing to do.
  In the end, whoever is up there does not look at borders. He looks at 
us. He looks into our soul. He thinks about how we treat those who need 
our help and our protection. And no one needs our help and protection 
more than these kids right now--5,000 of them in my State and 800,000 
of them across the country.
  So my plea is simple, Mr. President: Let's do this and do this now. 
Let's give permanent protection, citizenship, pathways to citizenship, 
to these beautiful boys and girls, men and women. Don't make this issue 
about politics. Don't make it about parties. Don't make these kids a 
bargaining chip in a bigger game. Just do the right thing. I promise 
you, if you do, you won't regret it.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Oregon.


                           Climate Disruption

  Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, climate disruption is the seminal 
challenge of our generation. We have seen the impacts occurring all 
around the world. We see it in the disappearing Arctic ice. We see it 
in the melting permafrost. We see it in the change of carbon dioxide 
and methane being emitted from peat bogs, disappearing glaciers, dying 
coral reefs, and certainly more powerful storms and raging fires.
  It is the responsibility of those of us in this generation, in this 
time, to take action. Indeed, communities across the globe are taking 
action. They are increasing the energy efficiency of buildings, 
vehicles, and appliances, and they are replacing carbon-polluting 
fossil fuel energy with renewable energy. This is such an important 
issue.
  How much do you know about the changes underway? Well, let's find 
out. Welcome to episode 7 of the Senate Climate Disruption Quiz.
  Our first question is, Since the year 2000, the rate of global carbon 
dioxide pollution has decreased dramatically, decreased slightly, 
stayed the same, or increased substantially? Lock in your answers.

[[Page S7051]]

  The answer is D, increased substantially. Many folks think that 
because of the actions being taken at the local level and by the 
community of nations and the Paris Agreement, that, in fact, global 
CO2 pollution has decreased dramatically, but it has not. 
The rate at which the pollution is occurring is increasing. So it isn't 
just the total level. For example, in 1990, we had 354 parts per 
million; 10 years later, in 2000, we were up to 369.64 parts per 
million; and in 2017, we were up to 408.8 parts per million. The levels 
are climbing, but the speed is increasing as well. In that period 
around 1990, we were increasing about 1\1/2\ parts per million per 
year; by 2000, it was about 2 parts per million per year; and now we 
are at 2\1/2\ parts per million per year. So this increase is 
substantial.
  As a community of nations, we have to not only proceed to decrease 
total carbon pollution, but first we have to get the rate of increase 
under control.
  This brings us to the second question: In September of this year, how 
many miles did a Proterra bus drive on a single charge? Did this bus 
set a record by going 270 miles, the distance between L.A. and Las 
Vegas, or did it set a record by going 600 miles, equivalent from New 
York City to Columbia, SC? Did it travel over 1,100 miles, the 
equivalent distance from Arizona to Arkansas? Did it manage to go 2,092 
miles, the shortest distance from the east coast to the west coast in 
America? Lock in your answers.
  The correct answer is C. It went 1,100 miles. The electric bus 
traveled 1,100 miles. This bus was a new version of the Catalyst E2. It 
is called the Catalyst E2 Max. It is produced by Proterra. It has a 
battery that is 50 percent larger than the previous version that is 
being sold commercially--that is the Catalyst E2. That Proterra that is 
currently being sold has a functional range for the transit agencies 
that are buying it of over 350 miles, about 350 miles. That is pretty 
impressive. But by having a battery that is 50 percent lighter and 
moving quite slowly, driving it slowly, they managed to go 1,100 miles. 
It is really an indication of the rapid transformation of this 
particular type of electric vehicle.
  Question No. 3: Warmer weather is contributing to what problem in 
major American cities? Is the problem caused by warmer weather transit 
delays? Is it exploding rat populations? Is warmer weather contributing 
to larger potholes or to longer tourist seasons?
  Well, the dramatic answer here is that the warmer weather is 
contributing to exploding rat populations. Rat breeding usually slows 
in winter, but if you have a mild winter, that doesn't happen.

  Since 2013, the pest control company Orkin has reported significant 
growth in its services--61 percent growth in Chicago, 67 percent in 
Boston, 174 percent in San Francisco, 129 percent in New York City, and 
57 percent in Washington, DC, right here where the Capitol is located. 
This is a major economic and health problem. Rats caused $19 billion in 
economic damage in 2000 from, among other things, eating away at 
buildings and infrastructure, and, of course, they are carriers of 
rodent-borne diseases like E. coli and salmonella. Plus, we just simply 
don't like having them in our cities.
  Let's turn to the next question, question No. 4. As of today, how 
many nations in the world are rejecting the Paris Agreement that 
addresses climate disruption? Is the answer 25 out of the roughly 200 
nations in the world or 12 or 3 nations or 1 nation? Lock in your 
answers.
  The answer is not 25 nor 12, and it is not 3. It is now just one 
nation that is rejecting the Paris Agreement. Now, until recently there 
were three nations. You had two nations that had not signed up and one 
nation that had said it was going to withdraw. The two that had not 
signed up were Nicaragua and Syria, and the one that said it was going 
to withdraw was the United States of America. President Trump made that 
announcement. But a short time ago, Nicaragua announced it was going to 
ratify the treaty, and today Syria announced it was going to ratify the 
treaty. That leaves the United States standing alone as the only Nation 
that is saying it is going to reject the Paris Agreement.
  Of course, this has a big impact on American leadership in the world, 
since we worked very hard to bring nations together to craft this 
agreement. The nations were so impressed that all of them in the world 
are now participating except us--except the United States.
  Let's go to question No. 5. Better management of our lands and 
forests could help reach what percent of the goals laid out in the 
Paris Agreement? Could better management of lands and forests 
contribute to reaching 5 percent, or one-twentieth of the goal; or 12 
percent, roughly one-eighth; or 25 percent, roughly one-quarter of the 
goal; or 37 percent, more than one-third of the goal laid out in Paris? 
Lock in your answers.
  The correct answer to this is D, 37 percent, or more than one-third, 
a surprisingly high number. An international study released last month 
said the natural climate solutions in guarding the management of our 
lands and our forests could help us reach more than a third of the 
goals laid out in the Paris Agreement. The paper looked at 20 
conservation and improved land management actions that help increase 
carbon storage or avoid greenhouse gas emissions in a cost-effective 
manner. The single most important factor among them is reforestation.
  Years ago I heard an individual say: Wouldn't it be great if we could 
just invent something that could pull carbon dioxide out of the air. 
Well, we actually have that already. It is called a tree. Growing trees 
is a very effective strategy in addressing carbon pollution.
  Of course, there are issues related to how we manage our forests and 
making them more resilient to forest fires, where they are less likely 
to burn and emit carbon. Certainly, there is how we farm and how we 
take care of other types of lands, including peat restoration and 
coastal restoration.
  Those are our five questions for this edition, episode 7, of the 
Senate Climate Disruption Quiz. These questions were ripped from the 
headlines in regard to the biggest test facing human kind on this 
planet. It is up to us in this generation to act.
  We are the first generation to experience this enormous range of 
impacts from carbon pollution and a warming planet, and we are the only 
generation that is able to head off disaster ahead by acting quickly 
now. We are racing the clock. There is no time to spare. So stay 
engaged and do all you can to help take this on.
  Meanwhile, as we learn more about technology and about the planet, 
all in the near future, I will bring you Climate Disruption Quiz 
Episode 8.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Johnson). The Senator from Connecticut.


                              Gun Violence

  Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, we are here in the wake of yet another 
senseless mass shooting. Again, we continue to watch in horror a 
community torn apart and families seeking solace and comfort, loved 
ones deprived of people close to them forever. We know about that 
feeling in Connecticut because we had been through it in Sandy Hook 
just 5 years ago, almost to the month. Next month will be the fifth 
anniversary.
  Every day in America in communities across this great country, there 
are senseless similar acts of violence one by one, person by person. 
Every day there is a mass instance of people dying of gun violence. The 
danger is that this kind of incident will become a normal way of life 
in America. We cannot allow ourselves to become desensitized. We cannot 
lose hope that action is possible. We cannot allow ourselves to succumb 
to this supposed normal. We cannot surrender to fear or complacency or 
hopelessness.
  Our hearts and prayers are with the brave souls who are enduring this 
unspeakable grief and pain. Again, we know about it in Connecticut 
because I remember well that afternoon at Sandy Hook and the days that 
followed when families hoped for numbness. They hoped that the rawness 
and unimaginable pain of that loss would leave. For some, it has 
lessened, but it will never go away for them or for the families in 
Texas or Orlando or San Bernardino or Virginia Tech. The list is a long 
one, and it should include those families in Hartford, New Haven, 
Stamford, Bridgeport and in other communities--not necessarily urban, 
but suburban and rural--around Connecticut and around the country that 
have endured this same grief.

[[Page S7052]]

  Numbness is not the answer. Action is the answer--honoring those 
victims by action. That honor is never too soon. That sense of grief 
will never go away. As much as our hearts and prayers go out to those 
families, we must also honor them with action.
  Our reaction is not necessarily aimed at the last shooting or the 
last death by gun violence. It should prevent the future ones. The trap 
of the gun lobbyists is to say: Well, what you are proposing wouldn't 
have prevented what happened last Sunday in Sutherland Springs, TX. But 
we do know that 26 people might be alive today if the U.S. Air Force 
had done its job. Twenty-six people might be alive today if the U.S. 
Air Force had reported this conviction by court-martial of the shooter 
to the NICS background system. Twenty-six people might be alive today 
if the U.S. Air Force had followed the law.
  There is a law that requires this reporting. It was passed in 2007. 
It requires all courts and all jurisdictions to make that reporting.
  The law here is also clear that the shooter never should have had 
access to firearms. There are laws on the books right now specifically 
designed to help prevent dangerous individuals with criminal records of 
exactly this kind from getting their hands on guns, and that includes 
anyone who has a domestic violence conviction in any court, including 
military court.
  As the author of that legislation, Frank Lautenberg, said at the 
time: It is a very simple principle. Wife beaters and child abusers 
should not have guns. The statistics bear out that principle now more 
than they did ever before. The mix of guns and domestic violence is a 
toxic one. Fifty-five percent of all homicides against women occur 
during domestic violence disputes, and a woman is five times more 
likely to die during a domestic violence dispute if there are guns in 
the house.
  The law also prohibits anyone who has been dishonorably discharged 
from the military or convicted of an offense carrying a sentence of 
more than 1 year from buying a firearm.
  The Department of Defense has a clear legal obligation to have made 
that report. By the way, that obligation includes military court 
indictments as well as convictions, because they may disqualify someone 
from obtaining guns.
  We know today that the shooter in Sutherland Springs, TX, also was 
involuntarily committed to a mental health facility after sneaking guns 
onto an Air Force base and trying to kill his military superiors. That 
person should never have been anywhere near a firearm, let alone having 
the ability to buy one from a licensed firearm dealer, as apparently 
occurred.
  The Air Force's lapse is shocking and inexcusable. It is a lapse that 
may have contributed to, if not directly caused, that shooting because, 
otherwise, that shooter would have completely lacked access to the 
firearms he used so lethally.
  The American people deserve to know why the gunman's conviction was 
not reported in the background check database. The American people also 
deserve to know what immediate steps the Department of Defense will 
take to ensure that every court-martial indictment or conviction is 
reported to the FBI when they disqualify someone from accessing guns.
  The American people deserve action. So I have written to the Defense 
Secretary James Mattis urging him to take immediate action to ensure 
that guns are prevented from falling into the wrong hands. That means 
taking specific, concrete steps to identify an individual whose 
convictions and court-martial disqualify them from obtaining a gun and 
making sure those records are submitted to the FBI. I want to know what 
system there will be for identifying those convictions.
  I am also planning to introduce legislation because enforcement of 
that law should be done and reemphasized and reinforced so that there 
is no question in any mind of anyone in the military about their 
obligation. They must ensure that people who are convicted of 
disqualifying offenses in military courts are reported to the national 
background check database so they are prevented from having access to 
these firearms by purchasing them from licensed firearms dealers.
  As of now, the background check law applies only to those licensed 
dealers. We need to extend it to include all firearms sales. We need 
other commonsense measures to prevent and stop gun violence, but at 
least the military can be compelled to honor this obligation. I know 
its heart is in the right place, and I know they will diligently reform 
what they need to do largely on their own because they recognize that 
obligation.
  We have an obligation, as well, to enforce all of these laws more 
diligently. As a law enforcement person, one who was the State attorney 
general for 20 years and the U.S. attorney before then, I am proud of 
the State of Connecticut for classifying domestic offenses so they can 
be disqualifying under the law. Connecticut is only one of a handful--
perhaps three States--that have that disqualifying classification, so 
the States need to do better as well.
  The simple, commonsense fixes to help enforce laws that are already 
on the books to keep America safe will enable the law to be real and 
effective. If it is unenforced, it is dead letter. It must be enforced. 
We need better enforcement, and we also need better laws.
  I hope my colleagues on both sides of the aisle will join in this 
effort, and I hope this new legislation will be bipartisan, just as we 
grieve together regardless of party.
  Thank you.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Michigan.
  Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, I first wish to thank my friend, the 
distinguished Senator from Connecticut, for his very important words.


                        Nomination of Peter Robb

  Mr. President, I rise at this point to say a few words about one of 
President Trump's nominees whom we will be voting on in a few minutes.
  The National Labor Relations Board is a crucial tool for protecting 
working men and women in Michigan and across the country. The right to 
collectively bargain, the freedom to be able to bargain for fair wages, 
good benefits, retirement security, safe and fair workplaces--all of 
these things depend on a National Labor Relations Board that works--
that works for people.
  Perhaps no person at the NLRB is more critical to protecting these 
rights than is the NLRB's General Counsel. When a worker believes that 
the law has been violated and brings their concern to the National 
Labor Relations Board, it is the General Counsel who investigates. If 
the employee is found to have violated the law or the freedoms and 
rights of working men and women, it is the General Counsel who takes 
action to make things right.
  Unfortunately, while President Trump talks a lot about having our 
workers' backs--he certainly said that a lot in Michigan--his actions 
speak much louder than his words. That is certainly true in the case of 
his choice for General Counsel, Peter Robb.
  Mr. Robb was voted out of the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions 
Committee in October without any Democratic support--and there was a 
reason for that. The reason is that during his career, he has shown so 
little support for working men and women across our country.
  When Dominion Energy's workers at the Millstone Power Station in 
Connecticut attempted to use their freedom to organize--one of the 
freedoms in America is to be able to come together, to be able to 
organize, to be able to collectively bargain on behalf of yourself and 
others to make sure you are able to get fair pay and a pension and safe 
working conditions. But when the people at the Millstone Power Station 
in Connecticut attempted to do that, Mr. Robb, who represented 
Dominion, delayed the election for more than 2 years. Not only that, he 
bragged about it on his law firm's website--making people who wanted to 
exercise their freedom to collectively bargain and to organize wait for 
2 years.
  Mr. Robb also was lead counsel on the case that led to 11,000 air 
traffic controllers being fired--people, again, who were part of a 
union and could collectively bargain for safe conditions and good pay 
and pensions. They were fired and barred from Federal service. It was a 
watershed case in the history of union suppression, in taking away 
people's freedoms.
  While he worked for a Reagan-appointed NLRB member, longstanding

[[Page S7053]]

policies changed to weaken the government's ability to enforce the 
rights and freedoms of working men and women.

  With stagnant wages and rising healthcare costs and worries about 
pension cuts and workplace discrimination, frankly, I know working men 
and women in Michigan and across the country have enough to worry 
about. They shouldn't have to worry that the person who is supposed to 
have their back is, instead, looking for ways to strip away their 
freedom to organize on the job.
  That is why I will vote no on Peter Robb, and I encourage my 
colleagues to do the same.


                               Healthcare

  Mr. President, I wish to turn now to another very important topic. I 
have been speaking about workers, and now I wish to speak about our 
children and standing up for our children.
  Every year, 9 million children receive health insurance through a 
very successful program called the Children's Health Insurance Program. 
Children from low- and middle-income families who do not qualify for 
Medicaid--working families--are able to receive healthcare through 
CHIP, and every year, 25 million people, including 300,000 veterans and 
7.5 million children, receive medical care from community health 
centers in cities and towns and rural communities all across Michigan 
and across the country. That is 9 million children who can see a doctor 
when they get sick or hurt, and that is millions of parents who don't 
have to lie awake at night, worrying about what will happen the next 
time their child falls, breaks an arm, gets strep throat, or something 
even worse.
  Thanks to Republican inaction, these millions of parents do now have 
to worry.
  It has been 38 days since the Republican leadership let funding 
expire for the Children's Health Insurance Program and community health 
centers--38 days and counting--38 days when we could have been working 
together to fund these important programs. Yet that didn't happen, even 
though they have bipartisan support. That is 38 days of telling 
children and hard-working families who use these programs that they 
don't matter as much as other things we are doing.
  For the longest time, the Children's Health Insurance Program and 
community health centers have received strong bipartisan support, and 
that is true today. If these programs--a bill that came out of the 
Finance Committee and a bill that Senator Roy Blunt and I have 
introduced--were brought to the floor, they would get strong bipartisan 
support--if we could get them on the floor.
  We are hearing from more than 1,000 organizations, including the 
American Academy of Pediatrics, the American Heart Association, the 
March of Dimes, and the National Association of Counties, all urging us 
to take up the CHIP bill and to pass it--the 5-year extension, which is 
so critical.
  Senator Hatch on the Finance Committee, of which I am proud to be a 
member, has worked with Senator Wyden, with me, and with others to put 
together a good bill, a 5-year reauthorization of CHIP, on a bipartisan 
basis, and 70 Members of this body, led by Senator Roy Blunt and 
myself, have signed a letter of support for continuing funding for 
community health centers. Senator Blunt and I, with eight other 
Democrats and eight Republicans, have put in a bill to do that.
  We know the support is there. The problem is, we cannot get it 
brought up on the floor as a priority for the Senate.
  As I mentioned, this crucial funding expired 38 days ago--more than a 
month ago. Over those 38 days, the Senate has taken up 54 record 
rollcall votes, Republicans passed their budget, and we have considered 
16 nominees. But we haven't considered over the past 38 days the 9 
million children who depend on the Children's Health Insurance Program 
to stay healthy and the 25 million patients who use community health 
centers.
  We might be 38 days late, but there is no time like today to make 
children and families a top priority. These programs are a big deal in 
my State. Before CHIP, too many hard-working families in Michigan 
couldn't afford to take their children to the doctor. Now, 97 percent 
of our children in Michigan can go to the doctor. Moms and dads can 
take their children to the doctor because of what has been put together 
around health insurance, making health insurance available in 
Michigan--the highest percentage ever--97 percent.
  Last year, Michigan's community health centers treated more than 
680,000 patients, including 12,710 veterans.
  Having access to health insurance and healthcare we know is life-
changing and even lifesaving.
  Just ask Jan of Davison, MI, whose daughter Suzi was covered by 
MIChild--what we call CHIP, actually MIChild--in Michigan. Suzi was 
diagnosed with ADHD as a child and later with bipolar disorder. In 
Jan's words:

       Without having access to quality health care, we would have 
     been lost. And thanks to MIChild coverage, we are able to 
     afford the help she so desperately needed.

  Today, Suzi is a high school graduate and plans to go to community 
college.
  Albert, a resident of Owosso, MI, knows the value of community health 
centers. He had graduated from high school and was taking college 
classes. He had a great full-time job with health benefits. He said 
that it was like a dream come true--until it stopped. Work dried up. In 
a matter of months, Albert lost his job, his insurance, and his home.
  He fell into a deep depression--and many of us would have done the 
same. But Albert was lucky. A friend noticed that he was struggling and 
urged him to visit Great Lakes Bay Health Centers. Within 2 weeks, he 
had a medical appointment; 3 days after that, he was speaking with a 
community health center counselor. As Albert said, ``It happened so 
fast, there was no time for me to fall through the cracks.''
  Today he is running a local business and has his confidence back. He 
has lost 50 pounds and stopped drinking. He has rebuilt his 
relationships with his family. And he is now giving back to the very 
clinic that changed his life, serving on the board of Great Lakes Bay 
Health Centers.
  All of the children and the people who receive coverage and care from 
CHIP and community health centers can tell their stories.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The time of the Senator has expired.
  Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, if I might just take 30 seconds to 
complete my remarks.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Ms. STABENOW. Thank you very much.
  Let me just say in conclusion that we can fix this. We don't have to 
put up one more day on the count chart. Today we can make children and 
families a priority by passing critical healthcare that has the 
bipartisan support to get it done, if we have the urgency to do so.
  Thank you.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. All time has expired.
  The question is, Will the Senate advise and consent to the Engel 
nomination?
  Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a sufficient second?
  There appears to be a sufficient second.
  The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk called the roll.
  Mr. CORNYN. The following Senator is necessarily absent: the Senator 
from Kentucky (Mr. Paul).
  Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. 
Menendez) is necessarily absent.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there any other Senators in the Chamber 
desiring to vote?
  The result was announced--yeas 51, nays 47, as follows:

                      [Rollcall Vote No. 264 Ex.]

                                YEAS--51

     Alexander
     Barrasso
     Blunt
     Boozman
     Burr
     Capito
     Cassidy
     Cochran
     Collins
     Corker
     Cornyn
     Cotton
     Crapo
     Cruz
     Daines
     Enzi
     Ernst
     Fischer
     Flake
     Gardner
     Graham
     Grassley
     Hatch
     Heller
     Hoeven
     Inhofe
     Isakson
     Johnson
     Kennedy
     Lankford
     Lee
     Manchin
     McConnell
     Moran
     Murkowski
     Perdue
     Portman
     Risch
     Roberts
     Rounds
     Rubio
     Sasse
     Scott
     Shelby
     Strange
     Sullivan
     Thune
     Tillis
     Toomey
     Wicker
     Young

[[Page S7054]]


  


                                NAYS--47

     Baldwin
     Bennet
     Blumenthal
     Booker
     Brown
     Cantwell
     Cardin
     Carper
     Casey
     Coons
     Cortez Masto
     Donnelly
     Duckworth
     Durbin
     Feinstein
     Franken
     Gillibrand
     Harris
     Hassan
     Heinrich
     Heitkamp
     Hirono
     Kaine
     King
     Klobuchar
     Leahy
     Markey
     McCain
     McCaskill
     Merkley
     Murphy
     Murray
     Nelson
     Peters
     Reed
     Sanders
     Schatz
     Schumer
     Shaheen
     Stabenow
     Tester
     Udall
     Van Hollen
     Warner
     Warren
     Whitehouse
     Wyden

                             NOT VOTING--2

     Menendez
     Paul
       
  The nomination was confirmed.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, the motion to 
reconsider is considered made and laid upon the table and the President 
will be immediately notified of the Senate's action.

                          ____________________



