

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 132 (Thursday, August 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 132 (Thursday, August 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S4798]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
proceed to the en bloc consideration of the following nominations: PN 
567, Executive Calendar Nos. 262, 264, 265, 266, 267, and 268.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will report the nominations en bloc.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read the nominations of Peter 
Louis Oppenheim, of Maryland, to be Assistant Secretary for Legislation 
and Congressional Affairs, Department of Education; James J. Sullivan, 
Jr., of Pennsylvania, to be a Member of the Occupational Safety and 
Health Review Commission for a term expiring April 27, 2021; Heather L. 
MacDougall, of Florida, to be a Member of the Occupational Safety and 
Health Review Commission for a term expiring April 27, 2023; Elinore F. 
McCance-Katz, of Rhode Island, to be Assistant Secretary for Mental 
Health and Substance Use, Department of Health and Human Services; 
Lance Allen Robertson, of Oklahoma, to be Assistant Secretary for 
Aging, Department of Health and Human Services; Jerome M. Adams, of 
Indiana, to be Medical Director in the Regular Corps of the Public 
Health Service, subject to qualifications therefor as provided by law 
and regulations, and to be Surgeon General of the Public Health Service 
for a term of four years; and Robert P. Kadlec, of New York, to be 
Medical Director in the Regular Corps of the Public Health Service, 
subject to qualifications therefor as provided by law and regulations, 
and to be Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response, Department 
of Health and Human Services.
  There being no objection, the Senate proceeded to consider the 
nominations en bloc.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
vote on the nominations en bloc with no intervening action or debate; 
that if confirmed, the motions to reconsider be considered made and 
laid upon the table en bloc; that the President be immediately notified 
of the Senate's action; that no further motions be in order; and that 
any statements relating to the nominations be printed in the Record.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The question is, Will the Senate advise and consent to the Oppenheim, 
Sullivan, MacDougall, McCance-Katz, Robertson, Adams, and Kadlec 
nominations en bloc?
  The nominations were confirmed en bloc.

                          ____________________



