

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 132 (Thursday, August 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 132 (Thursday, August 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S4826]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              90TH ANNIVERSARY OF BOY SCOUT TROOP NO. 533

 Mr. YOUNG. Mr. President, it is my great pleasure to pause and 
recognize the accomplishments of Boy Scout Troop No. 533 from my home 
State of Indiana. For the past 90 years, Boy Scout Troop No. 533 in 
Munster, IN, has been instilling the values of respect, honesty, and 
leadership in young Hoosiers that have had a lasting impact on our 
State. I am very proud of troop No. 533 for all of their service over 
the past 90 years and applaud their dedication to bettering their 
community.
  Boy Scout Troop No. 533 was formed in 1927 by Munster native Mr. 
Muary Kraay when he was in eighth grade. Since its founding, troop No. 
533 has been active in their community. During World War II, the Boy 
Scouts organized parades and rallies for war bonds, planted community 
gardens, practiced blackout drills, and participated in wartime 
recycling programs. On June 14, 1947, when President Coolidge dedicated 
Wicker Park in Highland, IN, troop No. 533 was there to welcome him. 
The Boy Scouts also had a crucial role during the September 2008 
flooding of the Little Calumet River. In anticipation of the flood, 
troop No. 533 assisted in filling sandbags, and after the flood, they 
assisted in yard cleanup and regraveling driveways. Over the past 90 
years, Boy Scout Troop No. 533 has produced over 100 Eagle Scouts, one 
of the highest levels of honor a Boy Scout can achieve.
  I would like to thank Boy Scout Troop No. 533 for their 90 years of 
outstanding public service. On behalf of all Hoosiers, congratulations 
on your 90th anniversary.

                          ____________________



