

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 182 (Wednesday, November 8, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 182 (Wednesday, November 8, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H8602]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




           ADDRESSING THE HUMANITARIAN CRISIS IN PUERTO RICO

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from New 
York (Mr. Espaillat) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. ESPAILLAT. Mr. Speaker, I rise today, marking the 48th day since 
Hurricane Maria made direct landfall on the island of Puerto Rico.
  Wreaking havoc for over 3.4 million American citizens living on the 
island, this administration's response has been beyond atrocious. I 
witnessed it myself a couple of weeks ago, and so did a group of 50 
registered nurses from across the country who volunteered for a two-
week disaster relief fund and mission.
  What these courageous women described upon returning was not at all 
reassuring. The lack of efficient action has led to deadly conditions 
and consequences: lack of food, water, medicine, proper healthcare 
services, houses with roofs blown off or infested with black mold, and 
leptospirosis outbreaks across the island.
  Laura Maceri, a registered nurse, said: ``It's hell there. The people 
have nothing, yet they are the first to offer you the shirt off their 
back.''
  Another nurse, Hau Yau, expressed: ``We couldn't believe this is part 
of the United States. We did home visits in low-income communities with 
the public health liaisons there who identified those in need, and 
helped them do basic blood pressure checks, blood sugar checks, to 
refill their medicine, et cetera. They have already had chronic 
diseases going on, and now their environment is full of hazardous 
materials, and the sanitation is very, very poor.''

  From another nurse, Erin Carrera: ``Spent the day in Rio Grande, a 
hard-hit area right outside of San Juan. No power or water here since 
Maria. We set up a clinic at the FEMA site for the first time here. 
People lined up blocks since 10 p.m. last night. But FEMA was only 
handing out papers--papers, which need to be filled out in order that 
they may receive some reimbursement eventually. Each person received a 
small bottle of water, a mini bag of Cheez-It and a little pack of 
vanilla cookies. Outrageous. We were able to provide care to some, not 
nearly enough, but one small contribution to this tragedy today.''
  Another nurse said: ``Today we went to a town called Barranquitas. 
They had almost no water or food there. They were desperate. They are 
relying on rainwater. One million chickens died during the storm and 
are now decomposed and causing people to get sick. Overwhelming is the 
only thing I can say to describe it.''
  Mr. Speaker, I stand with these nurses in their demands to address 
the humanitarian crisis on the island of Puerto Rico. This 
administration must respond immediately.
  We need to waive FEMA's cost-sharing requirements in Puerto Rico. 
Yesterday, Representative Gutierrez and I introduced the WEPA 
legislation--the Waiver of Emergency Payments Act--that chooses and 
aims to do exactly that.

                          ____________________



