

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 180 (Monday, November 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 180 (Monday, November 6, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7012-S7013]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 RECOGNIZING FALMOUTH ELEMENTARY SCHOOL

  Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I am delighted to commend Falmouth 
Elementary School in Falmouth, ME, on being named a 2017 National Blue 
Ribbon School of Excellence. Serving students from kindergarten through 
the fifth grade, this outstanding school is one of only 342 schools 
across the country to receive Blue Ribbon recognition from the U.S. 
Department of Education.
  Created in 1982, the Blue Ribbon Schools Program honors public and 
private schools that are either academically superior in their States 
or that demonstrate significant gains in student achievement. The 
schools singled out for this national recognition are models of high 
educational standards and accountability.
  The Blue Ribbon designation continues a tradition of quality 
education in Falmouth. Established just 6 years ago, the elementary 
school is relatively young; however, it has a rich history steeped in 
tradition. The union of two schools in 2011 created the largest 
elementary school in Maine. One of those schools, Plummer-Motz, 
received a Blue Ribbon Award in 2005, and the dedication to quality 
education was expanded through a transition that was guided by a team 
of representatives from each of the two schools.
  Faculty and staff at Falmouth are committed to both academic 
excellence and each child's social, emotional, and physical health. 
They work to ensure a

[[Page S7013]]

safe and secure learning environment and to develop strong and 
collaborative relationships with parents and community members.
  Students have rich and diverse learning opportunities in art and 
music, and library skills are part of every child's learning. World 
language instruction starts in the first grade, and computer science 
classes start in grade 3. Students benefit from interdisciplinary 
learning through the garden-greenhouse and through celebrations such as 
Arts Nights, Coder Express, and Engineering Night.
  This award recognizes that Falmouth Elementary School students 
achieve at the highest level. The school involves all students in 
extracurricular activities, which helps forge a strong school community 
where students are connected and encouraged to pursue their interests.
  I applaud the administrators, teachers, staff, and parents of 
Falmouth Elementary School. Together, they are succeeding in their 
mission to generate confidence and momentum for learning. They are 
making a difference in the lives of their students, helping them reach 
their full potential as independent, responsible learners and citizens. 
I am pleased that the U.S. Department of Education has selected 
Falmouth Elementary School for this well-deserved honor, and I 
congratulate the entire school community for this outstanding 
achievement.

                          ____________________



