

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 157 (Monday, October 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 157 (Monday, October 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6260-S6261]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 538

  At the request of Ms. Stabenow, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Graham) was added as a cosponsor of S. 538, a bill to 
clarify research and development for wood products, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 548

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Graham) was added as a cosponsor of S. 548, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to reform the low-income 
housing credit, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 794

  At the request of Mr. Carper, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 794, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act in order to improve the process 
whereby Medicare administrative contractors issue local coverage 
determinations under the Medicare program, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 928

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 928, a bill to 
prohibit, as an unfair or deceptive act or practice, commercial sexual 
orientation conversion therapy, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1050

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Reed) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1050, a bill to award 
a Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the Chinese-American 
Veterans of World War II, in recognition of their dedicated service 
during World War II.


                                S. 1064

  At the request of Mr. Udall, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1064, a bill to amend 
the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act to prohibit the 
stigmatization of children who are unable to pay for meals.


                                S. 1157

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the name of the Senator from Minnesota

[[Page S6261]]

(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1157, a bill to 
establish the Vulnerability Equities Review Board, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1162

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1162, a bill to amend 
the Higher Education Act of 1965 to provide for the refinancing of 
certain Federal student loans, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1301

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1301, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for the distribution 
of additional residency positions, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1522

  At the request of Mr. Heinrich, the names of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) and the Senator from Colorado (Mr. Gardner) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1522, a bill to establish an Every Kid Outdoors 
program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1718

  At the request of Mr. Kennedy, the name of the Senator from New 
Mexico (Mr. Heinrich) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1718, a bill to 
authorize the minting of a coin in honor of the 75th anniversary of the 
end of World War II, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1738

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1738, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for a home infusion 
therapy services temporary transitional payment under the Medicare 
program.


                                S. 1754

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from New 
Mexico (Mr. Udall) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1754, a bill to 
reauthorize section 340H of the Public Health Service Act to continue 
to encourage the expansion, maintenance, and establishment of approved 
graduate medical residency programs at qualified teaching health 
centers, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1766

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mr. Blunt) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1766, a bill to reauthorize the SAFER Act of 2013, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 1768

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from New 
Mexico (Mr. Heinrich) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1768, a bill to 
reauthorize and amend the National Earthquake Hazards Reduction 
Program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1783

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1783, a bill to 
amend the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 to require each State 
to implement a process under which individuals who are 16 years of age 
may apply to register to vote in elections for Federal office in the 
State, to direct the Election Assistance Commission to make grants to 
States to increase the involvement of minors in public election 
activities, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1803

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1803, a bill to 
improve medical research on marijuana.


                                S. 1808

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the names of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Graham) and the Senator from Montana (Mr. Tester) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1808, a bill to extend temporarily the 
Federal Perkins Loan program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1816

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the names of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) and the Senator from Michigan (Ms. Stabenow) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1816, a bill to amend the Fair Credit Reporting Act 
to enhance fraud alert procedures and provide free access to credit 
freezes, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1827

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Bennet) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1827, a bill to extend 
funding for the Children's Health Insurance Program, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1829

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the names of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar), the Senator from Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) and 
the Senator from Florida (Mr. Nelson) were added as cosponsors of S. 
1829, a bill to amend title V of the Social Security Act to extend the 
Maternal, Infant, and Early Childhood Home Visiting Program.


                                S. 1838

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1838, a bill to repeal the 
authority under the National Labor Relations Act for States to enact 
laws prohibiting agreements requiring membership in a labor 
organization as a condition of employment, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1868

  At the request of Mr. Heinrich, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1868, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide tax credits for energy storage 
technologies, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1895

  At the request of Mr. Udall, the name of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. 
Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1895, a bill to reauthorize the 
Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996, 
and for other purposes.


                            S. CON. RES. 19

  At the request of Mr. Boozman, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. Con. Res. 19, 
a concurrent resolution commemorating the 50th anniversary of the 
Smithsonian Folklife Festival.

                          ____________________



