

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 192 (Monday, November 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 192 (Monday, November 27, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7331]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          USS ``JACKSONVILLE''

  Mr. NELSON. Mr. President, I would like to recognize the Los Angeles-
class attack submarine USS Jacksonville prior to her decommissioning. 
On August 10, the USS Jacksonville returned to homeport at Joint Base 
Pearl Harbor-Hickam after completing her final deployment in the 
Western Pacific.
  The completion of this mission marked the USS Jacksonville's 15th 
deployment since the ship's commissioning in May 1981. Over her 
lifespan, the USS Jacksonville has completed two around-the-world 
cruises, visited ports in nearly every continent, and completed 
countless critical missions. While assigned to the Enterprise battle 
group on September 11, 2001, the Jacksonville provided critical 
intelligence support as the Nation prepared to respond to the horrific 
attacks.
  In a tribute to its namesake, the Jacksonville's nickname is ``The 
Bold One,'' based on the city of Jacksonville, Florida's slogan of 
``The Bold New City of the South.'' I am sure the entire city of 
Jacksonville, with its rich naval tradition, is honored today by this 
submarine's legacy, and the outstanding service provided by her crew 
and their dedication to our great Nation.
  Current and former crew will be hosting a reunion this November in 
Hawaii to say one final good-bye to the USS Jacksonville. I invite my 
colleagues to join me in honoring the boat, her current crew, and all 
of our Nation's courageous sailors who have served on board in years 
past.

                          ____________________



