

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 3 (Thursday, January 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 3 (Thursday, January 5, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S110]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                  TRIBUTE TO JOHN AND STEPHANIE HEKKEL

 Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, today I have the honor of 
recognizing John and Stephanie Hekkel of Anaconda in celebration of the 
rebuilding of Club Moderne.
  The bar had been considered an area landmark since its founding in 
1937 and was truly a sight to behold. With its rounded front facade and 
Carrara glass panels, it reflected the Art Deco style of the time of 
its founding. It was designed by Bozeman-based architect Fred Willson 
and built by local carpenters and craftspeople under the direction of 
the first owner, John ``Skinny'' Francisco.
  Until recently, the Club Moderne had changed very little since its 
opening day, and in 1986, it was added to the National Register of 
Historic Places.
  In 1997, the Francisco family sold the bar to a close friend, 
longtime bartender, and Anaconda native John Hekkel who continued its 
legacy as a flagship watering hole, especially for area law enforcement 
and firefighters, while maintaining its retro atmosphere.
  A recent Yelp review described taking a step inside ``like walking 
inside a time capsule!''
  Last April, it also won the top award in The Big Tap: 2016 Historic 
Bars Tournament Championship, an online contest sponsored by the 
National Trust for Historic Preservation.
  Unfortunately, Club Moderne was destroyed in a fire in October, a 
tragic loss to the Anaconda community.
  The night the fire happened, I understand John Hekkel stayed at the 
bar until 4:00 in the morning and, after the fire was extinguished, 
grabbed a shovel and physically helped with the cleanup.
  Just this week, I was thrilled to hear the Hekkels announce plans to 
rebuild the bar and restore this historic establishment.
  This is a true Montana story. Montanans pull themselves up by their 
bootstraps, even in times of hardship or loss.
  I invite fellow Montanans to stop by to try whatever's on tap or a 
Moscow Mule, which is an Anaconda specialty.
  The Hekkels, through Club Moderne, have welcomed those just passing 
through our State and native Montanans alike for generations. As small 
business owners, they have brought their community together. I wish 
them all my best as they restore Club Moderne and renew it as a bright 
spot in the Anaconda community. I look forward to visiting with John 
and Stephanie there when they reopen.

                          ____________________



