

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 37 (Thursday, March 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 37 (Thursday, March 2, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H1468-H1469]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       EMPLOYEE APPRECIATION DAY

  (Mr. PRICE of North Carolina asked and was given permission to 
address the House for 1 minute.)
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Speaker, tomorrow, March 3, is 
Employee Appreciation Day; and since we

[[Page H1469]]

won't be in session, I rise today to register my appreciation for the 
staff members who allow me to serve the people of the Fourth District 
of North Carolina.
  The current political and media environment is not always an easy one 
for congressional staff to operate in, yet, every year, the staffers 
working in my North Carolina district offices help thousands of 
constituents navigate Federal agencies. They reach out to local 
businesses, governments, and other organizations, and help constituents 
access needed support.
  In Washington, D.C., our office staff researches thousands of pieces 
of legislation. They help me communicate with hundreds of thousands of 
constituent communications, and help welcome constituents to 
Washington. And they join me in meetings with constituent groups and 
local and State representatives and universities and businesses--every 
imaginable group.
  So the list of tasks is long, but all of them help ensure that the 
people of the Fourth District of North Carolina have a voice in the 
people's House. Simply put, these staff members that serve all of us 
represent the very best of public service. I and the people of North 
Carolina are grateful for their service.
  Mr. Speaker, in recognition of their dedication and diligence, I 
would like to include in the Congressional Record the names of each of 
my staff currently employed in my office:
  Nadia Alston, Katelynn Anderson, Sonia Barnes, Nora Blalock, Bayly 
Hassell, Asher Hildebrand, James Hunter, Lawrence Kluttz, Tracy Lovett, 
Sean Maxwell, Neel Mandavilli, Dave Russell, Samantha Schifrin, Anna 
Tilghman, Justin Wein, Leigh Whittaker, and Robyn Winneberger.
  I am grateful, Mr. Speaker, for the effort that these staff members 
continue to put forth and for the opportunity that Employee 
Appreciation Day gives me and others to honor their service.

                          ____________________



