

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 3 (Thursday, January 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 3 (Thursday, January 5, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H175]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         PATHWAY OF DESTRUCTION

  (Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute.)
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, today, in the Senate, the other body, 
unfortunately, joined the pathway of destruction for most Americans and 
voted to repeal the Affordable Care Act. These are not my words, the 
pathway of destruction, but is evidence what will happen to millions 
and millions of Americans. By repealing without a replacement, which 
does not exist, insurance will be taken away from 32 million working 
families. Now, some 4 million uninsured children will have no 
insurance.
  Let me be very clear that many of these individuals do not have 
college degrees. Many of them, the voters of those who now will take 
the rein of government. Healthcare premiums will increase by 50 percent 
for millions of Americans. Hundreds of billions of dollars will go to 
tax breaks for insurance companies while eliminating the tax credits 
and subsidies for millions of working families.
  It will take healthcare coverage away from millions of low- and 
moderate-income Americans by cutting Medicaid, and it will close rural 
hospitals and public hospitals that provide the lifeline for many 
Americans. It will cut off Federal funds for health care for women 
through Planned Parenthood. And yes, it will eliminate and have cuts in 
Medicare and Medicaid.
  Mr. Speaker, this is a pathway of disaster. We should not repeal the 
Affordable Care Act.

                          ____________________



