

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 19 (Friday, February 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 19 (Friday, February 3, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H962]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          HONORING GARY ANDRES

  (Mr. PALLONE asked and was given permission to address the House for 
1 minute.)
  Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I second and reiterate what my colleague 
from Michigan (Mr. Upton) just said about Gary Andres.
  I actually remember, when I was first elected to Congress in 1988 and 
when the first President Bush was President, being outside of the 
Capitol, outside the House Chambers and talking to Gary. He was, I 
believe, the White House congressional liaison at the time.
  I was a young Member and didn't really know what was going on around 
here with a Republican President; and Gary was so warm, so helpful, 
trying to help me out, even though I was of the other party, even 
though I was a freshman Member. And that continued on so many 
occasions, both under President Bush and, of course, afterwards and 
most recently, with the Energy and Commerce Committee as a staff 
director.
  What Representative Upton said is absolutely true, Gary was always 
the fighter for the Republicans, for the majority; but at the same 
time, he always wanted to work with Democrats.
  Gary, like Congressman Upton, believed very strongly that if we were 
going to accomplish anything, it had to be done on a bipartisan basis. 
I know Congressman Upton mentioned in particular the 21st Century Cures 
Act, but it was true with everything.
  One of the reasons that we were so successful, I think, in the last 
session in doing so many pieces of legislation that were important to 
the country was not only because of Congressman Upton and his 
leadership, but also because of Gary and his working with Jeff Carroll, 
who is our minority staff director.
  So I wish Gary well. There are very few people that I can say, over 
the last 29 years that I have been here, who was always trying to reach 
out and do the right thing. I think that is so important.
  So congratulations and good luck in the future, Gary.

                          ____________________



