

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 12 (Monday, January 23, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 12 (Monday, January 23, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H594]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  AMERICA IS A COUNTRY FOR ALL PEOPLE

  (Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute.)
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, having worked for the Southern 
Christian Leadership Conference and been engaged with many of the foot 
soldiers that studied under Dr. Martin Luther King, I love and cherish 
nonviolent protests and the rights for people to petition.
  I hold up a beautiful and powerful statement by way of a picture, 
powerful together, as thousands marched across the Nation, upwards of 1 
million and maybe even more. I am particularly proud of those in 
Houston, Texas, and particularly ``Across Texas, marchers `just can't 
be silent anymore.' ''
  Congratulations to those who marched safely, securely, and 
nonviolently. Congratulations to the Houston organizers. Yes, it is 
your right to fight against the repeal of the Affordable Care Act, the 
ignoring of the funding of access to women's health care. It is your 
right to fight for educational opportunity. It is your right to 
recognize that we have rights as women, but we have rights as 
Americans; and it is your right to seek a nation that will be 
representative of all of the people, no matter where they come from, 
what their religious background is, what regions they live for.
  It is beyond the wonderful Midwest that the Nation needs to be 
represented. It is in the far corners of the east and the north, yes, 
down in Houston, Texas, far to the west. We cannot isolate and say we 
won with few votes from this region. America is a country for all 
people, and I look forward to this Congress and this White House 
representing all of us.

                          ____________________



