

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 18 (Thursday, February 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 18 (Thursday, February 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S654-S655]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              250TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE MATTATUCK DRUM BAND

 Mr. MURPHY. I would like to congratulate the Mattatuck Drum 
Band, the oldest continually operating marching band in the Nation, on 
its 250th anniversary. The Mattatuck Drum Band's performances have 
captivated audiences in Connecticut since before the founding of our 
Nation and deserve recognition for continuing this important musical 
tradition over so many years.
  During the marching band's formative years in the early 1770's, it 
was known as the Farmingbury Drum Band. The group performed at 
Farmingbury church events, where churchgoers were called into services 
by drumbeat--a common practice for churches without a bell. During the 
American Revolution, many members of the band served as wartime fifers 
and drummers, providing military field music for soldiers fighting for 
American independence. Shortly after returning home from the war, the 
band grew in popularity and changed their name to the Wolcott Drum 
Band.
  In the 19th century, many band members continued their service to the 
military during the War of 1812 and in the Civil War, participating in 
rallies and recruiting events to ``drum up'' support for the militia. 
Following the Civil War, however, many band members relocated, and 
interest in the group waned. The group was revived in 1881, when the 
remaining active members of the band moved the group to Waterbury and 
renamed it the Mattatuck Drum Band. The uniform first donned by this 
group in 1884 is still worn by the Mattatuck Drum Band today.
  As the band continued into the 20th century, their main purpose 
shifted from rallying support for the militia to bolstering the morale 
and feelings of patriotism amongst the public. Although many Mattatuck 
Drum Band members enlisted to serve their country during World War I 
and World War

[[Page S655]]

II, the musicians still found ways to practice and keep the group 
active. In 1961, the Mattatuck Drum Band travelled to Washington to 
participate in the inaugural parade of President-Elect John F. Kennedy. 
They received a standing ovation and applause for their performance.
  Today the Mattatuck Drum Band performs at many parades and 
celebrations, using their powerful drum beats to continue the patriotic 
tunes and traditions that have inspired so many Americans over 
generations. I would like to congratulate the Mattatuck Drum Band on 
their incredible history of service and inspiration. It is my hope that 
the band continues this incredible musical tradition for many more 
years to come.

                          ____________________



