

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 3 (Thursday, January 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 3 (Thursday, January 5, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H165]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




   MOMENT OF SILENCE TO COMMEMORATE SIXTH ANNIVERSARY OF SHOOTING IN 
                                 TUCSON

  (Ms. McSALLY asked and was given permission to address the House for 
1 minute.)
  Ms. McSALLY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today, along with my colleagues from 
Arizona and around the country, to commemorate the sixth anniversary of 
the January 8, 2011, shooting in Tucson that killed six people and 
wounded 13 more.
  Six years ago this week, Congresswoman Giffords was sworn into 
office, just like we were 3 days ago. Six years ago this week, she 
headed home to her district, just like we all will tomorrow. And 6 
years ago, on Sunday, she was engaging in one of the most fundamental 
activities of representative government by meeting with her 
constituents to hear their thoughts, concerns, and ideas, just like we 
will all do in the days ahead.
  As Representatives, we each carry out this critical discourse when 
home in our districts. Its exercise is vital to our free society, which 
is why this shooting wasn't just an attack on Tucson, but this body and 
our very democratic foundations.
  The attack marked the first time in our country's history that an 
assassination attempt was made on a congressional Member while engaging 
with her constituents. It also is remembered as the first assassination 
of a congressional staffer, Gabe Zimmerman, in the line of duty.
  As we remember those we lost, we also reflect on the renewed sense of 
compassion and civility that emerged from this tragedy. This weekend, 
in Tucson, we will commemorate how our community came together to 
support those grieving and provide an example of courage and unity that 
the entire country can follow.
  It is in this spirit of unity that we stand here for a moment of 
silence to recognize the six lives that were cut tragically short that 
day:
  Nine-year-old Christina Taylor Green;
  Dorothy Morris;
  Judge John Roll;
  Phyllis Schneck;
  Dorwan Stoddard; and
  Congressional staffer Gabriel ``Gabe'' Zimmerman.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The House will observe a moment of silence.

                          ____________________



