

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 36 (Wednesday, March 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 36 (Wednesday, March 1, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H1402]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1215
                       KEEPING HEALTHCARE PROMISE

  (Mr. COLLINS of Georgia asked and was given permission to address the 
House for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam Speaker, last night, in this Chamber, 
we heard President Trump call on the 115th Congress to repeal and 
replace ObamaCare with reforms that expand patient choice, increase 
their access to substantive health care, lower costs for our friends 
and neighbors, and, at the same time, provide better quality health 
care.
  I am here today to say that my colleagues and I are doing just that. 
We have listened to the families who have lost income and access to 
their doctors. My own corner of northeast Georgia is full of 
individuals who work tirelessly to care for their families, and 
ObamaCare has made it harder for them to see their doctors.
  The first promise that ObamaCare broke was that if people liked their 
insurance, they could keep it. As the insurance market continues its 
death spiral, we see insurance providers offering less coverage for 
more money.
  Now, my colleagues and I have a choice to make: rescue our failing 
healthcare system by repealing ObamaCare and returning competition and 
innovation to the healthcare landscape, or go down in history as 
leaders who did not keep their promises; as leaders who allowed their 
neighbors to suffer under what may be the most misguided, destructive 
policy of our generation.
  The choice is clear. The choice is urgent. The choice is simple: 
Republicans are leading in healthcare reform that will bring relief to 
Americans who have only experienced the broken promises of ObamaCare. 
We are offering affordable, flexible healthcare options that prioritize 
patients over bureaucrats, and we are doing it together.

                          ____________________



