

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 54 (Tuesday, March 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 54 (Tuesday, March 28, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2051]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. GARDENER. Mr. President, I have 9 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to Rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


                      Committee on Armed Services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, March 28, 2017, at 2:30 p.m.


            Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs

  The Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, March 28, 2017, at 
9:30 a.m. to conduct a hearing entitled ``Fostering Economic Growth: 
The Role of Financial Companies.''


               Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

  The Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate in order to hold a hearing on 
Tuesday, March 28, 2017, beginning at 10 a.m. in Room 366 of the 
Dirksen Senate Office Building in Washington, DC.


                      Committee on Foreign Affairs

  The Committee on Foreign Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, March 28, 2017, at 10:30 a.m., to 
hold a hearing entitled ``The View From Congress: U.S. Policy on 
Iran.''


                       Committee on the Judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on March 28, 2017, at 10 a.m., in Room SD-226 of 
the Dirksen Senate Office Building, to conduct a hearing entitled 
``Protecting Youth Athletes from Sexual Abuse.''


               Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

  The Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources' Subcommittee on 
Energy is authorized to meet during the session of the Senate in order 
to hold a hearing on Tuesday, March 28, 2017, at 2:15 p.m., in Room 366 
of the Dirksen Senate Office Building in Washington, DC.


             Subcommittee on Fisheries, Water and Wildlife

  The Subcommittee on Fisheries, Water and Wildlife of the Committee on 
Environment and Public Works is authorized to meet during the session 
of the Senate on Tuesday, March 28, 2017, at 2:15 p.m., in Room 406 of 
the Dirksen Senate Office Building.


                    Select Committee on Intelligence

  The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet 
during the session of the 115th Congress of the U.S. Senate on Tuesday, 
March 28, 2017, from 2:15 p.m., in Room SH-219 of the Senate Hart 
Office Building.


                    Select Committee on Intelligence

  The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet 
during the session of the 115th Congress of the U.S. Senate on Tuesday, 
March 28, 2017, from 2:15 p.m., in Room SH-219 of the Senate Hart 
Office Building to approve the Biennial Report.

                          ____________________



