

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S47]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

               REMEMBERING JOHN ``DEPENDS ON HIM'' SMITH

 Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, today Iwish to honor and remember 
my good friend John Smith.
  On Saturday, December 31, 2016, we lost one of Wyoming's best leaders 
and diplomats on the Wind River Reservation. JohnSmith was a member of 
the Northern Arapaho tribe. For 27 years, he served as the director of 
the department of transportationfor the Eastern Shoshone and Northern 
Arapaho Tribes of the Wind River Reservation. Mr. Smith played a major 
role passingtransportation legislation that will save and improve lives 
on the Wind River Reservation and across tribal communities.
  John was a wonderful friend and a wonderful man. I admired him 
greatly for his big heart, his warmth, and his larger thanlife 
personality. John cared deeply about the lives of people who lived and 
traveled through the Wind River Reservation. John'scommitment to 
improving his community's roads can be seen today all over the Wind 
River Reservation. He was a hard worker,innovative and creative. He was 
always doing more with less. His jokes and sense of humor always made 
that hard work a littleeasier. Indian country did not have a better 
advocate or finer person to represent them in Washington, DC.
  Since John's work ethic and personality were so big, he naturally 
lived up to his nickname ``Big John'' in every respect. Asa former 
football and basketball player, you could see Big John coming from 
blocks away.
  In 2014, John was in Washington, DC, to receive the White House 
Champions of Change award from the Secretary ofTransportation, Anthony 
Foxx. Big John was being recognized for bringing tribal, State, and 
local leaders together to completeconstruction of the notorious 17 Mile 
Road. When he received the award, Big John took off his cowboy hat and 
placed it on thehead of Secretary Foxx. The unforgettable smile on Big 
John lit up the room with laughter. This special man left a 
lastingimpression on all those who had the privilege of working with 
him.
  Last April, John testified before the Senate Committee on Indian 
Affairs. He talked about dangerous roads that were costinglives in 
tribal communities. His testimony led to important legislation being 
passed to improve those roads. His efforts notonly changed lives, it 
saved them, and we are all grateful. It has been an honor and privilege 
to work with Big John on highwaybills. It has been a higher honor to be 
his friend.
  John leaves big boots to fill, and I am confident the Wind River 
community will fill those boots and continue his hard work.
  As we lift up our hearts and celebrate Big John's life, we also thank 
him for his selfless service on behalf of the peopleof Wyoming. Big 
John, thank you, and we will miss you.

                          ____________________



