

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 43 (Monday, March 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 43 (Monday, March 13, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1774]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




             REMEMBERING CHARLES ANTHONY ``C.A.'' WILLIAMS

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, today I wish to honor the life of 
Charles Anthony ``C.A.'' Williams, of London, KY, who passed away after 
a long career of public service and great creativity.
  During a lifetime of achievement, C.A. had many professions. He 
served his community as a Laurel County clerk and his Nation in the 
U.S. Army. He traveled the country driving a semi-truck, and he shared 
his deep faith as a gospel music singer and songwriter.
  In each of these endeavors, C.A showed his passion, his skill, and 
his love. Through his music and his witness, C.A. fulfilled his 
greatest desire in life. Mr. Kip Jervis, one of C. A.'s nephews, 
remembered that his uncle ``had a made-up mind of where he was headed, 
and he made it his mission to take everyone he could with him.'' This 
drive led C.A. to share his story and his faith.
  His passion continued throughout his battle with brain cancer. After 
a 1989 diagnosis, C.A. faced every day with optimism, knowing that ``he 
was a winner either way.'' After a long fight, C.A. recovered from 
cancer and continued to write music.
  Reverend Gene Greene, the pastor of Carmichael Pentecostal Church in 
East Bernstadt, remembered C.A.'s immense talent. During his long 
drives in his semi-truck, C.A. would write gospel songs, a practice 
that became his greatest joy. He released some of these songs in an 
album called ``Magnificent Jesus.'' For a man of so many talents, this 
album was one of C.A.'s proudest accomplishments.
  C.A. left behind three loving children, Brittany, Brooklyn, and 
Israel, and his sister, Connie. I know that the memories of C.A.'s love 
for them will help ease their pain. Elaine and I send our deepest 
condolences to the entire Williams family, and I know that C.A. will be 
remembered fondly by everyone he inspired with his faith, his 
dedication, and his music. He was a good man, and I am proud to say he 
was my friend.

                          ____________________



