

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 6 (Tuesday, January 10, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 6 (Tuesday, January 10, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S205-S206]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 17

  At the request of Mr. Sasse, the names of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mrs. McCaskill) and the Senator from Georgia (Mr. Perdue) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 17, a bill to ensure the Government Accountability 
Office has adequate access to information.


                                 S. 27

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 27, a bill to establish an 
independent commission to examine and report on the facts regarding the 
extent of Russian official and unofficial cyber operations and other 
attempts to interfere in the 2016 United States national election, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 36

  At the request of Mr. Inhofe, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue) was added as a cosponsor of S. 36, a bill to amend the 
Immigration and Nationality Act to provide for extensions of detention 
of certain aliens ordered removed, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 53

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Ms. Murkowski) was added as a cosponsor of S. 53, a bill to authorize 
and strengthen the tsunami detection, forecast, warning, research, and 
mitigation program of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 63

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 63, a bill to 
clarify the rights of Indians and Indian tribes on Indian lands under 
the National Labor Relations Act.


                                 S. 74

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 74, a bill to 
improve the ability of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration, the Coast Guard, and coastal States to sustain healthy 
ocean and coastal ecosystems by maintaining and sustaining their 
capabilities relating to oil spill preparedness, prevention, response, 
and for other purposes.


                               S. RES. 6

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the names of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mr. Sasse), the Senator from Alabama (Mr. Shelby), the Senator from 
Tennessee (Mr. Alexander), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar), 
the Senator from California (Ms. Harris) and the Senator from Texas 
(Mr. Cruz) were added as cosponsors of S. Res. 6, a resolution 
objecting to United Nations Security Council Resolution 2334 and to all 
efforts that undermine direct negotiations between Israel and the 
Palestinians for a secure and peaceful settlement.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 2

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 2 intended to be 
proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolution setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 9

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from 
Virginia (Mr. Kaine) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 9 
intended to be proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolution 
setting forth the congressional budget for the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 17

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the names of the Senator from 
Hawaii (Ms. Hirono) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) 
were added as cosponsors of amendment No. 17 intended to be proposed to 
S. Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolution setting forth the congressional 
budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and 
setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 
through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 19

  At the request of Mr. Sanders, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr.

[[Page S206]]

Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 19 proposed to S. 
Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolution setting forth the congressional 
budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and 
setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 
through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 26

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the name of the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
King) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 26 intended to be 
proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolution setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 27

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the name of the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
King) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 27 intended to be 
proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolution setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 28

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Kaine) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 28 intended to be 
proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolution setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 29

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) and the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen) were added as 
cosponsors of amendment No. 29 intended to be proposed to S. Con. Res. 
3, a concurrent resolution setting forth the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 30

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 
30 intended to be proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolution 
setting forth the congressional budget for the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 31

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Ms. Hirono) and the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) were 
added as cosponsors of amendment No. 31 intended to be proposed to S. 
Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolution setting forth the congressional 
budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and 
setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 
through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 32

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the names of the Senator from 
Vermont (Mr. Leahy) and the Senator from Maine (Mr. King) were added as 
cosponsors of amendment No. 32 intended to be proposed to S. Con. Res. 
3, a concurrent resolution setting forth the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 33

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the names of the Senator from 
Illinois (Mr. Durbin) and the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) 
were added as cosponsors of amendment No. 33 intended to be proposed to 
S. Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolution setting forth the congressional 
budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and 
setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 
through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 34

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the names of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Mr. Franken), the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren), 
the Senator from Indiana (Mr. Donnelly) and the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Carper) were added as cosponsors of amendment No. 34 intended to 
be proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolution setting forth 
the congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal 
year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 35

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Carper) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 35 intended to 
be proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolution setting forth 
the congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal 
year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 36

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the names of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Leahy), the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Cardin) and the Senator 
from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) were added as cosponsors of amendment 
No. 36 intended to be proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, a concurrent 
resolution setting forth the congressional budget for the United States 
Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate 
budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 37

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the names of the Senator from Ohio 
(Mr. Brown) and the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) were added 
as cosponsors of amendment No. 37 intended to be proposed to S. Con. 
Res. 3, a concurrent resolution setting forth the congressional budget 
for the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth 
the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 49

  At the request of Mr. Whitehouse, the names of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal), the Senator from Vermont (Mr. Leahy) and 
the Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) were added as cosponsors 
of amendment No. 49 intended to be proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, a 
concurrent resolution setting forth the congressional budget for the 
United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 54

  At the request of Mr. Franken, the names of the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) and the Senator from Maine (Mr. King) were 
added as cosponsors of amendment No. 54 intended to be proposed to S. 
Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolution setting forth the congressional 
budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and 
setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 
through 2026.

                          ____________________



