

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 23 (Thursday, February 9, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 23 (Thursday, February 9, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1069]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       TRIBUTE TO ALEXANDER SCOTT

 Ms. HASSAN. Mr. President, today I wish to ask my colleagues 
to join me in recognizing and congratulating Chief Alexander Scott on 
his many years of remarkable service to the city of Claremont and the 
State of New Hampshire. As the Claremont Police Department's chief of 
police, Chief Scott has worked tirelessly to ensure the safety and 
security of the Claremont community. The State of New Hampshire owes 
him a debt of gratitude for his service.
  Chief Scott's history with the Claremont Police Department dates back 
to a summer internship in 1989 when he was a member of the corps of 
cadets at Norwich University, the military college of Vermont. Shortly 
after finishing his internship, Chief Scott was hired part-time as a 
special officer. He finished his degree requirements early and enrolled 
in the New Hampshire full time police academy during his final semester 
at Norwich. Upon graduating magna cum laude from Norwich and completing 
the police academy, Chief Scott started in the Claremont Police 
Department's patrol division. Two years later, he transferred to the 
criminal division and rose to the level of assistant department 
prosecutor, igniting his passion for law.
  Chief Scott left the department to attend the Franklin Pierce Law 
Center. In his first year, he married his wife Kathryn, with whom he 
has two daughters, Hannah and Elyse. As a lawyer, Chief Scott continued 
to support his community as the assistant county attorney for Sullivan 
County. He remained in that position until 2003 when he returned to the 
Claremont Police Department as the chief of police, a role in which he 
has served for over a decade. As chief, he has not only worked to 
preserve the peace and protect the law, but he has also inspired future 
generations of public servants through his professorship at River 
Valley Community College and at his own alma mater, Norwich University. 
Chief Scott will now retire from the police department and return to 
practicing law as he joins the criminal division of the New Hampshire 
Attorney General's office.
  Claremont and all of New Hampshire have benefitted greatly from Chief 
Scott's devotion and leadership. On behalf of my colleagues and the 
U.S. Congress, I thank Chief Alexander Scott for his unceasing 
commitment to protecting his community and for his continued service to 
our State as he moves into his new position with the New Hampshire 
Attorney General's office.

                          ____________________



