

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 20 (Monday, February 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 20 (Monday, February 6, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S966-S967]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     TRIBUTE TO FATHER RAY DOHERTY

  Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I would like to take a moment today to 
honor Father Ray Doherty, a fellow Michaelman and a pillar of the St. 
Michael's College community. Father Ray, as he is warmly known, 
exemplifies so many of the qualities we Vermonters hold dear. His 
compassion and leadership have contributed to a vibrant college campus 
and has inspired those beyond its borders. As a member of the Society 
of Saint Edmund, whose members founded the college in 1904, Father Ray 
has embodied a commitment to social justice throughout his lifetime of 
service.
  Father Ray first came to St. Michael's as a 17-year-old freshman. He 
spent his college years as both a student and an athlete, gracing the 
baseball program with his talents as pitcher before graduating in 1951. 
Father

[[Page S967]]

Ray then served as a staff sergeant in the U.S. Marine Corps during the 
Korean conflict. It was there that Father Ray saw the importance of 
loyalty and strong leadership, leading him to join another brotherhood 
following his discharge.
  As an Edmundite priest for more than six decades, Father Ray had 
advised and supported countless students at Saint Michael's. His 
leadership on campus focuses on setting a good example through actions 
rather than words. Father Ray's commitment to social justice and 
involvement in campus service organizations has fostered peace and 
justice with in the college community. Though honored with an array of 
awards, including induction into the college's athletic hall of fame 
and the establishment of a scholarship in his name, Father Ray remains 
humble. His role as an administrator, leader, and friend is rooted in a 
sense of selflessness and an everlasting commitment to the community 
around him.
  To my friend Ray, I say, ``Semper Fi.''
  The St. Michael's College Magazine recently highlighted Father Ray's 
service, and I ask unanimous consent that that featurette be printed in 
the Record.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:

                 Great Leaders Think of the Common Good

                       (By Susan Salter Reynolds)

       Father Ray Doherty, SSE, served as a staff sergeant in the 
     United States Marine Corps during the Korean conflict, and 
     has been an Edmundite priest in the campus ministry and on 
     the Board of Trustees at Saint Michael's for half a century. 
     He is, by all accounts, a much-loved and admired presence on 
     the campus.
       ``What I look for in leadership is a good example,'' he 
     says, paraphrasing St. Francis: ``It's not so much what you 
     say as what you do.'' Father Ray can't help but point out 
     that in this election season these words took on special 
     meaning.
       ``Great leaders think of the common good,'' he says. ``They 
     aren't in it just for themselves.'' Here at Saint Michael's, 
     he says, ``We are blessed with the opportunity to lead by 
     example.''
       Father Ray believes that making people feel safe is an 
     important part of good leadership. He admires the leadership 
     of Pope Francis ``He is a man of action,'' Father Ray says, 
     recalling a time when Pope Francis embraced a man with a very 
     disfigured face. ``He didn't hesitate. This is an example of 
     actions being more important than words.''
       Humility is another raw ingredient of leadership, and 
     Father Ray sees this quality on campus in many places, 
     including the leadership of President Jack Neuhauser. ``He is 
     extremely humble--always stands in the back for group 
     photographs!''
       Was the leadership Father Ray saw in the Marines different 
     from the leadership he has experienced in civilian life? 
     ``The training was strict,'' he says, ``but I might never 
     have become a priest if I hadn't had that opportunity to 
     think about things. There's a lot of love in military life. 
     Many talk about love for their fellow Marines, about fighting 
     maybe not for a cause or a country but in the moment for the 
     guy next to you. You develop these bonds, this loyalty''
       ``Leadership can also mean listening to the call. When I 
     look back on my life I see so many surprising moments when I 
     made decisions on my own or with God's help. As a Christian 
     and a believer, I do believe that there is some guidance out 
     there if we are open to it. We must be open to inspiration in 
     order to he good leaders.''

                          ____________________



