

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 58 (Tuesday, April 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 58 (Tuesday, April 4, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2431]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, I have 7 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to Rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


                      Committee on Armed Services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, April 6, 2017, at 9:30 a.m.


                          Committee on Finance

  The Committee on Finance is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Thursday, April 6, 2017, at 10 a.m., in 215 Dirksen 
Senate Office Building, to conduct a hearing entitled ``The 2017 Tax 
Filing Season: Internal Revenue Service Operations and the Taxpayer 
Experience.''


                          Committee on Finance

  The Committee on Finance is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Thursday, April 6, 2017, at 9:30 a.m., in 215 Dirksen 
Senate Office Building, to consider the nomination of Robert 
Lighthizer, of Florida, to be United States Trade Representative.


                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, April 6, 2017 at 11 a.m., to hold a 
business meeting.


                       Committee on Intelligence

  The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet 
during the session of the 115th Congress of the U.S. Senate on 
Thursday, April 6, 2017 at 2 p.m., in room SH-219 of the Senate Hart 
Office Building.


        Subcommittee on Aviation Operations, Safety and Security

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to hold a meeting during the session of the Senate on Thursday, April 
6, 2017, at 10 a.m. in room 253 of the Russell Senate Office Building.
  The Committee will hold Subcommittee Hearing on FAA Reauthorization: 
Perspectives on Rural Air Service and the General Aviation Community.


       Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs and Federal Management

  The Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs and Federal Management of the 
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, April 6, 2017 at 
10 a.m. in order to conduct a roundtable entitled, ``Case Studies in 
Personnel Management Reform in Federal Agencies.''

                          ____________________



