

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H316]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           JACKI DIXON MARSH

  (Mr. POLIS asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. POLIS. Mr. Speaker, today, I would like to talk about a 
constituent in my district, Jacki Dixon Marsh. Jacki is anentrepreneur. 
She owns a historic storefront in downtown Loveland. In fact, she is 
the only woman who owns commercial space inthe neighborhood. She runs a 
gallery featuring the work of over 100 local artisans, actively 
supporting jobs and contributing toour community.
  Jacki was also a competitive long-distance runner. In 1972, she won 
the first women's only road race in New York, and shecontinues to run.
  Finally, she has a pacemaker. She suffers from cardiomyopathy, a rare 
heart disease she developed after contracting the flu.While the doctor 
gave her only 2 years to live, she exceeded that prognosis by three 
decades, but her health depends onreplacing her pacemaker every 7 to 8 
years.
  Jacki is one of countless Americans for whom insurance through the 
Affordable Care Act is literally a matter of life ordeath. She says she 
pays a lot for her coverage, about 900 a month, but she told me she is 
excited to pay it. Before theAffordable Care Act, her precondition 
meant no coverage at all.
  When I asked Jacki what message she wanted me to share with my 
colleagues in Congress, she made clear that I should sharethe message 
that her situation is not unique. We need to act to make sure that 
people like Jacki continue to have healthcarecoverage rather than 
ending the provisions of the Affordable Care Act that they rely on.

                          ____________________



