

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 27 (Wednesday, February 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 27 (Wednesday, February 15, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H1191]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          AMERICAN HEART MONTH

  (Mr. ROSS asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. ROSS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize American Heart Month 
and the need to encourage and support one another to be proactive in 
preventative heart care.
  I would like to thank President Trump for honoring the tradition of 
dedicating February as American Heart Month so that we may continue our 
fight against heart disease and heart defects as a nation.
  Heart disease is the leading cause of death in the United States. 
Every year, one in four deaths is caused by heart disease, and 
approximately 40,000 babies are born in the U.S. with a congenital 
heart defect, including myself.
  The good news is that heart disease can often be detected earlier and 
even prevented when we are proactive, make healthy choices, manage our 
health conditions, and keep up with our annual physicals.
  Communities, health professionals, and families can work together to 
create opportunities for people to make healthier life choices and to 
lessen the stigma and fear of simply going to the doctor.
  As this is American Heart Month, I encourage all Americans to use 
this month to raise awareness about heart disease and heart defects, 
and how we can prevent, treat, and cope with them, both at home and 
throughout our communities.
  Through the support of my family and friends, the guidance of my 
doctors, and the grace of God, I am blessed to be standing here to 
support those across our Nation who are affected in some way by heart 
disease and heart defects. My prayers and thoughts go out to every one 
of you.
  I ask my colleagues to join me in promoting American Heart Month so 
that we can all help save precious lives.

                          ____________________



