

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 10 (Tuesday, January 17, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 10 (Tuesday, January 17, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S341]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

      100TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE BLUE WATER AREA CHAMBER OF COMMERCE

 Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize the Blue 
Water Area Chamber of Commerce on the occasion of its 100th 
anniversary. The chamber was founded in 1906 by a group of 
businessowners and entrepreneurs in Port Huron who volunteered their 
time and financial resources to the growth of the greater Port Huron-
Marysville community.
  Within its first year, the chamber had accomplished its goal of 
encouraging economic growth with the addition of new factories and the 
establishment of an industrial enterprise fund. Its work attracted new 
business from around Michigan, Illinois, and Kentucky. By the time the 
chamber was officially incorporated in 1917, it had grown to 905 
members. This expansion allowed the chamber to begin to improve the 
well-being of the Port Huron community, a tradition that continues to 
this day.
  Throughout its history, the Blue Water Area Chamber of Commerce has 
been more than just a way to connect businesses in the Port Huron area. 
It continually advocates for the community. Over the past few years, 
the chamber has led initiatives that have addressed housing shortages, 
advocated for improved conditions in our schools through finance reform 
and millage campaigns, and supported campaigns to improve our regional 
infrastructure. It has fought, time and time again, not just for better 
business, but for the prosperity of the entire Blue Water region.
  Today the Blue Water Area Chamber of Commerce continues its great 
tradition of fostering economic prosperity and community improvement. 
The guiding force throughout the last century has been the chamber's 
five core values: integrity, relationships, freedom, excellence, and 
happiness. By adhering to these values, they have grown and continued 
to succeed. In 2007, the Blue Water Area Chamber of Commerce was 
awarded the Chamber of the Year Award from the Michigan Association of 
Chamber Professionals. It received this great honor again in 2010, for 
its continued and outstanding work in advocacy, education, and 
assistance programs to its community, a true testament to the 
membership and leadership. The growth we have seen in the Port Huron 
over the past few years has been remarkable, and the Blue Water Chamber 
has been a critical component of that success and progress.
  I am pleased today to ask my colleagues to join me in recognizing 
such an auspicious milestone for the Blue Water Area Chamber of 
Commerce. On its 100th anniversary, the chamber and its members have 
much to celebrate, and I wish them continuing success and prosperity in 
the years ahead.

                          ____________________



