

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 51 (Thursday, March 23, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 51 (Thursday, March 23, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1941]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  TERROR ATTACK IN THE UNITED KINGDOM

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I would like to start by taking a 
moment to offer sincere condolences to our friends in the United 
Kingdom who lost loved ones in yesterday's horrific terror attack. Our 
prayers are with those who were severely injured, as well, and we wish 
them a swift and full recovery.
  This act of terror occurred on the 
1-year anniversary of the devastating attack in Brussels, and as Prime 
Minister May pointed out, the location of the attack seems to be no 
coincidence. ``The terrorist chose to strike at the heart of the [the 
UK's] capital city,'' Prime Minister May said yesterday, ``where people 
of all nationalities, religions and cultures come together to celebrate 
the values of liberty, democracy and freedom of speech.''
  I know I speak on behalf of my colleagues when I say that our 
thoughts are also with those who were in Parliament at the time of the 
attack, serving their country much in the same way that we do in this 
Chamber every day.
  Of course, I want to also acknowledge the law enforcement personnel 
and first responders who courageously put their lives on the line for 
their fellow citizens. We know that the capable security services of 
the British, working in cooperation with our own, will continue to 
investigate whether this was a radicalized individual actor or a 
terrorist connected to an ISIL external operation.
  Our friends face difficult days ahead as they begin to heal from this 
senseless act, but as they do so, we want them to know that the United 
States stands with them as a friend, as a cherished ally and as a 
united partner against terror.

                          ____________________



