

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H441-H448]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   SEC REGULATORY ACCOUNTABILITY ACT

  The Committee resumed its sitting.


               Amendment No. 4 Offered by Mr. DeSaulnier

  The Acting CHAIR (Mr. Palmer). It is now in order to consider 
amendment No. 4 printed in part A of House Report115-3.
  Mr. DeSAULNIER. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       At the end of the bill, add the following new section:

     SEC. 5. DIVESTITUREREQUIREMENT.

       The amendment made by section 2 shall not take effect until 
     the Chairman of the Securities and ExchangeCommission, and 
     all immediate family members of the Chairman, divests all 
     securities owned by the Chairman and such immediatefamily 
     members of the Chairman from any financial institution 
     regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission to ensure 
     thatproper and fair rule-making is administered in accordance 
     with this Act.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 40, the gentleman from 
California (Mr. DeSaulnier) and a Member opposedeach will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California.
  Mr. DeSAULNIER. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of this amendment to the SEC 
Regulatory Accountability Act in a spirit of cooperation. It ismost 
important for the integrity of the SEC, for the investor community, for 
the entire U.S. population, and indeed for theeconomic benefit of the 
United States that integrity and transparency are paramount. So this 
amendment strengthens the bill, Ibelieve, on behalf of the American 
investor as well as industry by reaffirming transparency as a core 
principle of efficientmarkets and places public service ahead of 
personal gain.
  By requiring the head of the SEC and his immediate family members to 
divest themselves of all securities connected to thefinancial 
institutions regulated by the agency, we reinforce investor confidence 
that agency decisions are driven by marketforces, not the portfolio of 
the Chair.
  Mr. Chairman, the power and stability of U.S. markets rely on the 
fundamental belief that the system is transparent andfair. Anything 
that causes investors to question the integrity of the U.S. markets, 
including lack of information or opaquenessof information, will 
necessarily hurt our markets and make capital formation more difficult.
  The SEC plays a critical role in promoting adequate transparency. 
Requiring the SEC Chairperson to cut financial ties withinstitutions 
that the SEC oversees is a commonsense protection of the agency's 
credibility and improvement to the underlyingbill in my belief.
  I hope my Republican colleagues agree and will support this amendment 
that puts public service ahead of potential personalgain.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. HUIZENGA. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to this amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Michigan is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. HUIZENGA. Mr. Chairman, again, I think we are stumbling over the 
fact that my colleagues on the other side of the aislebelieve that we 
are somehow paid by the words put into the Federal Registry here.
  The SEC is already covered by both governmentwide ethics laws and 
regulations as well as SEC supplemental ethics regulationswhich apply 
to all SEC employees, including the Chair.
  Perhaps the sponsor of the amendment is not aware that under existing 
Federal law, the SEC Chairman cannot participatepersonally in any 
matter that would have a direct and predictable effect on her financial 
interests or imputed financialinterest, and I would invite the sponsor 
to review the code at this point.
  Additionally, SEC supplemental regulations prohibit SEC employees, 
including the Chair, from holding any security in adirectly regulated 
entity, and they must also preclear all purchases and sales of 
securities.
  Further, the Chairman or Commissioner must not engage in any other 
business, employment, or vocation while in office, normay she ever use 
the power of her office or the influence of her name to promote the 
business interests of others.
  Finally, the amendment does not seem to address what I believe 
Congressman DeSaulnier's description is intending toaddress as it is 
the Federal Reserve, not the Securities and Exchange Commission, that 
regulates the too-big-to-fail banks or,as the amendment states, 
financial institutions.
  The SEC does not regulate financial institutions. The code defines 
the term ``financial institution,'' and the definitionincludes ``a 
bank, a foreign bank, and a savings association.''
  Since the SEC does not regulate any of these entities, the amendment 
would require the SEC Chair to divest of exactly zeroentities. So 
notwithstanding that important discrepancy here, I ask my colleagues to 
join me in opposing the amendment.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. DeSAULNIER. Mr. Chairman, I honestly respect the tutorial, but, 
with all due respect, I do think that thisamendment complements the 
existing rules and protects the investors.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield such time as she may consume to the gentlewoman 
from Wisconsin (Ms. Moore).
  Ms. MOORE. I thank the chairman. I really appreciate the gentleman, 
Mr. DeSaulnier, for bringing forth this amendment.
  Disclosures of and divestment in conflicts are becoming increasingly 
important in this administration coming up. Theconflicts that we know 
about and the conflicts that we suspect exist with President-elect 
Trump and his nominees have become atremendous source of concern as not 
only do they undermine the faith and fairness of U.S. financial 
markets, as has been pointedout, but, quite frankly, they have become a 
matter of national security concern.
  The amendments that were rejected by Ranking Member Waters and this 
amendment by Representative DeSaulniertogether restore confidence that 
the U.S. financial system is not being manipulated for the gain of a 
few government officials.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge all of my colleagues to support this amendment.
  Mr. HUIZENGA. Mr. Chairman, at this time I am prepared to close, and 
I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. DeSAULNIER. Mr. Chairman, with all due respect, I really think 
this is, as intended, a commonsense amendment. I dothink it complements 
rather than adds on to the existing requirements to protect investors. 
And I really think this House, withall due respect, would want to see 
the markets work efficiently. We also want to ensure that the integrity 
of those markets andthe investors are also strengthened. So I think 
transparency in this case with the acknowledgment that there are other 
alreadyexisting regulations and the belief that this amendment 
complements those, I would ask for the House's support.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.

                              {time}  1600

  Mr. HUIZENGA. Mr. Chairman, I would just point out again that this

[[Page H442]]

amendment does not hit the target. The SEC does notregulate financial 
institutions. 15 U.S.C. 78c defines the term ``financial 
institutions,'' and that definition includes a bank,a foreign bank, and 
a savings association. The SEC does not regulate any of the entities 
that are described in this.
  In addition to that, the Securities and Exchange Commission's Chair--
Chairwoman in this instance, who will be resigningsoon--is covered 
under governmentwide ethics rules and laws. The SEC has additional SEC-
specific rules that are in place. Thisamendment would do absolutely 
nothing to support or diminish those because it doesn't actually 
address any situation that theyhave.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from California (Mr. DeSaulnier).
  The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the noes 
appeared to have it.
  Mr. DeSAULNIER. Mr. Chairman, I demand a recorded vote.
  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further 
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman fromCalifornia 
will be postponed.


                 Amendment No. 5 Offered by Mr. Raskin

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 5 
printed in part A of House Report 115-3.
  Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       At the end of the bill, add the following new section:

     SEC. 5. TRAINING REQUIREMENTFOR THE CHAIRMAN AND 
                   COMMISSIONERS OF THE SEC.

       The amendment made by section 2 shall not take effect until 
     the Chairman andeach Commissioner of the Securities and 
     Exchange Commission undergoes effective training on conduct 
     and ethical standards toensure all actions of the Commission 
     are done in a manner free of conflicts of interest, 
     specifically those related to prioremployment at financial 
     institutions and prior legal representation of financial 
     institutions.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 40, the gentleman from 
Maryland (Mr. Raskin) and a Member opposed eachwill control 5 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Maryland.
  Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Chairman, this amendment would require both the 
Chairman of the SEC and all of its Commissioners to undergoa 
comprehensive, professional ethics training in order to ensure that all 
SEC regulations and actions are free from conflicts ofinterest that may 
arise from their past or future employment or by legal representation 
of regulated entities.
  This training into all of the ethical standards that were just 
invoked by my distinguished colleague from Michigan iscritical to guard 
against regulatory capture and to protect the public interest. The 
whole challenge of a republic is how to getlegislators and other public 
officers, who are agents of the people, to serve the common good rather 
than their own, privateinterests. In the cost-benefit terms of this 
legislation, you would call this the ``agency problem.'' Our 
Constitution, witheverything from the separation of powers to the 
Emoluments Clause, to the Title of Nobility Clause is designed to 
safeguard thepublic interest and to reduce the prospects for mischief, 
corruption, and self-dealing by people in government. 
Providingmandatory ethics training is a simple way to remind all of us 
in public life whom we really work for--the American people.
  Requiring employees to undergo basic ethics training is not unusual. 
In fact, every congressional staffer who works in thisbody is required 
to undergo ethics training in his or her first 60 days of employment 
here. The freshman class, of which I am aproud member, just had an 
excellent briefing on professional ethics standards a couple of weeks 
ago.
  Under this amendment, Congress will be able to ensure that the SEC 
officials who are making the critical rules that governthe financial 
securities industry are looking out for the American people and not for 
any particular special interest.
  Conflicts of interest have been rife in the financial sector. In 
2008, while Wall Street and big banks preyed on the victimsof the 
mortgage crisis, American families lost trillions of dollars in 
retirement values, home values, equity, and so on.
  This amendment would implement a simple safeguard, ensuring that the 
people who regulate the financial sector are notcrossing any ethical 
lines or are bending the rules in favor of past or future employers or 
of any other special interests. Thepeople of the United States expect 
and deserve nothing less from Washington.
  In closing, I urge all of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to 
support this amendment.
  I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. HUIZENGA. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to this amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Michigan is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. HUIZENGA. Mr. Chairman, I believe the sponsor of the amendment 
was in the Chamber when we were discussing this on thelast amendment. 
Federal law, as well as SEC supplemental regulations, already govern 
ethics and conflicts of interest.
  It is well-known, especially if you check out my Twitter account, I 
think, that most people who support this President don'tbelieve I 
support this President enough. A number of people would say that I 
haven't supported the SEC Chairman to the levelthat I should. This, 
frankly, is insulting to the current President as well as the Chair. 
Implying somehow that this Chair haspreyed off of poor people until 
they went bankrupt, as was just sort of laid out by the sponsor of 
this, is an insult.
  To believe this of the SEC Chair, who is typically--and I know in 
this particular case is--a very accomplished professional,is amazingly 
shortsighted, I believe. Additionally, the Chair is required to receive 
personal annual ethics training as well asan initial ethics briefing. I 
direct the sponsor to review the statute on this.
  Additionally, the Chairman and the Commissioners are required to file 
an ethics agreement letter in which she will agree todivest prohibited 
assets, and if she has not done so prior to the appointment, she is to 
recuse herself from matters in whichshe has financial conflict or the 
impartiality conflict, which can be found also in code.
  Finally, the Chairman or a Commissioner is prohibited from engaging 
in any other business, employment, or vocation while inoffice, or she 
may never use the power of her office or her name to promote or 
influence a business interest.
  Once again, I think that what we are trying to do here with the 
underlying bill is to make sure that the SEC follows throughon what the 
courts have mandated in previous rulings in that they use a cost-
benefit analysis. This is not about fraud. This isnot about whether 
Mary Jo White needs ethics training. This is about making sure that the 
SEC has an identifiable target andgoal with the rules that it is 
putting in place and then analyzing whether the costs and the benefits 
weigh in favor ofprotecting the consumer. Ultimately, this amendment 
does nothing to forward that. I oppose the amendment.
  I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Chairman, the gentleman from Michigan has invited us, 
through the various colloquies this afternoon, tobelieve that there is 
a comprehensive ethical regime in place. We agree that there is, but 
what there is not is a requirementthat the Chair of the SEC and each of 
its Commissioners undergo ethics training, the kind of training that 
millions of Americansundergo all the time in order to understand 
precisely what their ethical obligations are. It is as if to say that 
nobody needsto have stop signs or stoplights out there because there is 
a traffic code someplace. There may be, but we need to give theactual 
direction to people who are participating in the activity of 
regulation.
  Nothing that the good gentleman has said persuades me that the ethics 
trainingis actually taking place or that the SEC Commissioners and the 
Chair of the SEC do not need it.

  If anything I said is read by anyone to insult the President of the 
United States or the current Chair of the SEC, then Iwould stand 
corrected. I don't think I said anything that would have

[[Page H443]]

affronted any of them. This is basic ethics trainingthat takes place 
for people across the government. For the life of me, I can't 
understand what the opposition to it is.
  There seems to be a kind of fetishizing of cost-benefit analysis 
above everything else. The Constitution doesn't include thewords 
``cost-benefit.'' There are a whole series of rules that we have in 
there, including the Emoluments Clause, whichestablished the principle 
of no conflicts of interest, no foreign bribery, no domestic bribery, 
no compromising of the integrityof government; and I do not understand 
why we are so afraid of building those principles into the legal 
architecture thatgoverns the Securities and Exchange Commission.
  I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. HUIZENGA. Mr. Chairman, I understand that the sponsor is a 
constitutional law professor.
  I direct the gentleman to 5 CFR 2638.305 and 5 CFR 2638.304, which 
read:

       The Chair of the SECis required to receive in person annual 
     ethics training as well as an initial ethics briefing. 
     Additionally, Chairmen andCommissioners are required to file 
     ethics agreement letters in which they agree to divest.

  The bottom line is that we don't need additional words in the Federal 
Register to do what is already being done.
  The sponsor of the amendment mentioned that cost-benefit analysis is 
not in the U.S. Constitution, but neither is the SEC.However, due 
process is in the Constitution, and what we are trying to get at is due 
process to make sure that we have--us, as alegislative body--properly 
involved and engaged in this and that we understand what the goals and 
objectives of the Securitiesand Exchange Commission are when it is 
issuing a rule and whether that rule is going to effect the change 
intended.
  What are those benefits? Is it going to benefit and protect the 
consumer?
  Again, I reiterate the three elements of the mission of the 
Securities and Exchange Commission: number one, to protectinvestors; 
number two, to maintain fair and orderly and efficient markets; and 
number three, to facilitate capital formation.Those are the stated 
goals and is the job of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
  I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Chairman, I think we have arrived at what the 
difference is between me and the gentleman from Michigan.
  The regulation, as he reads it, applies only to the Chair. This 
amendment would extend the ethics training, which he seemsto support, 
to all of the members of the Securities and Exchange Commission. It is 
true that they all have to do a filing, as weall do, about our various 
finances, but that is not the comprehensive ethical training that all 
of us need to get in order toavoid conflicts of interest. So, if that 
is something that is good enough for the Chair, it is, presumably, good 
enough for allof the members of the SEC.
  I would urge my colleague to rethink his opposition to this 
commonsense amendment, which, I think, would install preciselywhat the 
American people are asking of us, which is that all of us pay attention 
to public ethics in the conduct of our duties.
  I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. HUIZENGA. Mr. Chairman, I maintain my opposition to this 
amendment.
  I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Maryland (Mr. Raskin).
  The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the noes 
appeared to have it.
  Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Chairman, I demand a recorded vote.
  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further 
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman fromMaryland will 
be postponed.


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, proceedings 
will now resume on those amendments printed in part A ofHouse Report 
115-3 on which further proceedings were postponed, in the following 
order:
  Amendment No. 1 by Mr. Al Green of Texas.
  Amendment No. 3 by Mr. Al Green of Texas.
  Amendment No. 4 by Mr. DeSaulnier of California.
  Amendment No. 5 by Mr. Raskin of Maryland.
  The Chair will reduce to 2 minutes the minimum time for any 
electronic vote after the first vote in this series.


            Amendment No. 1 Offered by Mr. Al Green of Texas

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman fromTexas (Mr. 
Al Green) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which the 
noes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 192, 
noes 233, not voting 9, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 46]

                               AYES--192

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Becerra
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costa
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Cummings
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle,Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty
     Evans
     Foster
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Jones
     Kaptur
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Rice(NY)
     Richmond
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth

                               NOES--233

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Beutler
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Bridenstine
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Chaffetz
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins(NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Costello (PA)
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davidson
     Davis,Rodney
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Diaz-Balart
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Garrett
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Graves (MO)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson(OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Katko
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     LoBiondo
     Long
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     MacArthur
     Marchant

[[Page H444]]


     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Meehan
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Posey
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Roskam
     Ross
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Sanford
     Scalise
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tiberi
     Tipton
     Trott
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                             NOT VOTING--9

     Frankel (FL)
     Mulvaney
     Neal
     Pompeo
     Price, Tom (GA)
     Rutherford
     Ryan (OH)
     Walker
     Zinke

                              {time}  1635

  Mr. SIMPSON, Ms. CHENEY, and Mr. GOHMERT changed their vote from 
``aye'' to ``no.''
  Messrs. PASCRELL and LOWENTHAL changed their vote from ``no'' to 
``aye.''
  So the amendment was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


            Amendment No. 3 Offered by Mr. Al Green of Texas

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman fromTexas (Mr. 
Al Green) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which the 
noes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 191, 
noes 232, not voting 11, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 47]

                               AYES--191

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Becerra
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     BluntRochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu,Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costa
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Cummings
     Davis(CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, MichaelF.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty
     Evans
     Foster
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green,Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     JacksonLee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Jones
     Kaptur
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham,M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney,Sean
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott,David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     WatsonColeman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth

                               NOES--232

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Beutler
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Bridenstine
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Chaffetz
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Costello (PA)
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Diaz-Balart
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Garrett
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Graves(MO)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Katko
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     LoBiondo
     Long
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     MacArthur
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Meehan
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Peters
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Posey
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Roskam
     Ross
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Sanford
     Scalise
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Sinema
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tiberi
     Tipton
     Trott
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber(TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                             NOT VOTING--11

     Brat
     Cramer
     Frankel (FL)
     LaMalfa
     Marchant
     Mulvaney
     Pompeo
     Price, Tom (GA)
     Rutherford
     Ryan (OH)
     Zinke


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1640

  So the amendment was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


               Amendment No. 4 Offered by Mr. DeSaulnier

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman fromCalifornia 
(Mr. DeSaulnier) on which further proceedings were postponed and on 
which the noes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 194, 
noes 233, not voting 7, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 48]

                               AYES--194

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Becerra
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     BluntRochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu,Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costa
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Cummings
     Davis(CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett

[[Page H445]]


     Doyle,Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty
     Evans
     Fitzpatrick
     Foster
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gonzalez(TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Jones
     Kaptur
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham,M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney,Sean
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott,David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     WatsonColeman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth

                               NOES--233

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Beutler
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Bridenstine
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Chaffetz
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Costello (PA)
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Diaz-Balart
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Garrett
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Graves(MO)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Katko
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     LoBiondo
     Long
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     MacArthur
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Meehan
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Posey
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Roskam
     Ross
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Sanford
     Scalise
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith(NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tiberi
     Tipton
     Trott
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber(TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                             NOT VOTING--7

     Frankel (FL)
     Mulvaney
     Pompeo
     Price, Tom (GA)
     Rutherford
     Ryan(OH)
     Zinke

                              {time}  1646

  So the amendment was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


                 Amendment No. 5 Offered by Mr. Raskin

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman fromMaryland 
(Mr. Raskin) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which 
the noes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 196, 
noes 231, not voting 7, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 49]

                               AYES--196

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Becerra
     Bera
     Beutler
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu,Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costa
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Cummings
     Davis(CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     Dent
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle,Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty
     Evans
     Fitzpatrick
     Foster
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gonzalez(TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Jones
     Kaptur
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham,M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney,Sean
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott,David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     WatsonColeman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth

                               NOES--231

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Bridenstine
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Chaffetz
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Costello (PA)
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Denham
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Diaz-Balart
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Garrett
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Graves(MO)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Katko
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     LoBiondo
     Long
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     MacArthur
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Meehan
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Posey
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reichert

[[Page H446]]


     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Roskam
     Ross
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Sanford
     Scalise
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith(NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tiberi
     Tipton
     Trott
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber(TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                             NOT VOTING--7

     Frankel (FL)
     Mulvaney
     Pompeo
     Price, Tom (GA)
     Rutherford
     Ryan(OH)
     Zinke


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1650

  So the amendment was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
  The Acting CHAIR. There being no further amendments, under the rule, 
the Committee rises.
  Accordingly, the Committee rose; and the Speaker pro tempore (Mr. 
Simpson) having assumed the chair, Mr. Palmer,Acting Chair of the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union, reported that 
that Committee, having had underconsideration the bill (H.R. 78) to 
improve the consideration by the Securities and Exchange Commission of 
the costs andbenefits of its regulations and orders, and, pursuant to 
House Resolution 40, he reported the bill back to the House with 
anamendment adopted in the Committee of the Whole.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under the rule, the previous question is 
ordered.
  The question is on the amendment.
  The amendment was agreed to.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the engrossment and third 
reading of the bill.
  The bill was ordered to be engrossed and read a third time, and was 
read the third time.


                           Motion to Recommit

  Mrs. BUSTOS. Mr. Speaker, I have a motion to recommit at the desk.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the gentlewoman opposed to the bill?
  Mrs. BUSTOS. Mr. Speaker, I am opposed.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Clerk will report the motion to 
recommit.
  The Clerk read as follows:

       Mrs. Bustos moves to recommit thebill, H.R. 78 to the 
     Committee on Financial Services with instructions to report 
     the same back to the House forthwith, with thefollowing 
     amendment:
       Page 4, after line 25, insert the following:
       ``(C) Consideration of the potential outsourcingof u.s. 
     jobs.--In making a reasoned determination of the costs and 
     benefits of a proposed regulation, the Commission shall, 
     tothe extent that it is relevant to the proposed particular 
     regulation, consider whether market participants would have 
     anincentive to relocate their operations outside of the 
     United States.''.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentlewoman from 
Illinois (Mrs. Bustos) is recognized for 5 minutesin support of her 
motion.
  Mrs. BUSTOS. Mr. Speaker, this final amendment says plainly that the 
Securities and Exchange Commission should take intoaccount whether any 
proposed rule will have an impact on outsourcing American jobs.
  Many of us, especially those of us in the industrial heartland, 
represent regions that have experienced serious job lossesbecause of 
companies sending jobs overseas. I will tell you a little bit about 
mine.
  I have the honor of serving Illinois' 17th Congressional District. 
Most of my district is rural. It spans 7,000 squaremiles, 14 counties, 
and covers the entire northwestern region of the State of Illinois. We 
are the world headquarters for JohnDeere. You have probably seen the 
tractors or the combines out there on the farmland.
  We are also the world headquarters for Caterpillar, and, as you have 
traveled around our country and around our world, youhave probably also 
seen the yellow, big, earth-moving equipment. That comes from my 
congressional district.
  But like many parts of our heartland, our region has seen far too 
many manufacturing jobs shipped overseas. I am going togive you a 
couple of examples.
  In a town called Galesburg, Illinois, we had a Maytag plant that made 
refrigerators. Overnight, every last one of those jobswas shipped to 
Mexico. A dozen years later, the wages there still have not recovered 
because of that outsourcing.
  We have a town called Hanover, Illinois, a little, bitty town in 
northwestern Illinois. There was a plant called Robertshaw.They made 
little valves that go inside of washing machines and dishwashers that 
measured the water that would flow through.There was nearly a zero 
percent defect rate on what was produced out of that plant, and the 
company was profitable. And yet,every last one of those jobs went to 
Mexico.
  And then we had a company called Sensata. They made auto part 
sensors, and it was bought out by a company called BainCapital. You 
might know a little bit about this company called Bain Capital. And 
they shipped every one of those jobs over toChina.
  I have made friends with a lot of the workers there, one of whom is 
named Dot Turner. She had worked there for 40-plusyears, started right 
out of high school. And she had the indignity of--the last function 
that she had to do at that plant was toscrape the tape off the floor 
that laid the area for where the machinery had been; that was what she 
had to do.
  So I am here to tell you those stories, but also to say that this is 
happening to way too many workers. Men and women likeDot Turner 
understand the dignity that comes with having a good job and putting in 
a good, hard day's work. They understand thata good career is a pathway 
to a better future for themselves and for their families. But too many 
people like Dot have been leftbehind.
  So what are we going to do? What is ahead?
  In just 9 days, President-elect Trump will take the oath of office 
after running on a platform of making America greatagain. He said he 
would do that by bringing home jobs that had been sent overseas.
  Well, many my colleagues on this side of the aisle have been fighting 
to protect American jobs for years. In fact, we haveput forth real 
solutions to spur growth in the manufacturing sector and get our middle 
class back to work. We have introducedmore than 80 bills in our Make It 
In America agenda, but we have been blocked at so many turns.
  So what kind of legislation is making it to the House floor instead? 
Bills like the one we are going to be voting on soon;bills that would 
make it more difficult for the Securities and Exchange Commission to 
protect investors and consumers, wouldmake it more difficult for that 
to happen, and bills that would gamble the retirement savings of 
everyday Americans as if wewere a Trump casino.
  Working families deserve more than a bumper sticker slogan. They know 
that talk can be cheap in a place like Washington,D.C., and they are 
tired of politicians putting billionaires over the little guy. That is 
why this motion would ensure that ourfocus is on bringing back 
outsourced jobs.
  Working families need to know that we here in Washington are fighting 
for them. Please join me, and let's show the Americanpeople that we are 
serious about this issue.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. HUIZENGA. Mr. Speaker, I claim the time in opposition.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman from Michigan is recognized 
for 5 minutes.
  Mr. HUIZENGA. Mr. Speaker, I have to commend my colleague. This is 
close, but this isn't horseshoes. Words have meaning. AndI have to tell 
you that our underlying bill does actually do what you are talking 
about.

                              {time}  1700

  I will direct you to page 4.
  Page 4: ``evaluate whether, consistent with obtaining regulatory 
objectives, the regulation is tailored to impose the leastburden on 
society, including market participants, individuals, businesses of 
different sizes, and other entities, includingState and local 
government entities, taking into account, to the extent practicable, 
the cumulative costs of regulations.''

[[Page H447]]

  So, what we have here, Mr. Speaker, is a problem. We have a problem 
with U.S. businesses not performing the way that theyshould. We have to 
understand, though, why that is happening.
  I have to point out to my colleague that, frankly, we have fewer 
publicly traded companies in this country right now. Youhave to ask 
yourself why.
  We have virtually no IPOs happening in this country. You have to ask 
yourself why.
  Well, we know the answer. It is because we have overly burdened 
ourselves in this country and are no longer competitive.
  In fact, here is what I look forward to on January 21: I look forward 
to repealing the Tax Code that we have, and then wedon't have to worry; 
I am looking forward to repealing ObamaCare, and then we don't have to 
worry; I am looking forward to realregulatory reform, and then we don't 
have to worry about that as a country.
  So, while this may be close on the objective of what our sponsor is 
trying to do, I would recommend voting against thismotion to recommit 
and vote for the underlying bill.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without objection, the previous question is 
ordered on the motion to recommit.
  There was no objection.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion to recommit.
  The question was taken; and the Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the noes appeared to have it.


                             Recorded Vote

  Mrs. BUSTOS. Mr. Speaker, I demand a recorded vote.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. This will be a 5-minute vote.
  Pursuant to clause 9 of rule XX, this 5-minute vote on the motion to 
recommit will be followed by a 5-minute vote on passageof the bill, if 
ordered.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 195, 
noes 232, not voting 7, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 50]

                               AYES--195

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Becerra
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blum
     Blumenauer
     BluntRochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu,Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costa
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Cummings
     Davis(CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, MichaelF.
     Duncan (TN)
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty
     Evans
     Foster
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Jones
     Kaptur
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham,M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney,Sean
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott,David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     WatsonColeman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth

                               NOES--232

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Beutler
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Bridenstine
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Chaffetz
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Costello (PA)
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Diaz-Balart
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Garrett
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Graves(MO)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Katko
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     LoBiondo
     Long
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     MacArthur
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Meehan
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Posey
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Roskam
     Ross
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Sanford
     Scalise
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith(NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tiberi
     Tipton
     Trott
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber(TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                             NOT VOTING--7

     Frankel (FL)
     Mulvaney
     Pompeo
     Price, Tom (GA)
     Rutherford
     Ryan(OH)
     Zinke

                              {time}  1706

  So the motion to recommit was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the passage of the bill.
  The question was taken; and the Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it.


                             Recorded Vote

  Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California. Mr. Speaker, I demand a recorded 
vote.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. This will be a 5-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 243, 
noes 184, not voting 7, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 51]

                               AYES--243

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Beutler
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (GA)
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Bridenstine
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Cardenas
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Chaffetz
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Costello (PA)
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Cuellar
     Culberson
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Diaz-Balart
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Garrett
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gottheimer
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves(LA)
     Graves (MO)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Katko
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lance

[[Page H448]]


     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     LoBiondo
     Long
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     MacArthur
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Meehan
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Peters
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Posey
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Rosen
     Roskam
     Ross
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Sanford
     Scalise
     Schrader
     Schweikert
     Scott,Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Sinema
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Suozzi
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tiberi
     Tipton
     Trott
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber(TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                               NOES--184

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Becerra
     Bera
     Beyer
     Blumenauer
     BluntRochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Carson(IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costa
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cummings
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, MichaelF.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty
     Evans
     Foster
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Green, Al
     Green,Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     JacksonLee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Jones
     Kaptur
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham,M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney,Sean
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Scott (VA)
     Scott,David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson(CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     WassermanSchultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth

                             NOT VOTING--7

     Frankel(FL)
     Mulvaney
     Pompeo
     Price, Tom (GA)
     Rutherford
     Ryan (OH)
     Zinke

                              {time}  1712

  So the bill was passed.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



