

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H397]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    PROTECT THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
California (Mr. Correa) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to protect the Affordable Care 
Act. Today I urge you to give the Affordable Care Actthe same chance we 
gave America's other great healthcare program, Medicare, way back in 
1965.
  Today Medicare covers over 55 million Americans and is a staple for 
senior care. But let's go back in time and remember whatpeople were 
saying about Medicare in 1965. The American Medical Association said 
Medicare is an ``invasion of the voluntaryrelationship between the 
patient and the physician.''
  The then-Republican leadership said the bill will cost too much. It 
will never cover enough seniors. It will make taxes toohigh, and we 
will be broke within 2 years.
  Those are some of the quotes from The New York Times in 1965.
  Today, 52 years later, Medicare is one of the most efficient 
healthcare systems in our country. Why? Because we gave it achance to 
flourish.
  Mr. Speaker, when we come together on behalf of the American people, 
we get things done. I ask my colleagues today: Do notrepeal the 
Affordable Care Act. Instead, let's move past the politics of repealing 
the ACA. Let's learn from five decades ofMedicare. Let's give Americans 
the healthcare coverage they want and they deserve, because in 60 
years, it won't really matterwhose name is on the program. But what 
will matter is that we came together and stopped the repeal. What will 
matter is that wefixed the ACA and made it work for every American.
  The American people deserve good health care. If folks have issues 
with the ACA, then let's fix those issues. Let's make theACA better. 
But to rip coverage from 30 million people, to destroy 2.6 million 
jobs, and to add $350 billion to our deficit isnot a good thing.
  I ask my colleagues today to keep the ACA.

                          ____________________



