

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 39 (Tuesday, March 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 39 (Tuesday, March 7, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1633-S1634]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       TRIBUTE TO CHARLES THOMAS

  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I want to take a few moments to 
acknowledge Charles Thomas, a veteran broadcast journalist and 
political reporter. Last week, after a career spanning four decades, 
Charles Thomas appeared in his final newscast at ABC 7 Chicago.
  Born in Webster Groves, MO, Charles grew up in the St. Louis area and 
graduated from the University of Missouri-Columbia School of 
Journalism. Shortly after graduation, Charles began his career as a 
radio reporter at KCMO in Kansas City. He has also worked in news 
stations in San Francisco and Philadelphia before becoming the ABC News 
bureau Midwest correspondent in St. Louis. In 1991, Charles was hired 
as a general assignment reporter at ABC 7 Chicago and later named to 
the coveted position of political reporter in 2009.
  Since joining ABC 7's ``Eyewitness News'' in 1991, its newscast was 
and remains the most watched TV news in Chicago. On Charles's 25th 
anniversary at the station, he said: ``I am very blessed to have worked 
here and like to think that my efforts have had something to do with 
that success.'' As an avid viewer, I am here to say it has. His unique 
perspective and keen ability to tell stories make him invaluable to any 
newsroom. Let me tell you, Charles asks the tough questions and holds 
us all accountable. As the politician often in the crosshairs, I can 
tell you I knew Charles was always prepared and ready to challenge any 
weak response. I speak for all of Chicago when I say Charles Thomas 
will be missed.
  For more than a quarter century, Charles has covered the biggest 
stories in the country--the OJ Simpson Trial, Oklahoma City bombing, 
Rodney King trials, Great Chicago Flood, and the election of the first 
African-American President, to name just a few. He truly had a front 
row seat to history. He even joined then-Senator Barack Obama on a trip 
to Africa in 2006. His remarkable career has taken him to every State 
in America and five continents, and he leaves with no regrets. 
Reflecting on his years covering national, State, and local politics, 
he said: ``Without a moment's hesitation, I can look back and say I had 
the best TV reporting job in America.''
  Charles Thomas has had an amazing career. His work earned him two 
Emmy awards for reporting in 1983 and 1992. Although he is retiring, 
Charles is not done telling stories. He plans to explore digital 
storytelling focusing on the African-American community, celebrating 
positive stories often missing in local and national broadcasts--what a 
noble and necessary endeavor. I am heartened that Charles will remain 
an inspirational voice in the community.
  I want to congratulate Charles Thomas on his distinguished career and 
thank him for his outstanding service to the people of Chicago. I 
especially want to thank Charles's wife, Maria, and their three 
children for sharing so much of their husband and father with our 
community. I wish him and his family all the best in their next 
chapter.

[[Page S1634]]

  

                          ____________________



