

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 45 (Wednesday, March 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 45 (Wednesday, March 15, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2062]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




 DENNIS COUNIHAN SELECTED AS SAVANNAH'S ST. PATRICK'S DAY PARADE GRAND 
                                MARSHAL

  (Mr. CARTER of Georgia asked and was given permission to address the 
House for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate Mr. 
Dennis Counihan for being named grand marshal of Savannah's 2017 St. 
Patrick's Day Parade. The annual St. Patrick's Day Parade in Savannah 
has been a beloved local tradition and an important family affair since 
its beginning in 1824.
  Welcoming visitors from all over the world to celebrate its Irish 
heritage, Savannah astonishingly hosts the third largest St. Patrick's 
Day Parade in the world and the second largest in the United States. As 
such, the position of grand marshal is not to be taken lightly. This 
year there were a record-setting six nominees vying for the position, 
but Mr. Counihan rose above the rest due to his experience and 
dedication to Savannah.
  Mr. Counihan's love for his community is emphasized through his work 
with the Hollander Senior Living company, where he purchases old real 
estate to be redesigned as nursing homes.
  It seems as if Mr. Counihan was destined to be grand marshal, 
considering his family's role in the parade over the years. His brother 
Brian is currently the parade chairman, and his father, Michael, served 
as the parade's grand marshal in 1988.
  Mr. Counihan has been on the parade committee since 1980. He 
certainly knows the dedicated effort that goes into making this event 
special and successful.
  Congratulations, Mr. Counihan, on this great honor. I look forward to 
seeing the new additions you will bring to the parade.

                          ____________________



