

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 41 (Thursday, March 9, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 41 (Thursday, March 9, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1743-S1744]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 116

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 116, a bill to amend title 
10, United States Code, to permit veterans who have a service-
connected, permanent disability rated as total to travel on military 
aircraft in the same manner and to the same extent as retired members 
of the Armed Forces entitled to such travel.


                                 S. 129

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Ms. Murkowski) was added as a cosponsor of S. 129, a bill to 
reauthorize and amend the National Sea Grant College Program Act, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 200

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Sanders) was added as a cosponsor of S. 200, a bill to prohibit 
the conduct of a first-use nuclear strike absent a declaration of war 
by Congress.


                                 S. 261

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the names of the Senator from Maine (Ms. 
Collins) and the Senator from Arkansas (Mr. Cotton) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 261, a bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
Cosmetic Act to improve and clarify certain disclosure requirements for 
restaurants and similar retail food establishments, and to amend the 
authority to bring proceedings under section 403A.


                                 S. 264

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from Texas 
(Mr. Cruz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 264, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow charitable organizations to make 
statements relating to political campaigns if such statements are made 
in ordinary course of carrying out its tax exempt purpose.


                                 S. 379

  At the request of Mr. Whitehouse, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 379, a bill to amend title 
II of the Social Security Act to eliminate the five month waiting 
period for disability insurance benefits under such title for 
individuals with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.


                                 S. 413

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the name of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Moran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 413, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to prohibit prescription drug plan 
sponsors and MA-PD organizations under the Medicare program from 
retroactively reducing payment on clean claims submitted by pharmacies.


                                 S. 419

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the names of the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein), the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. Hirono), the 
Senator from Illinois (Mr. Durbin), the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. 
Blumenthal), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar), the Senator 
from Missouri (Mr. Blunt), the Senator from Minnesota (Mr. Franken), 
the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Whitehouse) and the Senator from 
Vermont (Mr. Leahy) were added as cosponsors of S. 419, a bill to 
require adequate reporting on the Public Safety Officers' Benefits 
program, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 438

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from Nevada (Mr. 
Heller) was added as a cosponsor of S. 438, a bill to encourage 
effective, voluntary investments to recruit, employ, and retain men and 
women who have served in the United States military with annual Federal 
awards to employers recognizing such efforts, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 482

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Isakson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 482, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to treat certain amounts paid for 
physical activity, fitness, and exercise as amounts paid for medical 
care.


                                 S. 488

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the name of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mr. Sasse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 488, a bill to increase the 
threshold for disclosures required by the Securities and Exchange 
Commission relating to compensatory benefit plans, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 543

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the names of the Senator from 
Washington (Mrs. Murray) and the Senator from Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 543, a bill to amend title 38, United 
States Code, to require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to include in 
each contract into which the Secretary enters for necessary services 
authorities and mechanism for appropriate oversight, and for other 
purposes.

[[Page S1744]]

  



                                 S. 544

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 544, a bill to amend 
Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 to modify the 
termination date for the Veterans Choice Program, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 546

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Mr. Heller) was added as a cosponsor of S. 546, a bill to reduce 
temporarily the royalty required to be paid for sodium produced on 
Federal lands, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 569

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from New 
Mexico (Mr. Udall) was added as a cosponsor of S. 569, a bill to amend 
title 54, United States Code, to provide consistent and reliable 
authority for, and for the funding of, the Land and Water Conservation 
Fund to maximize the effectiveness of the Fund for future generations, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 578

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from Utah 
(Mr. Hatch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 578, a bill to amend title 
5, United States Code, to provide requirements for agency decision 
making based on science.


                                 S. 579

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from Utah 
(Mr. Hatch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 579, a bill to require 
agencies to publish an advance notice of proposed rule making for major 
rules.


                                 S. 582

  At the request of Mr. Johnson, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Daines) was added as a cosponsor of S. 582, a bill to reauthorize 
the Office of Special Counsel, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 584

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the names of the Senator from Utah 
(Mr. Hatch) and the Senator from North Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 584, a bill to amend chapter 6 of title 5, United 
States Code (commonly known as the Regulatory Flexibility Act), to 
ensure complete analysis of potential impacts on small entities of 
rules, and for other purposes.


                              S.J. RES. 27

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the names of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue), the names of the Senator from West Virginia (Mrs. 
Capito), the Senator from Wyoming (Mr. Barrasso) and the Senator from 
South Carolina (Mr. Scott) were added as cosponsors of S.J. Res. 27, a 
joint resolution disapproving the rule submitted by the Department of 
Labor relating to ``Clarification of Employer's Continuing Obligation 
to Make and Maintain an Accurate Record of Each Recordable Injury and 
Illness'' .


 =========================== NOTE =========================== 

  
  On page S1744, March 9, 2017, in the first column, the following 
appears: At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the names of the Senator 
from West Virginia (Mrs. Capito), the Senator from Wyoming (Mr. 
Barrasso) and the Senator from South Carolina (Mr. Scott) were 
added as cosponsors of S.J. Res 27 . . .
  
  The online Record has been corrected to read: At the request of 
Mr. Cassidy, the names of the Senator from Georgia (Mr. Perdue), 
the Senator from West Virginia (Mrs. Capito), the Senator from 
Wyoming (Mr. Barrasso) and the Senator from South Carolina (Mr. 
Scott) were added as cosponsors of S.J. Res 27 . . .


 ========================= END NOTE ========================= 



                              S.J. RES. 28

  At the request of Mr. Inhofe, the names of the Senator from Iowa 
(Mrs. Ernst), the Senator from Utah (Mr. Hatch), the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Cochran), the Senator from South Dakota (Mr. Rounds) 
and the Senator from Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) were added as cosponsors 
of S.J. Res. 28, a joint resolution providing for congressional 
disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule 
submitted by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency 
relating to accidental release prevention requirements of risk 
management programs under the Clean Air Act.


                              S.J. RES. 32

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Alaska (Ms. 
Murkowski) was withdrawn as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 32, a joint 
resolution disapproving the rule submitted by the Department of Labor 
relating to savings arrangements established by States for non-
governmental employees.


                              S.J. RES. 33

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Alaska (Ms. 
Murkowski) was withdrawn as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 33, a joint 
resolution disapproving the rule submitted by the Department of Labor 
relating to savings arrangements established by qualified State 
political subdivisions for non-governmental employees.


                             S. CON. RES. 7

  At the request of Mr. Roberts, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Mr. Johnson) was added as a cosponsor of S. Con. Res. 7, a concurrent 
resolution expressing the sense of Congress that tax-exempt fraternal 
benefit societies have historically provided and continue to provide 
critical benefits to the people and communities of the United States.


                               S. RES. 83

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the names of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen), the Senator from Maine (Mr. King) and the 
Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr. Toomey) were added as cosponsors of S. 
Res. 83, a resolution expressing the sense of the Senate regarding the 
trafficking of illicit fentanyl into the United States from Mexico and 
China.

                          ____________________



