

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 37 (Thursday, March 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 37 (Thursday, March 2, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H1468]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




        HONORING THE SERVICE OF PLACER COUNTY SHERIFF ED BONNER

  (Mr. LaMALFA asked and was given permission to address the House for 
1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. LaMALFA. Mr. Speaker, I rise this morning to recognize the 
service, and now the retirement, of our good friend from Placer County, 
Sheriff Ed Bonner, after 42 years of dedicated service to northern 
California and Placer County and its sheriff's department.
  Many would talk about creating a family atmosphere at work, but few 
truly achieve it. Ed Bonner made the families of his officers and his 
staff a priority. He is with them in the best of times and in the 
worst, from the joy of the births of their children, or marriages, to 
the family tragedies, which indeed have been felt by the deputies and 
the brothers and the sisters of Placer County.
  In his 22-year career as a sheriff, he has earned the respect and 
admiration of Placer County and many others throughout the State of 
California.
  He graduated from Cal Berkeley, and has earned the respect of so 
many. He had a bachelor of arts in criminology, and earned a master's 
degree in management science at Cal Poly, Pomona.
  Before his law enforcement days, Ed Bonner was a gifted athlete who 
excelled at track and field, where he still holds multiple State high 
school records. At the University of California, he became the first 4-
year letterman for track and field in the school's history.
  After a distinguished career, which included serving as president of 
the California State Sheriffs' Association, Sheriff Bonner's skills as 
a law enforcement administrator will be greatly missed by all of us in 
the community.
  Now is time, though, for a much-deserved retirement which he can 
spend with his loving wife, Jeannie, his family, and his friends.
  It has been such a pleasure to work with him. Indeed, the rigors of 
travel from the East Coast to the West Coast don't allow me to spend 
the kind of time I would like to with a good friend like Ed Bonner, but 
I wish him the best. I know he will have a good time in retirement, and 
I will see him around.

                          ____________________



