

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 27 (Wednesday, February 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 27 (Wednesday, February 15, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1217]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               75TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE U.S. NAVY SEABEES

  Mr. COCHRAN. Mr. President, today I wish to pay tribute to the U.S. 
Navy Construction Battalion, also known as the SeaBees, and 
congratulate them on their 75th anniversary. It was March 5th, 1942, 
when the SeaBees were charged by the Navy with the task of building, 
maintaining, and supporting base infrastructure in remote locations for 
the Navy and Marine Corps. SeaBees execute this critical mission, while 
also maintaining the capability to engage in combat operations.
  For 75 years, the SeaBees have met challenges in times of war and 
peace. They have been deployed all over the world, contributing to our 
national security interests by constructing military bases, building 
airfields, roads, bridges, and even underwater structures. In every 
major operation our Nation has carried out, from World War II to 
present operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, the Navy SeaBees are there, 
demonstrating unmatched courage, strength, and professionalism. Their 
personal sacrifices are a testament to the dedication of the Navy's 
elite construction force.
  As we honor the SeaBees today, let us not forget to acknowledge the 
many sacrifices their families have made throughout their 75 years. 
Whether at home or abroad in the more than 30 countries to which they 
deploy, it is the support of their families that enables the brave men 
and women of the SeaBees to accomplish their mission with the utmost 
devotion to duty, honor, and country. I am proud that Gulfport, MS, 
serves as home to the Naval Construction Battalion Center, where more 
than 12,500 SeaBees, sailors, airmen, and soldiers have received 
valuable training this past year alone.
  We congratulate the U.S. Navy SeaBees on their 75th anniversary and 
reaffirm our commitment to them.

                          ____________________



