

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 59 (Wednesday, April 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 59 (Wednesday, April 5, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2733]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  HONORING THE LIFE OF DR. BUDDY HICKS

  (Mr. POE of Texas asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. POE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, it is with heavy heart that I rise 
today to honor the life and memory of my friend, Dr. Buddy Hicks of 
Kingwood, Texas, who passed away Sunday while delivering a sermon at 
Pipeline Church in Humble, Texas.
  This is a photograph of Buddy and his wife, Carolyn, and their 
grandson, Cole.
  Buddy was doing what he loved to do until the very moment that the 
good Lord called him home. The Lord called him home right in the middle 
of his sermon.
  For nearly 30 years, Buddy has faithfully and tenaciously ministered 
to congregations throughout the great State of Texas. He was a man of 
God, always had a smile, never met a stranger. He spent his life 
spreading the gospel to communities throughout Texas and bringing other 
followers to fellowship with each other.
  Buddy was a member of my pastors' roundtable, an organization that he 
organized that had religious leaders from all faiths come together to 
work together in our community.
  I leaned on him for prayer and guidance. I have a great deal of 
appreciation for Buddy and his dedication to church and the Humble-area 
community. He will be sorely missed.
  My prayers are with his wife, Carolyn; their three children, Angela, 
Shari, and Trey--Trey worked for me here in Congress--and our prayers 
also go to his two grandchildren, Cole and Zoe, for they will miss 
their Pops.
  2 Timothy 4:7 recites Buddy's life to a tee:
  ``I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race, I have kept 
the faith.''
  And that is just the way it is.

                          ____________________



