

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 41 (Thursday, March 9, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 41 (Thursday, March 9, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1740]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       TRIBUTE TO WENDY DiVECCHIO

 Mr. HELLER. Mr. President, today I wish to congratulate Wendy 
DiVecchio on becoming the chief executive officer of the Greater Las 
Vegas Association of Realtors, GLVAR. It gives me great pleasure to 
recognize DiVecchio's recent success and her dedication to the great 
State of Nevada.
  Founded in 1947, GLVAR has always led our State in professionalism. 
GLVAR, the Nevada representative for the National Association of 
Realtors, is the largest professional organization within southern 
Nevada, providing 13,000 of its members educational resources, 
professional training, and political representation. GLVAR has truly 
made an impact on our State, specifically in Las Vegas.
  As a longtime resident of Las Vegas, DiVecchio has served in several 
different departments within the GLVAR for over 17 years, holding many 
of the company's crucial positions. Over the years, DiVecchio served as 
educational director, national chairwoman for local and State Realtor 
associations, and interim CEO. Recognizing her exceptional efforts, 
DiVecchio also earned the Realtor Certified Executive designation from 
the National Association of Realtors. While working full-time at GLVAR, 
she also earned a bachelor's and master's degree in business management 
from the University of Phoenix.
  In her new role, DiVecchio will oversee more than 30 employees and 
all other aspects of the GLVAR, including its move into a new 
headquarters located in southern Las Vegas. Although she will be faced 
with more responsibility, DiVecchio has proven she is up to the task 
and will succeed to her fullest potential.
  As Nevada's senior Senator, I applaud DiVecchio's impressive feats 
and commend her for demonstrating such valuable commitment and loyalty 
to GLVAR. I am both humbled and honored by her hard work, and I am 
proud to call her a fellow Nevadan. Today I ask all of my colleagues to 
join me in congratulating Wendy DiVecchio on her recent promotion to 
GLVAR's CEO and wish her well in her future endeavors. I give my 
deepest appreciation for all that she has done for the Silver 
State.

                          ____________________



