

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 39 (Tuesday, March 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 39 (Tuesday, March 7, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1607-S1608]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   REPEALING AND REPLACING OBAMACARE

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, last night, the committees of 
jurisdiction in the House released a proposal to repeal ObamaCare and 
begin the process of replacing it with commonsense reforms to preserve 
access and lower costs. The plan builds upon the 2015 repeal bill, 
which was vetoed by President Obama. I am happy to hear the committees 
will begin consideration this week. I encourage every Member to review 
it because I hope to call it up when we receive it from the House.
  It is clear to just about everyone that ObamaCare is failing. Costs 
are soaring. Choices are diminishing. Insurance markets are teetering.
  It would be easy to sit back and watch this partisan law collapse 
under its own weight. Pass the buck to the next guy. That seems to be 
the Democrats' strategy.
  Republicans think the middle class actually deserves better. In 
election after election, Americans have called for relief. In election 
after election, Americans have called for an end to this partisan law. 
We promised to do both things. We are.
  The legislation the House introduced last night represents the next 
step along that path. It is the result of a long conversation with many 
voices, and it is supported by the one person who can actually sign a 
bill into law--the President of the United States.
  I want to recognize everyone for their contributions and hard work. 
Given last night's announcement, I especially want to commend our 
colleagues in the House. The policy conversation that led to what we 
saw last night continues. The policy process moves forward today.
  We have come a long way. We have a lot further to go, but we are 
making significant progress. Working arm in arm with the House and the 
new administration, we are going to keep our promise to the American 
people because ObamaCare is a direct attack on the middle class. We all 
know it. We all get letters and phone calls. We hear the heartbreak and 
the frustration nearly every day.
  Consider this letter from one of my constituents in Goshen, who wrote 
about the ObamaCare plan available to his family:

       I am extremely displeased with the limited choices 
     available. While 16 plans are listed for me at the 
     Healthcare.gov website, they are all inferior to my 2016 
     plan. Neither our primary care physician nor my 
     rheumatologist is in network of any offered 2017 plan.
       The cost is another problem. The 2017 plan that I will 
     probably choose will have a 20% higher premium than my 2016 
     plan with a lower level of benefits.

  Pay more; pay more for less. That is ObamaCare for you right there. 
Look, in so many different ways, we have seen the evidence for years 
that ObamaCare simply isn't working. This isn't a law that can be 
fixed. This isn't a law that can be saved. It has to be repealed and 
replaced. We promised the American people we would do that. We are 
going to keep our promise.

[[Page S1608]]

  

                          ____________________



