

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 40 (Wednesday, March 8, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 40 (Wednesday, March 8, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1688]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

    REMEMBERING LIEUTENANT GENERAL HAROLD ``HAL'' GREGORY MOORE, JR.

 Mr. PERDUE. Mr. President, today I mourn the loss of LTG 
Harold ``Hal'' Gregory Moore, Jr., and to honor his life and memory as 
one of Georgia's great citizens and military heroes.
  Having served in the U.S. Army for 32 years, Lieutenant General Moore 
was known for valiantly and courageously protecting his fellow 
Americans during the Korean and Vietnam wars and for always leading by 
example.
  He is perhaps best known for leading the 1st Battalion, 7th Calvary 
Regiment in the first major battle against North Vietnamese forces in 
the la Drang Valley on November 14, 1965. During that 4-day battle--
which would set the tone for the entire conflict--then-Lieutenant 
Colonel Moore kept the promise he had made to his men: that he would be 
the first to set foot on the battlefield, the last to step off, and 
that, dead or alive, he would leave no man behind. For his leadership 
and dedication to his men at la Drang, he was awarded the Distinguished 
Service Cross for valor.
  Lieutenant General Moore passed away on February 10, 2017, leaving 
behind 5 children and 11 grandchildren. He was buried with his wife of 
55 years, Julia Compton Moore, at the Main Post Cemetery in Fort 
Benning, GA. His funeral was attended by more than 500 people, 
showcasing the extent to which his service, sacrifice, and leadership 
touched the lives of countless others.
  We will forever remember and forever aspire to live our lives in the 
spirit of selflessness, bravery, kindness, and compassion with which 
Lieutenant General Moore led his.

                          ____________________



