

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 16 (Tuesday, January 31, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 16 (Tuesday, January 31, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H759]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         SUPPORT THE REPORT ACT

  (Mr. AGUILAR asked and was given permission to address the House for 
1 minute.)
  Mr. AGUILAR. Madam Speaker, last week I introduced the Reporting 
Efficiently to Proper Officials in Response to Terrorism Act, the 
REPORT Act. It creates a legal requirement that the Secretary of 
Homeland Security, in coordination with the United States Attorney 
General, the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the 
head of the National Counterterrorism Center, submit a report to 
Congress when an incident of terrorism occurs in the United States.
  Currently, there is no legal mandate for this report which would play 
an important role in helping lawmakers and agencies learn more and 
respond to extraordinary emergencies like we saw in San Bernardino.
  I would like to thank my colleague Representative Ken Calvert, an 
original cosponsor of the bill, for working with me and my office over 
the past year to help in the San Bernardino recovery process.
  I would also like to recognize Mr. Gregory Clayborn, father of Sierra 
Clayborn. Sierra was one of the 14 victims of the San Bernardino 
terrorist attack, and Mr. Clayborn worked with my office for months to 
help shape this legislation.
  This bill is a tribute to Sierra, the other 13 innocent victims, and 
all of those who were affected by the attack on December 2. While it 
does not address every issue raised by the attack, it is a commonsense 
change to help us understand how this and other attacks unfolded so we 
can prevent these types of tragedies from happening in other cities and 
to other families.
  I urge my colleagues to support this bipartisan bill and to help 
strengthen our national security.

                          ____________________



