

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 28 (Thursday, February 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 28 (Thursday, February 16, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H1251-H1255]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




         CONTRIBUTIONS OF AFRICAN AMERICANS DURING WORLD WAR II

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
California (Ms. Lee) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. LEE. Mr. Speaker, first of all, I include in the Record the names 
of the men and women who died in World War

[[Page H1252]]

II while posted in Normandy, specifically the African-American men and 
women whom I will speak about.

  Names of African American Men Buried at Normandy American Cemetery 
                                 (NAC)

       The 320th Battalion served with distinction during the D-
     Day invasion of Normandy, France on June 6, 1944. That day, 
     the 320th lost two of their own, Corporals Brooks Stith and 
     Henry Harris.
       CPL Brooks Stith was born in 1922. While he was originally 
     from North Carolina, he enlisted in the Army in Richmond, VA 
     in December 1942. Corporal Stith had a family and made a 
     living working with metal before the war. He was decorated 
     with the Purple Heart, American Campaign Medal, and WWII 
     Victory Medal.
       CPL Henry J. Harris was born in 1907. While he was 
     originally from Pennsylvania, he enlisted in the Army in 
     Boston, MA in April 1941. He was single and worked in 
     furniture manufacturing before the war. Corporal Harris was 
     decorated with the Purple Heart, American Campaign Medal, and 
     WWII Victory Medal.
       PFC James M. McLean was born in 1922 and enlisted in the 
     Army at Fort Bragg, North Carolina in December 1942. He was 
     single and worked as a farm laborer before the war. Private 
     First Class McLean was decorated with the American Campaign 
     Medal, and WWII Victory Medal. He was a member of the 320th 
     who died later on July 16, 1944.
       Others buried at the NAC are listed below:
       PFC Elihue E. Baltimore from Indiana of 963 QM SV CO served 
     his country honorably during WWII and died on April 28th, 
     1945. He was 27 years old. PFC Elihue E. Baltimore is buried 
     in plot B, row 3, grave number 20. He was decorated with a 
     Purple Heart.
       PFC Howard Anderson from Virginia of 3878 QM GAS SUP CO 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on July 
     6th, 1944. He was 32 years old. PFC Howard Anderson is buried 
     in plot B, row 6, grave number 43. He was decorated with a 
     Purple Heart.
       CPL Roy Bell from Pennsylvania of 237 QM SALV CO served his 
     country honorably during WWII and died on July 29th, 1944. He 
     was 21 years old. CPL Roy Bell is buried in plot G, row 13, 
     grave number 12. He was decorated with a Purple Heart.
       PVT James Blair from South Carolina of 4090 QM SV CO served 
     his country honorably during WWII and died on June 10th, 
     1944. He was 22 years old. PVT James Blair is buried in plot 
     A, row 1, grave number 37. He was decorated with a Purple 
     Heart.
       PVT John S. Brannon, Jr. from Massachusetts of 502 PORT BN 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on June 
     7th, 1944. He was 29 years old. PVT John S. Brannon, Jr. is 
     buried in plot H, row 25, grave number 3. He was decorated 
     with a Purple Heart.
       PVT Vernon F. Campbell from New York of 237 QM SALV CO 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on July 
     29th, 1944. He was 24 years old. PVT Vernon F. Campbell is 
     buried in plot J, row 6, grave number 35. He was decorated 
     with a Purple Heart.
       PVT Andrew Collins, Jr. from Wisconsin of 237 QM SALV CO 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on July 
     29th, 1944. PVT Andrew Collins, Jr. is buried in plot J, row 
     12, grave number 35. He was decorated with a Purple Heart.
       SGT Willie L. Collins from Georgia of 490 PORT BN served 
     his country honorably during WWII and died on June 6th, 1944. 
     He was 22 years old. SGT Willie L. Collins is buried in plot 
     F, row 28, grave number 31. He was decorated with a Purple 
     Heart.
       TEC 4 Oscar W. Davis from Texas of 815 TRK CO served his 
     country honorably during WWII and died on June 10th, 1944. 
     TEC 4 Oscar W. Davis is buried in plot D, row 11, grave 
     number 25. He was decorated with a Purple Heart.
       TEC 5 Howard F. Ellis from Virginia of 237 QM SALV CO 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on July 
     29th, 1944. He was 38 years old. TEC 5 Howard F. Ellis is 
     buried in plot E, row 13, grave number 14. He was decorated 
     with a Purple Heart.
       TEC 5 William Gray from Mississippi of 3393 QM TRK CO 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on July 
     28th, 1944. He was 20 years old. TEC 5 William Gray is buried 
     in plot C, row 9, grave number 16. He was decorated with a 
     Purple Heart.
       M SGT Zylphus L. Greene from Pennsylvania of 237 QM SALV 
     COLL CO served his country honorably during WWII and died on 
     July 29th, 1944. He was 27 years old. M SGT Zylphus L. Greene 
     is buried in plot B, row 8, grave number 44. He was decorated 
     with a Purple Heart.
       PVT Charlie G. Harvey from Illinois of 3275 QM SV CO served 
     his country honorably during WWII and died on June 27th, 
     1944. He was 22 years old. PVT Charlie G. Harvey is buried in 
     plot I, row 16, grave number 10. He was decorated with a 
     Purple Heart.
       CPL Joseph N. Headd from New Jersey of 3912 QM TRK CO 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on August 
     16th, 1944. CPL Joseph N. Headd is buried in plot J, row 26, 
     grave number 28. He was decorated with a Purple Heart.
       SGT Luther J. Irvin, Jr. from Indiana of 237 QM SALV CO 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on July 
     29th, 1944. He was 29 years old. SGT Luther J. Irvin, Jr. is 
     buried in plot G, row 19, grave number 31. He was decorated 
     with a Purple Heart.
       PVT Eugene Jones from Illinois of 3275 QM SV CO served his 
     country honorably during WWII and died on June 30th, 1944. He 
     was 22 years old. PVT Eugene Jones is buried in plot G, row 
     24, grave number 17. He was decorated with a Purple Heart.
       CPL James A. Long from Mississippi of 4090 QM SV CO served 
     his country honorably during WWII and died on June 10th, 
     1944. He was 27 years old. CPL James A. Long is buried in 
     plot A, row 18, grave number 37. He was decorated with a 
     Purple Heart.
       1 SGT Willis G. Peele from North Carolina of 4454 QM SV CO 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on March 
     21st, 1945. He was 29 years old. 1 SGT Willis G. Peele is 
     buried in plot D, row 1, grave number 24. He was decorated 
     with a Purple Heart.
       TEC 5 James G. Richardson from Texas of 237 QM SALV CO 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on July 
     29th, 1944. He was 34 years old. TEC 5 James G. Richardson is 
     buried in plot H, row 5, grave number 19. He was decorated 
     with a Purple Heart.
       TEC 5 Robert J. Self from Virginia of 237 QM SALV CO served 
     his country honorably during WWII and died on July 29th, 
     1944. He was 29 years old. TEC 5 Robert J. Self is buried in 
     plot E, row 9, grave number 14. He was decorated with a 
     Purple Heart.
       TEC 5 Edward J. Thompson from Mississippi of 388 ENGR GEN 
     SV REGT served his country honorably during WWII and died on 
     March 6th, 1945. He was 28 years old. TEC 5 Edward J. 
     Thompson is buried in plot D, row 13, grave number 41. He was 
     decorated with a Purple Heart.
       TEC 5 Lee H. Watson from Arkansas of 494 PORT BN served his 
     country honorably during WWII and died on May 12th, 1945. TEC 
     5 Lee H. Watson is buried in plot B, row 19, grave number 11. 
     He was decorated with a Purple Heart.
       PFC William D. Adams from Alabama of 1323 ENGR GEN SV REGT 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on 
     September 20th, 1944. He was 31 years old.
       PFC Joseph Allen from Mississippi of 244 QM BN served his 
     country honorably during WWII and died on February 3rd, 1945. 
     He was 26 years old.
       TEC 4 Florzell Anderson from New Jersey of 3116 QM SV CO 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on January 
     19th, 1945. He was 23 years old.
       PVT Issac R. Anderson, Jr. from South Carolina of 4148 QM 
     SV CO served his country honorably during WWII and died on 
     December 31st, 1944. He was 20 years old.
       PVT James R. Anderson from Indiana of 513 PORT BN served 
     his country honorably during WWII and died on October 9th, 
     1944. He was 21 years old.
       TEC 5 Alvin T. Austin from Texas of 549 ENGR L PON CO 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on December 
     9th, 1945.
       TEC 5 Daniel Batts from Virginia of 485 PORT BN served his 
     country honorably during WWII and died on April 20th, 1945. 
     He was 38 years old.
       PVT William E. Beadle from Georgia of 511 PORT BN served 
     his country honorably during WWII and died on March 29th, 
     1945. He was 21 years old.
       PVT E. L. Bolton from Tennessee of 3453 QM TRK CO served 
     his country honorably during WWII and died on March 15th, 
     1945. He was 25 years old.
       PVT Dan Bouie, Jr. from Georgia of 821 AMPH TRK CO served 
     his country honorably during WWII and died on April 21st, 
     1945. He was 20 years old.
       SGT Bennie Boyd from South Carolina of 516 PORT BN served 
     his country honorably during WWII and died on May 31st, 1945. 
     He was 24 years old.
       TEC 5 Rochester Boyd, Sr. from Florida of 3398 QM TRK CO 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on August 
     1st, 1944. He was 24 years old.
       PVT Samuel S. Branson, Jr. from Pennsylvania of 4190 QM SV 
     CO served his country honorably during WWII and died on July 
     12th, 1944. He was 24 years old.
       TEC 5 Clyde Bridges from Georgia of 3519 QM TRK CO served 
     his country honorably during WWII and died on May 24th, 1945.
       CPL Henry Brown from New Jersey of 999 FA BN served his 
     country honorably during WWII and died on July 18th, 1944. He 
     was 27 years old.
       PFC Otis Brown from Georgia of 388 ENGR GEN SV REGT served 
     his country honorably during WWII and died on October 12th, 
     1944. He was 24 years old.
       PFC William Law Campbell from New York of 435 ENGR DUMP TRK 
     CO served his country honorably during WWII and died on 
     August 4th, 1945. He was 34 years old.
       SGT Robert Carey from Lousiana of 3399 QM TRK CO served his 
     country honorably during WWII and died on August 11th, 1944. 
     He was 20 years old.
       PFC Earlie Carothers from Mississippi of 364 ENGR GEN SV 
     REGT served his country honorably during WWII and died on 
     July 7th, 1944. He was 25 years old.
       PVT William Carter from Michigan of 3862 QM TRK CO served 
     his country honorably during WWII and died on November 8th, 
     1944.
       PVT Harold K. Chambers from Kansas of 452 AAA AW BN served 
     his country honorably during WWII and died on August 6th, 
     1944.
       PVT Len Cleveland from Georgia of 501 PORT BN served his 
     country honorably during WWII and died on January 1st, 1945.
       PFC Willie F. Cooper from Illinois of 399 QM LDRY CO served 
     his country honorably during WWII and died on August 9th, 
     1944. He was 34 years old.
       STM2C Clarence N. Copeland from New York of USNR served his 
     country honorably during WWII and died on June 8th, 1944.

[[Page H1253]]

       TEC 5 Eddie B. Culpepper, Jr. from Georgia of 17 SP SV CO 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on August 
     21st, 1945.
       TEC 4 Hoyt N. Daniels, Jr. from Arkansas of 414 PORT CD 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on June 
     19th, 1945.
       PFC William E. Davis from Pennsylvania of 515 PORT BN 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on April 
     26th, 1945. He was 21 years old.
       TEC 4 Dawson E. Dennis from Pennsylvania of 658 PORT CO 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on 
     September 20th, 1945. He was 31 years old.
       PVT Cecil Dorsett from New York of 815 TRK CO served his 
     country honorably during WWII and died on August 24th, 1944. 
     He was 34 years old.
       CPL Edward L. Drasdell from Kentucky of 4270 QM TRK CO 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on November 
     5th, 1944.
       CPL Randolph Easter from New York of 3867 QM TRK CO served 
     his country honorably during WWII and died on January 21st, 
     1945. He was 33 years old.
       TEC 5 Cyrus S. Elliott from Arkansas of 514 PORT BN served 
     his country honorably during WWII and died on November 5th, 
     1944. He was 23 years old.
       PVT Leo A. Fair from South Carolina of 4083 QM SV CO served 
     his country honorably during WWII and died on July 12th, 
     1944. He was 21 years old.
       PFC Harold G. Foster from New York of 818 TRK CO served his 
     country honorably during WWII and died on August 12th, 1944. 
     He was 28 years old.
       PVT Sidney B. Fountain from Mississippi of 3135 QM SV CO 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on June 
     3rd, 1945. He was 22 years old.
       MS Earlie J. Gabriel from North Carolina of USMM served his 
     country honorably during WWII and died on December 14th, 
     1944.
       PVT Victor H. Gambles from Missouri of 365 PORT BN served 
     his country honorably during WWII and died on April 4th, 
     1945. He was 32 years old.
       TEC 5 Frank Glenn from Texas of 1310 ENGR GEN SV REGT 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on May 
     22nd, 1945. He was 31 years old.
       PVT Jessie Goode from North Carolina of 3556 QM TRK CO 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on November 
     7th, 1945. He was 22 years old.
       PFC Levester Goodman from North Carolina of 3193 QM SV CO 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on 
     September 16th, 1944. He was 24 years old.
       TEC 5 Ross Graham from South Carolina of 3138 QM SV CO 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on August 
     29th, 1944. He was 23 years old.
       TEC 5 Tom Griggs from Ohio of 3682 QM TRK CO served his 
     country honorably during WWII and died on September 24th, 
     1944.
       TEC 5 Thomas Hammonds from North Carolina of 392 ENGR GEN 
     SV REGT served his country honorably during WWII and died on 
     November 30th, 1944. He was 31 years old.
       SGT Alex Hansboro from Texas of 434 PORT CO served his 
     country honorably during WWII and died on January 21st, 1945. 
     He was 22 years old.
       PVT John H. Harris from the District of Columbia of 1323 
     ENGR GEN SV REGT served his country honorably during WWII and 
     died on August 20th, 1944. He was 30 years old.
       PVT Roberta Hawkins from Texas of 3869 QM TRK CO served his 
     country honorably during WWII and died on April 9th, 1945. He 
     was 23 years old.
       CPL Charlie L. Herndon from Kentucky of 4083 QM V CO served 
     his country honorably during WWII and died on July 12th, 
     1944. He was 23 years old.
       PVT William Hester from Arkansas of 306 RHD CO served his 
     country honorably during WWII and died on September 10th, 
     1944.
       CPL Jimmie Hicks from Georgia of 1323 ENGR GEN SV REGT 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on 
     September 6th, 1944. He was 22 years old.
       TEC 5 Roy Hill from Oklahoma of 483 PORT BN served his 
     country honorably during WWII and died on February 3rd, 1945.
       PFC Horace Horton from North Carolina of 499 PORT BN served 
     his country honorably during WWII and died on June 3rd, 1945. 
     He was 30 years old.
       PVT Harrison Hubbard from Arkansas of 3867 QM TRK CO served 
     his country honorably during WWII and died on September 4th, 
     1944.
       PVT George Jackson from Ohio of 624 PORT CO served his 
     country honorably during WWII and died on January 23rd, 1945. 
     He was 29 years old.
       CPL Jinse C. Jackson from Kentucky of 549 ENGR L PON CO 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on July 
     8th, 1945. He was 27 years old.
       PVT Pete L. Jarber from Kentucky of 74 CML GENERATOR CO 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on December 
     2nd, 1944. He was 21 years old.
       1 SGT Gelain J. Jefferson from Pennsylvania of 4335 QM SV 
     CO served his country honorably during WWII and died on March 
     14th, 1945. He was 22 years old.
       PFC Henry Jefferson from Louisiana of 988th QM Service Co 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on 
     September 20th, 1944. He was 28 years old.
       PVT James H. Jeffries from Pennsylvania of 509 PORT BN 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on April 
     23rd, 1945. He was 20 years old.
       TEC 5 Albert Jenkins from New Jersey of 485 PORT BN served 
     his country honorably during WWII and died on September 30th, 
     1944.
       PVT William H. Johnson from Virginia of 306 RHD CO served 
     his country honorably during WWII and died on September 7th, 
     1944. He was 22 years old.
       TEC 5 John T. Jones from Virginia of 502 PORT BN served his 
     country honorably during WWII and died on September 19th, 
     1944. He was 21 years old.
       SGT Melvin Jones from Georgia of 364 ENGR REGT served his 
     country honorably during WWII and died on July 8th, 1944. He 
     was 22 years old.
       PFC Leroy Kelly from North Carolina of 516 PORT BN served 
     his country honorably during WWII and died on November 24th, 
     1945. He was 24 years old.
       PVT Selmer Kendrick from Indiana of 4083 QM SV CO served 
     his country honorably during WWII and died on July 12th, 
     1944. He was 23 years old.
       M SGTJames W. Kersh from Tennessee of 364 ENGR GEN SV REGT 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on August 
     11th, 1944.
       PVT Nollie J. Lewis from Texas of 317 QM SV CO served his 
     country honorably during WWII and died on March 7th, 1945. He 
     was 34 years old.
       PVT Edmon T. Littleton from Alabama of 131 QM BN served his 
     country honorably during WWII and died on April 30th, 1945. 
     He was 23 years old.
       PVT Lindsay Lyles from Alabama of 511 PORT BN served his 
     country honorably during WWII and died on March 4th, 1945. He 
     was 21 years old.
       CPL Lloyd A. Martin from Pennsylvania of 236 QM BN served 
     his country honorably during WWII and died on November 5th, 
     1944. He was 32 years old.
       2 LT Eddie L. May from Wisconsin of 1349 ENGR GEN SV REGT 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on May 
     26th, 1945.
       PFC Earl W. Mayes from Florida of 501 PORT BN served his 
     country honorably during WWII and died on May 31st, 1945. He 
     was 23 years old.
       PFC Vincent A. Mayo from New York of 4059 QM SV CO served 
     his country honorably during WWII and died on August 26th, 
     1945. He was 26 years old.
       TEC 4 Oscar L. Middlebrook from Tennessee of 513 PORT BN 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on April 
     7th, 1945. He was 21 years old.
       PFC Raymond T. Moore from Virginia of 1310 ENGR GEN SV REGT 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on 
     September 21st, 1944. He was 20 years old.
       PVT James E. Myers from Virginia of 3692 QM TRK CO served 
     his country honorably during WWII and died on December 16th, 
     1944. He was 26 years old.
       PVT Chester Nash from Tennessee of 505 PORT BN served his 
     country honorably during WWII and died on May 8th, 1945. He 
     was 26 years old.
       TEC 5 Samuel G. Nathaniel from South Carolina of 3132 QM SV 
     CO served his country honorably during WWII and died on March 
     5th, 1945. He was 35 years old.
       PFC George M. Parker from Pennsylvania of 1323 ENGR GEN SV 
     REGT served his country honorably during WWII and died on 
     September 9th, 1944. He was 35 years old.
       PVT Lawrence Payton from Lousiana of 388 ENGR REGT served 
     his country honorably during WWII and died on March 18th, 
     1945. He was 31 years old.
       SSGT Hiawatha L. E. Perry from Tennessee of 652 QM TRK CO 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on October 
     19th, 1944. He was 34 years old.
       PVT John D. Phillips from Pennsylvania of 502 PORT BN 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on May 
     29th, 1945. He was 21 years old.
       PVT James H. Pickens from Pennsylvania of 511 PORT BN 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on April 
     19th, 1945.
       PFC William A. Platt from North Carolina of 388 ENGR GEN SV 
     REGT served his country honorably during WWII and died on 
     February 7th, 1945. He was 30 years old.
       TEC 5 Ernest R. Potts from Oklahoma of 3497 QM TRK CO 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on March 
     11th, 1945. He was 25 years old.
       SGT Curry Purser from Georgia of 389 ENGR GEN SV REGT 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on August 
     6th, 1944.
       TEC 5 Mack Roby from Mississippi of 514 PORT BN served his 
     country honorably during WWII and died on August 15th, 1944. 
     He was 22 years old.
       PFC Jesse Rose from Illinois of 1432 Labor Sup Co served 
     his country honorably during WWII and died on May 20th, 1945. 
     He was 30 years old.
       PFC Paul L. Russell from Illinois of 3219 QM SV CO served 
     his country honorably during WWII and died on April 11th, 
     1945.
       PFC William L. Ryerson from New York of 364 ENGR REGT 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on July 
     7th, 1944. He was 24 years old.
       TEC 5 Booker T. Saddler from Mississippi of 516 PORT BN 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on May 
     21st, 1945. He was 26 years old,
       PFC Orin D. Saddler from New York of 485 PORT BN served his 
     country honorably during WWII and died on May 11th, 1945. He 
     was 39 years old.
       PVT Logan S. Scott from Georgia of 951 QM SV CO served his 
     country honorably during WWII and died on November 18th, 
     1944.

[[Page H1254]]

       PVT John H. Showes from Ohio of 954 QM SV CO served his 
     country honorably during WWII and died on November 19th, 
     1944. He was 39 years old.
       CK3C Malcolm Slaughter from Mississippi of USNR served his 
     country honorably during WWII and died on June 9th, 1944.
       PFC Charles C. Smith from Missouri of 4371 QM BAKERY CO 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on January 
     1st, 1945. He was 32 years old.
       PFC Frank W. Smith from South Carolina of 1697 ENGR COMBAT 
     BN served his country honorably during WWII and died on July 
     16th, 1945. He was 25 years old.
       PVT Albert Suber from Michigan of 1323 ENGR GEN SV REGT 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on August 
     21st, 1944.
       TEC 5 Rufus Sykes from Virginia of 549 ENGR L PON CO served 
     his country honorably during WWII and died on July 16th, 
     1945. He was 25 years old.
       PFC Luther J. Thompson from Michigan of 521 PORT BN served 
     his country honorably during WWII and died on April 7th, 
     1945.
       PVT Vandyke S. Toye from Virginia of 388 ENGR GEN SV REGT 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on June 
     10th, 1945. He was 27 years old.
       PVT Alexander Troop from Indiana of 165 CML GENERATOR CO 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on March 
     25th, 1945. He was 35 years old.
       PVT James Tucker from North Carolina of 973 QM SV CO served 
     his country honorably during WWII and died on July 19th, 
     1945. He was 25 years old.
       CPL Ernest J. Walker from Illinois of 4058 QM SV CO served 
     his country honorably during WWII and died on July 28th, 
     1944. He was 28 years old.
       CPL General U. Walker from Florida of 364 ENGR GEN SV REGT 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on July 
     7th, 1944. He was 25 years old.
       PVT David Webster from New Jersey of 3871 QM TRK CO served 
     his country honorably during WWII and died on June 15th, 
     1945. He was 39 years old.
       TEC 5 Willie R. Weston from Pennsylvania of 663 QM TRK CO 
     served his country honorably during WWII and died on 
     September 18th, 1944. He was 20 years old.
       TEC 5 Albert B. Williams from Georgia of 470 TRK CO served 
     his country honorably during WWII and died on August 20th, 
     1944. He was 23 years old.
       PVT J. S. Willis from Missouri of 450 GAS SUP CO served his 
     country honorably during WWII and died on December 27th, 
     1944. He was 22 years old.
       PVT William A. Wilson from Illinois of 485 PORT BN served 
     his country honorably during WWII and died on March 31st, 
     1945.
       PFC Clifford Woods from Tennessee of 4057 QM SV CO served 
     his country honorably during WWII and died on December 28th, 
     1944. He was 39 years old.

 Names of African American Women Buried at Normandy American Cemetery 
                                 (NAC)

       6888th Central Postal Directory Battalion was an all-women, 
     all-black unit which processed mail in Europe during WWII. 
     While women were not allowed In combat, PFC Mary H. Bankston 
     and PFC Mary J. Barlow were killed in an auto vehicle 
     accident on July 8, 1945 and SGT Dolores M. Browne from 
     Connecticut died later from injuries on July 13, 1945.

                 African American Men Missing in Action

       These men remain missing in action today. They are 
     memorialized on the Wall of the Missing at the Normandy 
     American Cemetery (NAC).
       TEC 5 Resse G. Boone from North Carolina of the 514 PORT 
     BN.
       PFC Sylvester D. Haggins from New York of the 364 ENGR GEN 
     SV REGT.
       TSGT Raymond Heads from Texas of the 3688 QM TRK CO. He was 
     decorated with a Purple Heart.
       PFC Mack Homer from Georgia of the 364 ENGR GEN SV REGT.
       TEC 5 Daniel Wyatt from Louisiana of the 364 ENGR GEN SV 
     REGT.

  Ms. LEE. Mr. Speaker, every year when we celebrate and reflect on 
Black History Month, we learn the stories of some of America's greatest 
scientists, actors, writers, entertainers, scholars, workers, and 
ordinary people who made major contributions to this great country.
  As a member of the Military Construction, Veteran Affairs, and 
Related Agencies Subcommittee of the Committee on Appropriations, I 
want to share the unsung stories of the valiant Black men and women who 
served their country dutifully during World War II even in the face of 
adversity.
  We know about the brave Tuskegee Airmen--Red Tails--who flew fighter 
and bomber planes during World War II, but many do not know that the 
Red Tails were only a few of the nearly 1 million African Americans who 
served during the war. These courageous men and women fought bravely to 
protect the democratic ideals of freedom and equality.
  Sadly, the country they served did not live up to those ideals. When 
they returned from victory in Europe and the Pacific, many did not 
receive a hero's welcome because of the color of their skin.
  My dad, the late Lieutenant Colonel Garvin Tutt, was one of those 
heroes. He served in the 92nd Battalion in Italy supporting the 
Normandy invasion, was in World War II, the Korean war, and served in 
the Army for 25 years.
  Only recently have the contributions of African-American men and 
women during World War II been recognized as our country has attempted 
to acknowledge its sad and dark past. That is why I am taking time on 
the floor today to honor the 138 African-American men and women buried 
in Normandy American Cemetery and the 5 men who remain missing. It is 
my hope that, by sharing these stories today and entering their names 
into the Record, more people will come to appreciate the sacrifices of 
these brave men and women who served this country with distinction 
during World War II.
  Now, most people know that on June 6, 1944, approximately 2,000 
soldiers landed on the beaches of Normandy for what would be a major 
turning point in the war, but far fewer know that the all-Black 320th 
Barrage Balloon Battalion served with distinction during the D-day 
invasions. The 320th was the only Black unit to take part on D-day and 
the only balloon battalion dedicated to protecting troops from intense 
German aircraft attacks on Omaha and Utah beaches. This was unique 
because Black units were usually kept from combat and fulfilled 
essential support services instead.
  As part of their mission to protect Allied troops, the men of the 
320th implemented innovative ideas to ease transportation to shore of 
barrage balloons that weighed half a ton. In addition to defending 
American soldiers during D-day invasions, the battalion also secured 
its own successful offensive strikes. The battalion's ingenuity and 
service was later recognized as an important element of the air defense 
team by Dwight D. Eisenhower, who was Supreme Allied Commander General 
at the time.
  Sadly, no sacrifice comes without the loss of human life. During the 
D-day invasion, the 320th suffered two casualties. Corporal Brooks 
Stith and Corporal Henry J. Harris from the 320th are both buried at 
the Normandy American Cemetery. Each of these men was decorated with 
the Purple Heart, the American Campaign Medal, and the World War II 
Victory Medal for their valiant service. There is James M. McLean of 
the 320th, who died on July 16, 1944. He was also buried at the 
cemetery.
  African Americans who were buried at the cemetery, the men from the 
320th, were buried with their White peers. Even though units were 
segregated until President Harry Truman changed official Department of 
Defense policies in 1948, Black and White soldiers who died in Normandy 
were buried together. At the Normandy American Cemetery, 135 African-
American men and 3 African-American women were laid to rest from 1944 
to 1945.
  Mr. Speaker, there are five Black men who remain missing in action 
while posted in Normandy. They are honored on the Walls of the Missing 
at Normandy with more than 1,700 others.
  While women were not allowed in combat during World War II, three 
Black women from the 6888th Postal Directory Battalion of the Women's 
Army Corps are also buried at the cemetery. They were killed during an 
accident with a jeep.
  Now, this was an all-women, all-Black unit that helped process mail 
in Europe during World War II. They were the first Black battalion 
deployed after First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt and civil rights leader Dr. 
Mary McLeod Bethune advocated for Black women to join the Women's Army 
Corps, the WAC, for nearly a year and a half. The women received basic 
training and were trained in jujitsu because they were not allowed to 
carry firearms. They successfully helped clear massive mail backlogs in 
various cities across Europe.
  While the women of the 6888th were celebrated for their work in 
Europe, some historians speculate that inspectors would sometimes give 
unsatisfactory reviews because of their prejudices.
  Unit commander Major Charity Adams was court-martialed once for 
pushing back when a general threatened to send a ``white first 
lieutenant'' to show her how to command her unit.
  We are indebted to these women for their exemplary work processing 
mail efficiently to

[[Page H1255]]

keep up the morale of our troops during WWII. But more importantly, we 
owe them the respect they never received.
  Mr. Speaker, these men and women lost their lives too soon for a 
country that hasn't done a great job of remembering their bravery and 
their sacrifices.
  An analysis conducted by the Army showed that the average age of 
African American service members buried at the NAC is 27 years--the 
prime age when a young person is starting their life.
  That is why it is so important for us to remember and tell their 
stories during Black History Month.
  As Black History Month continues, I hope my colleagues will consider 
joining me in honoring their memories by also speaking on the Floor 
about other all-Black battalions who fought during WWII.
  As the daughter of a WWII and Korean Veteran, I am very honored to be 
on the Military-Veterans Appropriations Subcommittee to ensure our 
veterans receive the care and recognition they deserve.
  Let me close by thanking our Military-Veterans Chair, Congressman 
Charlie Dent and then Ranking Member Sanford Bishop and then full 
Committee Chair Rogers and Ranking Member Lowey, for their support in 
the Appropriations Committee and the commission for helping bring these 
great heroes and sheros to the attention of the American people and by 
properly recognizing their sacrifices and their legacies.
  Hopefully this effort will help us locate their descendants and 
families to and thank them and honor them as part of yes--Black History 
but of course this is American History that all Americans should 
recognize and learn from.
  Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the chair of our subcommittee, Mr. Dent, 
Ranking Member Lowey, Mr. Bishop, and you, Mr. Rogers, for your support 
in the Appropriations Committee and for the American Battle Monuments 
Commission's very dedicated work in helping us bring these great heroes 
and sheroes to the attention of the American people by properly 
recognizing their sacrifices and their legacies.

                          ____________________



