

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 57 (Monday, April 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 57 (Monday, April 3, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2620]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     HONORING CHIEF CLINT GREENWOOD

  (Mr. POE of Texas asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute.)
  Mr. POE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, early this morning, Precinct 3 
Assistant Chief Clint Greenwood put on his uniform, secured his badge 
over his heart, and he headed off to work.
  As he arrived at the courthouse at 7 a.m., shots suddenly rang out. 
After the smoke cleared, Chief Greenwood was shot in the neck. His 
fellow officers rushed to his aid, and he was airlifted to a nearby 
Houston hospital, but it was too late. Texas lost another one of its 
finest men in blue.
  The suspect is still at large, but not for long. As the investigation 
develops, it is still unclear if Deputy Chief Greenwood was 
specifically targeted or if he was ambushed because he wore the 
uniform. Law enforcement will do everything in their power to find and 
apprehend the murderous outlaw.
  Chief Greenwood dedicated 30 years of his life to the law. I knew 
Clint when I worked as a judge in Houston, Texas. He was a prosecutor. 
He was a defense lawyer. He worked for the sheriff's department, and 
now more recently as a member of the constable's office. He was of 
strong character and a proud Texas lawman.
  Texas prays for Chief Greenwood's family and the Harris County, 
Texas, constable's office. Our men and women who wear the badge are the 
best we have. They protect and serve our communities. Chief Greenwood's 
life may be gone, but his memory serves as a reminder of all those who 
give their lives for the thin blue line. Back the blue, Mr. Speaker. 
Back the blue.
  And that is just the way it is.

                          ____________________



