

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 58 (Tuesday, April 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 58 (Tuesday, April 4, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2212]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    MONTENEGRO'S ACCESSION INTO NATO

  Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I am pleased the U.S. Senate voted 
favorably to add Montenegro as a permanent member to the North Atlantic 
Treaty Organization, NATO, sending a strong signal of transatlantic 
unity. NATO plays a vital role in maintaining security and stability 
throughout Europe, and including Montenegro in this strategic alliance 
will strengthen NATO and encourage stability within the region.
  Montenegro is a growing democracy that has repeatedly proven itself 
to be a valuable ally since joining NATO's Partnership for Peace 
Program in 2006. They are partnered with our Maine National Guard, and 
have been a strong ally in the fight in Afghanistan since 2010. Having 
visited Montenegro, I can say, without a doubt, that it has 
demonstrated a commitment to NATO, the United States, and regional 
stability. This vote sends clear message of support to our friends in 
Montenegro. It also sends a strong message to NATO and gives notice 
that the United States will stand up for Western democracies, despite 
continued pressure from the Kremlin. We must deter Russia's 
destabilizing actions in the region, including Moscow's annexation of 
Crimea in 2014 and its continued support for rebels in eastern Ukraine. 
Putin is learning lessons from these examples and will continue his 
quest to expand his influence as far as the world community will allow. 
This aggression by the Russian Federation undermines peace and 
stability not only in the Balkan region, but also in all of Europe, 
which constitutes a direct threat to U.S. security interests.
  Montenegro's accession to NATO is in the best interest of the United 
States, NATO, and peace and stability in Europe. This vote by the U.S. 
Senate sends a clear message of our commitment to NATO, to the people 
of Montenegro, and to improving stability in the Balkan region. I look 
forward to Montenegro joining NATO as a full member.

                          ____________________



