

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 41 (Thursday, March 9, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 41 (Thursday, March 9, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1741]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       RECOGNIZING KIT'S KITCHEN

 Mr. HELLER. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize a great 
small business and charitable organization that is leading by example, 
serving the community, and making a difference in the great State of 
Nevada. Chanthy Walsh and her husband own a nonprofit restaurant called 
KIT's Kitchen, which is located in Henderson, NV. The name stems from 
the nonprofit foundation they run called Kids in Transition. Both 
organizations work side by side to help those in need.
  Since November 2016, KIT's Kitchen has been training underprivileged 
youth, while providing affordable meals to the local community. This 
restaurant provides its volunteers with real work experience and 
teaches them what it takes to succeed in the restaurant and hospitality 
industry. To me, it is more than just learning about the restaurant; 
these kids are being taught hard work, about giving back to their 
community, and what it means to make a commitment and be held 
accountable to it--values that go beyond the workplace.
  In addition to their impressive restaurant, Mrs. Walsh and her 
husband, Tim, direct a nonprofit called the Kids in Transition 
Foundation, which is designed to help young people build a successful 
career. This foundation provides meals, scholarships, financial aid, 
and mentoring advice to Nevada's youth. Together, these efforts are 
building a better future for Nevada.
  As a father, I understand firsthand how much of an asset Chanthy 
Walsh and her work is to the Silver State. Considering these young 
Nevadans are the future, I am proud to see Ms. Walsh strive to make 
Nevada brighter every single day. It is this dedication to community 
and giving back that makes a difference in so many people's lives.
  Today I ask my colleagues and all Nevadans to join me and recognizing 
this organization, its employees, and its impressive leader. Chanthy 
Walsh provides an outstanding service to the local community and to our 
great State. As Nevada's senior Senator, I am humbled by her efforts 
and a true commitment to making a difference in people's lives. I hope 
others can look to her for inspiration on how to make their community a 
better place for everyone.

                          ____________________



