

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 55 (Wednesday, March 29, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 55 (Wednesday, March 29, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2114-S2115]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. HELLER. Mr. President, I have 15 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to Rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


           Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry

  The Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry, is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on March 29, 2017 following 
the first roll call vote to vote on the nomination of George ``Sonny'' 
Perdue, of Georgia, to be Secretary of Agriculture.


           Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to hold a meeting during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 
29, 2017, at 10 a.m. in room SD-G50 of the Dirksen Senate Office 
Building.


           Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to hold a meeting during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 
29, 2017, at 2:30 p.m. in room SD-G50 of the Dirksen Senate Office 
Building, to hold a hearing on the Nomination of the Jeffrey A. Rosen.


               Committee on Environment and Public Works

  The Committee on Environment and Public Works is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 29, 2017, at 10 
a.m., in room 406 of the Dirksen Senate office building, to conduct a 
hearing entitled, ``Cleaning up our nation's Cold War legacy sites.''


                      Committee on Indian Affairs

  The Committee on Indian Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 29, 2017, in room 628 of the 
Dirksen Senate Office Building, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a hearing on 
``Native Youth: Promoting Diabetes Prevention Through Healthy Living.''


                      Committee on Indian Affairs

  The Committee on Indian Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 29, 2017, in room 628 of the 
Dirksen Senate Office Building, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a business 
meeting.


            Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship

  The Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate Wednesday, March 29, 2017 at 3 
p.m. in 428A Russell Senate Office Building to conduct a hearing 
entitled Examining How Small Businesses Confront and Shape Regulations.

[[Page S2115]]

  



                           Committee on Aging

  The Special Committee on Aging is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 29, 2017 to conduct a hearing 
entitled ``The Arc of Alzheimer's'' in room 106 of the Dirksen Senate 
Office Building at 2:30 p.m.


                    Select Committee on Intelligence

  The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet 
during the session of the 115th Congress of the U.S. Senate on 
Wednesday, March 29, 2017 from 12 p.m., in room SH-219 of the Senate 
Hart Office Building.


                        Subcommittee on Airland

  The Subcommittee on Airland of the Committee on Armed Services is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 
29, 2017, at 3:30 p.m.


           Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities

  The Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities of the 
Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Wednesday, March 29, 2017, at 10 a.m. in open session.


            Subcommittee on Readiness and Management Support

  The Subcommittee on Readiness and Management Support of the Committee 
on Armed Services be authorized to meet during the session of the 
Senate on Wednesday, March 29, 2017, at 2:15 p.m., in open session.


  Subcommittee on Federal Spending Oversight and Emergency Management

  The Subcommittee on Federal Spending Oversight and Emergency 
Management of the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs is authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on 
Wednesday, March 29, 2017, at 2:30 p.m. to conduct a hearing entitled 
``The Effect of Borrowing on Federal Spending.''


Subcommittee on East Asia, The Pacific, and International Cybersecurity

  The Committee on Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, The 
Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 29, 2017, at 2:15 
p.m., to hold a hearing entitled ``American Leadership in the Asia-
Pacific, Part 1: Security Issues.''


                   Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere

  The Committee on Foreign Relations subcommittee on Western Hemisphere 
is authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, 
March 29, 2017, at 10:15 a.m., to hold a hearing entitled ``The U.S.-
Mexico Relationship: Advancing Security and Prosperity on Both Sides of 
the Border.''

                          ____________________



