

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 27 (Wednesday, February 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 27 (Wednesday, February 15, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1221]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. ROUNDS. Mr. President, I have six requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to Rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


           committee on commerce, science, and transportation

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to hold a meeting during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, 
February 15, 2017, at 2:30 p.m. in room 253 of the Russell Senate 
Office Building. The committee will hold a subcommittee hearing on 
``Moving America: Stakeholder Perspectives on Our Multimodal 
Transportation System.''


               committee on environment and public works

  The Committee on Environment and Public Works is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, February 15, 2017, at 10 
a.m., in room 406 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building, to conduct a 
hearing entitled ``Oversight: Modernization of the Endangered Species 
Act.''


                     committee on foreign relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, February 15, 2017, at 10 a.m., to 
hold a hearing entitled ``Ending Modern Slavery: Building on Success.''


        committee on homeland security and governmental affairs

  The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, 
February 15, 2017, at 2:45 p.m. in order to conduct a hearing titled 
``High Risk: Government Operations Susceptible to Waste, Fraud, and 
Mismanagement.''


                       special committee on aging

  The Special Committee on Aging is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, February 15, 2017, to conduct a 
hearing entitled ``Stopping Senior Scams: Developments in Financial 
Fraud Affecting Seniors''. The committee will meet in room 562 of the 
Dirksen Senate Office Building beginning at 2:30 p.m.


           subcommittee on emerging threats and capabilities

  The Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities of the 
Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Wednesday, February 15, 2017, at 10 a.m.

                          ____________________



