

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 13 (Tuesday, January 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 13 (Tuesday, January 24, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H666]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1715
            CONGRATULATING CLEMSON UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL TEAM

  (Mr. RICE of South Carolina asked and was given permission to address 
the House for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. RICE of South Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate 
the Clemson University football team on their 2017 national 
championship.
  In a nail-biting rematch of the 2016 national championship game 
between the Clemson Tigers and the Alabama Crimson Tide, the Tigers 
came back with something to prove--and boy did they, with their 35-31 
win.
  While every member of the team played their hearts out, I would like 
to recognize a very special player who hails from the Seventh District 
of South Carolina, wide receiver Hunter Renfrow. A native of Horry 
County and graduate of Socastee High School, Mr. Renfrow has had an 
outstanding season, catching 44 passes, including 6 touchdowns, for a 
total of 495 yards this season. He joined the Tigers as a walk-on, 
earned a scholarship, and last week, with 1 second left, caught the 
game-winning touchdown in the championship game.
  I would also like to extend special congratulations to two of 
Clemson's finest alumni: my wife, Wrenzie, and my friend, Congressman 
Jeff Duncan. I know few people who take more pride in their alma mater 
and enjoyed this win as much as they did.
  This national title is a win for all of the great State of South 
Carolina. In fact, two national titles currently reside in South 
Carolina: the NCAA football championship in Clemson and the NCAA 
College World Series at Coastal Carolina University.
  Congratulations Clemson, and go Tigers.

                          ____________________



