

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 1 (Tuesday, January 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 1 (Tuesday, January 3, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H29]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  MAKING IN ORDER MORNING-HOUR DEBATE

  Mr. McCARTHY. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that during the 
first session of the 115th Congress:
  (1) on legislative days of Monday or Tuesday when the House convenes 
pursuant to House Resolution 9, the House shall convene 2 hours earlier 
than the time otherwise established by the resolution for the purpose 
of conducting morning-hour debate;
  (2) on legislative days of Wednesday or Thursday when the House 
convenes pursuant to House Resolution 9, the House shall convene 2 
hours earlier than the time otherwise established by the resolution for 
the purpose of conducting morning-hour debate;
  (3) when the House convenes pursuant to an order other than House 
Resolution 9, the House shall convene for the purpose of conducting 
morning-hour debate only as prescribed by such order;
  (4) the time for morning-hour debate shall be allocated equally 
between the parties and may not continue beyond 10 minutes before the 
hour appointed for the resumption of the session of the House; and
  (5) the form of proceeding for morning-hour debate shall be as 
follows:
  (a) the prayer by the Chaplain, the approval of the Journal and the 
Pledge of Allegiance to the flag shall be postponed until resumption of 
the session of the House;
  (b) initial and subsequent recognitions for debate shall alternate 
between the parties;
  (c) recognition shall be conferred by the Speaker only pursuant to 
lists submitted by the majority leader and by the minority leader;
  (d) no Member may address the House for longer than 5 minutes, except 
the majority leader, the minority leader, or the minority whip;
  (e) no legislative business shall be in order except the filing of 
privileged reports; and
  (f) following morning-hour debate, the Chair shall declare a recess 
pursuant to clause 12(a) of rule I until the time appointed for the 
resumption of the session of the House; and
  (6) the Speaker may dispense with morning-hour debate upon receipt of 
a notification described in clause 12(c) of rule I, or upon a change in 
reconvening pursuant to clause 12(e) of rule I, and notify Members 
accordingly.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from California?
  There was no objection.

                          ____________________



