

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 58 (Tuesday, April 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 58 (Tuesday, April 4, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2364-S2365]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 175

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the name of the Senator from New 
Mexico (Mr. Udall) was added as a cosponsor of S. 175, a bill to amend 
the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 to transfer 
certain funds to the Multiemployer Health Benefit Plan and the 1974 
United Mine Workers of America Pension Plan, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 236

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the names of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) and the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Booker) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 236, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to reform taxation of alcoholic beverages.


                                 S. 372

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Young) was added as a cosponsor of S. 372, a bill to amend the 
Tariff Act of 1930 to ensure that merchandise arriving through the mail 
shall be subject to review by U.S. Customs and Border Protection and to 
require the provision of advance electronic information on shipments of 
mail to U.S. Customs and Border Protection and for other purposes.


                                 S. 382

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the names of the Senator from 
Virginia (Mr. Kaine), the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Reed) and the 
Senator from Illinois (Mr. Durbin) were added as cosponsors of S. 382, 
a bill to require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to develop 
a voluntary registry to collect data on cancer incidence among 
firefighters.


                                 S. 459

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 459, a bill to designate 
the area between the intersections of Wisconsin Avenue, Northwest and 
Davis Street, Northwest and Wisconsin Avenue, Northwest and Edmunds 
Street, Northwest in Washington, District of Columbia, as ``Boris 
Nemtsov Plaza'', and for other purposes.


                                 S. 479

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the names of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Booker), the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Menendez) and the 
Senator from Delaware (Mr. Coons) were added as cosponsors of S. 479, a 
bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to waive 
coinsurance under Medicare for colorectal cancer screening tests, 
regardless of whether therapeutic intervention is required during the 
screening.


                                 S. 493

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Lee) was added as a cosponsor of S. 493, a bill to amend title 38, 
United States Code, to provide for the removal or demotion of employees 
of the Department of Veterans Affairs based on performance or 
misconduct, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 497

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 497, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for Medicare coverage of 
certain lymphedema compression treatment items as items of durable 
medical equipment.


                                 S. 568

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mrs. 
Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of S. 568, a bill to amend title XVIII 
of the Social Security Act to count a period of receipt of outpatient 
observation services in a hospital toward satisfying the 3-day 
inpatient hospital requirement for coverage of skilled nursing facility 
services under Medicare.


                                 S. 569

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from 
Tennessee (Mr. Alexander) was added as a cosponsor of S. 569, a bill to 
amend title 54, United States Code, to provide consistent and reliable 
authority for, and for the funding of, the Land and Water Conservation 
Fund to maximize the effectiveness of the Fund for future generations, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 577

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Roberts) was added as a cosponsor of S. 577, a bill to require 
each agency, in providing notice of a rule making, to include a link to 
a 100 word plain language summary of the proposed rule.


                                 S. 578

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Roberts) was added as a cosponsor of S. 578, a bill to amend title 
5, United States Code, to provide requirements for agency decision 
making based on science.


                                 S. 579

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Roberts) was added as a cosponsor of S. 579, a bill to require 
agencies to publish an advance notice of proposed rule making for major 
rules.


                                 S. 584

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Roberts) was added as a cosponsor of S. 584, a bill to amend 
chapter 6 of title 5, United States Code (commonly known as the 
Regulatory Flexibility Act), to ensure complete analysis of potential 
impacts on small entities of rules, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 630

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 630, a bill to 
amend the Afghan Allies Protection Act of 2009 to make 2,500 visas 
available for the Afghan Special Immigrant Visa program, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 697

  At the request of Mr. Daines, the name of the Senator from Maine (Ms. 
Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. 697, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to lower the mileage threshold for 
deduction in determining adjusted gross income of certain expenses of 
members of reserve components of the Armed Forces, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 717

  At the request of Mr. Sullivan, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 717, a bill to promote 
pro bono legal services as a critical way in which to empower survivors 
of domestic violence.


                                 S. 722

  At the request of Mr. Corker, the names of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Hatch) and the Senator from Nevada (Mr. Heller) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 722, a bill to impose sanctions with respect to Iran 
in relation to Iran's ballistic missile program, support for acts of 
international terrorism, and violations of human rights, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 733

  At the request of Ms. Murkowski, the names of the Senator from 
Montana (Mr. Tester), the Senator from Missouri (Mrs. McCaskill), the 
Senator from Virginia (Mr. Kaine) and the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. 
Klobuchar) were added as cosponsors of S. 733, a bill to protect and 
enhance opportunities for recreational hunting, fishing, and shooting, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 751

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the names of the Senator from Tennessee 
(Mr. Alexander) and the Senator from California (Mrs. Feinstein) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 751, a bill to amend title 54, United States 
Code, to establish, fund, and provide for the use of amounts in a 
National Park Service Legacy Restoration Fund to address the 
maintenance backlog of the National Park Service, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 770

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 770, a bill to 
require the Director of the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology to disseminate resources to help reduce small business 
cybersecurity risks, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 782

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Hatch) and the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Whitehouse) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 782, a bill to reauthorize the National Internet 
Crimes

[[Page S2365]]

Against Children Task Force Program, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 801

  At the request of Mr. Lee, the name of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Udall) was withdrawn as a cosponsor of S. 801, a bill to amend the 
Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 to provide compensatory time for 
employees in the private sector.


 =========================== NOTE =========================== 

  
  On page S2365, April 5, 2017, in the first column, the following 
appears: S.816 At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the 
Senator from Ohio. . .
  
  The online Record has been corrected to read: S. 801 At the 
request of Mr. Lee, the name of the Senator from New Mexico (Mr. 
Udall) was withdrawn as a cosponsor of S. 801, a bill to amend the 
Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 to provide compensatory time for 
employees in the private sector. S.816 At the request of Mr. 
Casey, the name of the Senator from Ohio. . .


 ========================= END NOTE ========================= 



                                 S. 816

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 816, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to allow rollovers from 529 programs to ABLE 
accounts.


                                 S. 817

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 817, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to increase the age requirement with respect to 
eligibility for qualified ABLE programs.


                                 S. 818

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 818, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to allow individuals with disabilities to save 
additional amounts in their ABLE accounts above the current annual 
maximum contribution if they work and earn income.


                                 S. 823

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 823, a bill 
to ensure the digital contents of electronic equipment and online 
accounts belonging to or in the possession of United States persons 
entering or exiting the United States are adequately protected at the 
border, and for other purposes.


                              S.J. RES. 5

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 5, a joint 
resolution removing the deadline for the ratification of the equal 
rights amendment.


                              S.J. RES. 6

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 6, a 
joint resolution proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the 
United States relative to equal rights for men and women.


                              S.J. RES. 28

  At the request of Mr. Inhofe, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cruz) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 28, a joint resolution 
providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, 
United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Administrator of the 
Environmental Protection Agency relating to accidental release 
prevention requirements of risk management programs under the Clean Air 
Act.


                               S. RES. 99

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the name of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 99, a 
resolution recognizing the 11 African-American soldiers of the 333rd 
Field Artillery Battalion who were massacred in Wereth, Belgium, during 
the Battle of the Bulge in December 1944.


                              S. RES. 106

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Mr. Johnson) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 106, a resolution 
expressing the sense of the Senate to support the territorial integrity 
of Georgia.


                              S. RES. 108

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 108, a resolution 
reaffirming the commitment of the United States to the United States-
Egypt partnership.


                              S. RES. 109

  At the request of Mr. Paul, the name of the Senator from Florida (Mr. 
Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 109, a resolution 
encouraging the Government of Pakistan to release Aasiya Noreen, 
internationally known as Asia Bibi, and reform its religiously 
intolerant laws regarding blasphemy.

                          ____________________



