

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H74-H86]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   MIDNIGHT RULES RELIEF ACT OF 2017


                             General Leave

  Mr. GOODLATTE. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
have5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and include 
extraneous materials on H.R. 21.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore.Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Virginia?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. GOODLATTE. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to section 5(b) of House 
Resolution 5, I call up the bill (H.R. 21) to amendchapter 8 of title 
5, United States Code, to provide for en bloc consideration in 
resolutions of disapproval for ``midnightrules'', and for other 
purposes, and ask for its immediate consideration.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  TheSPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to section 5(b) of House Resolution 
5, the bill is considered read.
  The text of the bill is asfollows:

                                H.R. 21

       Be itenacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Midnight Rules Relief Act of 
     2017''.

     SEC. 2. EN BLOC CONSIDERATION OF RESOLUTIONS OF DISAPPROVAL 
                   PERTAINING TO ``MIDNIGHT RULES''.

       (a) InGeneral.--Section 801(d) of title 5, United States 
     Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
       ``(4) In applyingsection 802 to rules described under 
     paragraph (1), a joint resolution of disapproval may contain 
     one or more such rules if thereport under subsection 
     (a)(1)(A) for each such rule was submitted during the final 
     year of a President's term.''.
       (b)Text of Resolving Clause.--Section 802(a) of title 5, 
     United States Code, is amended--
       (1) by inserting after ``resolvingclause of which is'' the 
     following: ``(except as otherwise provided in this 
     subsection)''; and
       (2) by adding at the end thefollowing: ``In the case of a 
     joint resolution under section 801(d)(4), the matter after 
     the resolving clause of such resolutionshall be as follows: 
     `That Congress disapproves the following rules: the rule 
     submitted by the __ relating to__; and the rule submitted by 
     the __ relating to __. Such rules shall have no force or 
     effect.' (Theblank spaces being appropriately filled in and 
     additional clauses describing additional rules to be included 
     asnecessary)''.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Goodlatte) 
and thegentleman from Michigan (Mr. Conyers) each will control 30 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Virginia.
  Mr. GOODLATTE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Speaker,Federal bureaucrats are continuously creating new and 
more complicated and costly burdens on hardworking Americans in the 
formof unnecessarily burdensome regulations. Clearly, some regulation 
is necessary to protect public safety, set general rules ofthe road, 
and accomplish other important goals.
  However, despite the fact that these goals can often be accomplished 
withrelatively simple guidance, Washington bureaucrats seem more 
determined than ever to create the most complicated puzzles theycan 
imagine, regardless of the compliance costs for small businesses or the 
new and innovative products entrepreneurs are forcedto shelve in order 
to comply with these overly complicated regulations.
  Bureaucrats also don't seem to care that Americanfamilies face higher 
prices for goods and have fewer job opportunities when employers are 
unnecessarily forced to factorwasteful costs of complying with overly 
burdensome regulations into their bottom lines.
  That is why, at the very beginningof the 115th Congress, we are 
prioritizing legislation to remove unnecessary regulatory burdens. 
Doing so is one of thefundamental steps we can take to make America 
more competitive again

[[Page H75]]

and put more Americans back to work again.
  Today,our specific focus is on reforming regulations that are hastily 
cobbled together in the waning weeks and months of an 
outgoingadministration. These regulations are particularly susceptible 
to abuse and, thus, have an even greater potential to underminejob 
opportunities, wages, and American competitiveness.
  As the Obama administration rushes to a close, Americans' freedomand 
prosperity are increasingly threatened by one of the most abusive 
features of modern bureaucracy--midnight regulation.
  Midnight regulation is one of the most vexing problems in 
Washington's overreaching regulatory system. Administration 
afteradministration, there is a spike in rulemaking activity during the 
last year of a President's term--particularly between electionday and 
Inauguration Day, but even in the months before then.
  These successive waves of midnight regulation present deeplytroubling 
issues. First and foremost, because outgoing administrations are no 
longer accountable to the voters, they are muchmore prone to issue 
midnight regulations that fly in the face of the electoral mandate the 
voters just gave the new, incomingadministration.
  Waves of midnight rules can also be very hard for Congress or a new 
administration to check adequately. As anew Congress and President 
begin their terms, both understandably must be focused on implementing 
the new priorities within themandates the voters have given them. That 
doesn't always leave time to focus on cleaning up all of the last acts 
of thedeparting administration.
  In addition, the Congressional Review Act currently allows Congress 
to disapprove ofregulations--including midnight regulations--only one 
at a time. A wave of midnight regulations can easily overwhelm 
Congress'ability to use one-rule-at-a-time resolutions as an effective 
check.
  Finally, it is well-documented that the rush byoutgoing 
administrations to impose midnight rules before the clock strikes 12 
leads to more poorly analyzed rules with lowerquality and lower 
benefits.
  The Obama administration has imposed more runaway regulation than any 
other in memory, and itsmidnight rulemaking period is no exception. 
When the House considered this legislation in the wake of last 
November's election,the administration had issued or planned to issue 
at least 180 midnight rules within the scope of this bill, including 
multiplebillion-dollar rules and more than 20 major rules imposing $100 
million or more in costs per year.
  In the intervening weeks,these figures have rapidly ballooned to the 
226 midnight rules issued or planned. During just the week of December 
12, theadministration issued 18 midnight regulations, imposing over $2 
billion in new costs. But this is not a partisan issue.Administrations 
of both parties have issued midnight rules in the past.
  The Judiciary Committee has been searching for aneffective solution 
to this problem for some time, and I applaud our colleague, Mr. Issa, 
for offering the Midnight RulesRelief Act to respond to the need. This 
bill offers a simple and powerful means to stop the problem of abusive 
midnightrules--allowing Congress to disapprove of any and all midnight 
regulations in one fell swoop by one en bloc disapprovalresolution 
under the Congressional Review Act.
  Any outgoing administration understanding that it has this Sword of 
Damocleshanging over its head will surely hesitate much more before 
abusing midnight rules. Further, once enabled to dispatch of 
allimproper midnight rules with one simple resolution, Congress and 
succeeding administrations would be free to focus more of theirenergies 
on the voters' new priorities, rather than the mess left by midnight 
rules.
  The relief offered by the bill,moreover, is highly flexible. No set 
number of regulations would have to be covered by a resolution. No 
category of regulationwould have to be included in or excluded from a 
resolution. On the contrary, any midnight rule disapproval resolution 
could besweeping or narrow, depending on how many rules merited 
inclusion.
  Finally, the Midnight Rules Relief Act offers a solutionthat is not 
intrusive upon legitimate executive branch authority. An outgoing 
administration remains free to conduct necessaryrulemaking activity up 
to the stroke of midnight on Inauguration Day. It then falls to 
Congress to respond swiftly andsurgically to the results, to accept the 
good and excise the bad.
  This is truly a better way to govern. That is why thereform embodied 
in this bill is featured in Speaker Ryan's Better Way agenda.
  I thank Mr. Issa for his work onthis important legislation.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the bill, and I reserve 
the balance of my time.
  Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, this is anunusual measure that is being brought forward 
under unusual circumstances. To begin with, this measure would, believe 
it or not,empower our Federal legislature to undo virtually every 
regulation submitted to the Congress since mid-June of last year 
throughthe end of 2016 last year. The bill accomplishes this--every 
regulation--by authorizing Congress to disapprove these rules througha 
single joint resolution, thereby depriving Members to consider the 
merits of each individual regulation. This presents anumber of 
problems.

                              {time}  1345

  As the administration has stated, witha threat of veto of an 
identical bill that was considered last November, the legislation 
``would create tremendous regulatoryuncertainty, potentially impose 
additional costs on businesses, and represent a step backwards for 
applying sound regulatoryprinciples to protect public health, safety, 
the environment, and other critical aspects of society.''
  This, in my view, isa cynical way of trying to legislate. For those 
concerned about the continued improvement of clean air and clean water, 
if wecare about the safety of the toys we give our children, if we care 
about the environment, then we must oppose this bill.
  Iurge my colleagues to join me. There hasn't been any deliberative 
process on the bill recently. It is amazing to me that we havesuch 
opposition to the bill. It would be overwhelming to put in the over 150 
labor organizations, consumer organizations,environmental 
organizations, and others who have openly asked us to oppose this bill.
  If that isn't enough, we have thebusiness community itself in 
opposition. The American Sustainable Business Council, which represents 
over 200,000 businesses--andI have a partial list of them--also opposes 
this measure. It is one of the rare instances in which I have brought 
to the floorlegislation that is opposed by both labor and by business 
as well.
  It is a little bit of an insult that this bill is beingconsidered, on 
top of that, under a closed rule. There can be no amendments to this 
measure.
  I am in a state of surprisethat on the second day of a new Congress 
we would come forward with a measure that could potentially jeopardize 
public healthand safety in so many different ways.
  I think that the opposition to this measure is so overwhelming that I 
am surprisedthat without hearings, without an opportunity for 
amendment, we are now considering a measure that has this much 
opposition.
  Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record a letter from Consumer Reports 
dated January 3, 2017.

                                             Consumer Reports,

                                  Washington, DC, January 3, 2017.
     U.S. House of Representatives,
     Washington,DC.
       Dear Representative: Consumer Reports and its policy and 
     mobilization arm, Consumers Union,strongly urge you to vote 
     no on H.R. 21, the so-called ``Midnight Rules Relief Act.'' 
     This bill would severely undermineaccountability to the 
     public regarding important protections and safeguards.
       Although the rules targeted by this legislationwere 
     finalized relatively recently, many have been under 
     development for several years. Consumers Union has provided 
     publiccomment on several of these regulations that were 
     designed to protect consumers against unsafe products, 
     dishonest businessdealings, and other hazards in the 
     marketplace that place their health, safety, or well-being at 
     risk. Agency experts carefullyexamined these hazards and 
     considered various alternative approaches to address them. 
     They sought input and guidance frombusinesses, consumer 
     organizations, outside scientific and legal experts, and the 
     public at

[[Page H76]]

     large, and ultimately developedfinal rules, explaining 
     publicly the basis and rationale for the adopted approach.
       The federal law known as the CongressionalReview Act (CRA) 
     already permits a regulation carefully developed over many 
     years to be erased by Congress, in a rushed processthat does 
     not reflect the same level of expertise or careful 
     consideration. Congress could even rescind a rule for reasons 
     thatmight be based not on any broader interests of the 
     public, but on the narrower, private special interests of 
     those seeking toavoid having appropriate obligations imposed 
     on their profit-making activities.
       The potential for the CRA to be employed inthe service of 
     special interests is at least somewhat held in check by the 
     fact that the law currently requires separatecongressional 
     action for erasing each regulation. A regulation considered 
     for erasure under the CRA must be brought to the Houseand 
     Senate in its own separate resolution, given its own debate 
     and vote, and sent to the President for its own signature 
     orveto. All officials involved in considering whether to 
     erase the regulation and its protections are thus put on 
     record, and canbe held accountable for their positions and 
     the consequences. Perhaps for this reason, there has only 
     been one regulationrescinded under the CRA in its 20-year 
     history.
       This important accountability check would be removed under 
     the ``MidnightRules Relief Act.'' By allowing erasure of 
     multiple regulations en bloc, this bill would enable Members 
     of Congress and thePresident to evade public accountability 
     for what Gould be ill-considered, politically motivated 
     decisions that result indevastating consequences. Under the 
     bill, no Member would ever have to be on record regarding any 
     specific regulation beingerased. In fact, any Member who 
     actually wants to cast a more selective vote, to erase 
     certain regulations but not others, wouldbe unable to do so.
       We are somewhat encouraged that the House Majority, after 
     initially acting behind closed doors to weakenthe Office of 
     Congressional Ethics, has reversed course in light of major 
     concerns raised about the impact on 
     congressionalaccountability. We urge all Members to also 
     recognize the damaging effects that this bill would have on 
     accountability and onthe ability of the American public to 
     trust their elected representatives. We strongly urge you to 
     vote no on the ``MidnightRules Relief Act.''
           Sincerely,
     Laura MacCleery,
       Vice President, Consumer Policy and Mobilization Consumer 
     Reports.
     George P. Slover,
       Senior Policy Counsel, Consumers Union.
     William C. Wallace,
       Policy Analyst, Consumers Union.

  Mr.CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. ISSA. Mr. Speaker, I yield 4 minutes tothe gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Marino).
  Mr. MARINO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today instrong support of the 
Midnight Rules Relief Act.
  Recently, impossible opportunities exist for this body to reassert 
itsauthority and work on behalf of the American people. The Midnight 
Rules Relief Act would provide Congress with an important toolto begin 
the process of dismantling the onerous regulatory burdens imposed over 
the past 8 years.
  As the chairman of theSubcommittee on Regulatory Reform, Commercial 
and Antitrust Law, I have dedicated considerable time over the past 2 
years toclosely monitoring the growth of the administrative state. The 
estimated regulatory costs across all years of the Obamaadministration 
are staggering. However, the regulatory onslaught in its final year 
alone--disastrous--shows the damage alreadydone and the greater impact 
that will fall on our economy.
  In 2016, 401 regulations were finalized. The total compliancecost for 
this period exceeds $164 billion and amounts to nearly 121 million 
paperwork hours. That is 401 regulations and $164billion. This is only 
during the final year of the Obama administration. It is no wonder that 
the American people sought a new,more promising direction for our 
country.
  Finally, the Congress has an opportunity to act to protect the 
American people andrepeal many of these crushing regulations. For us in 
Congress, we cannot forget what these numbers represent. For 
myconstituents and for Americans across the country, the billions in 
dollars of costs imposed on the economy represent jobs lost,routine 
bills that cannot be paid, and the American Dream slipping from their 
grasp.
  The true story of this regulatoryonslaught is told by workers at 
shuttered stores, factories, and power plants across the country. Their 
concerns and fears areours. As this current administration exits, we 
must remain vigilant to last-ditch efforts at crippling our economy.
  On topof those in recent months, a number of new regulations may 
still be finalized in a hurried, nontransparent fashion. The 
Americanpeople are concerned that our current regulatory process 
ignores the balancing of costs and benefits and the regulatory impacton 
their lives. From what we have seen over the past 8 years, it is clear 
that they should be.
  Starting this week, Congresshas an opportunity to reassert its 
constitutional authority and act for all Americans. The Midnight Rules 
Relief Act is a well-advised measure that gives Congress the ability to 
quickly examine and eliminate the mass of regulations promulgated in 
recentmonths. This has been done by both Republican and Democrat 
administrations.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues to supportthis bill.
  Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from New 
York (Mr.Nadler), a senior colleague, to speak on the measure before 
us.
  Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, Ithank the gentleman for yielding.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R. 21, the Midnight Rules 
Relief Act.
  Thisirresponsible legislation would enable Congress to wipe out 
hundreds, or even thousands, of regulations enacted during the 
finalyear of the President's term in office, in one fell swoop, with 
little examination, no deliberation, and little regard to theirimpact 
on public health or safety.
  Members from both sides of the aisle have expressed concern in recent 
years over rulesadopted during a Presidential transition period--
typically, the last 60 to 90 days of the President's term. But this 
legislationdiffers greatly from previous legislation that I and others 
have introduced in the past to deal with this problem.
  Forexample, the Midnight Rule Act, which I introduced in the 110th 
and 111th Congresses, would have merely delayed theimplementation of 
rules submitted to Congress within the final 90 days of a President's 
term, with appropriate exceptions forimminent threat to health and 
safety, enforcement of criminal laws, implementation of an 
international trade agreement, andnational security.
  This proposal was a response to concerns with last-minute rulemaking 
under the George W. Bushadministration, which was roundly criticized at 
the time for allowing insufficient time for public comment, ignoring 
publiccomments, and otherwise departing from accepted rulemaking 
practices.
  My bill would have given an incoming President 90 daysto determine if 
any rules issued should not go forward. This measure would have allowed 
legitimate regulatory reform to proceedon schedule while putting the 
power to review and overturn controversial new rules into the hands of 
the newly electedadministration.
  The legislation before us today, however, goes much further and 
creates a process to simply erase the lastmonths of an outgoing 
administration's regulatory agenda.
  Under the Congressional Review Act, Congress can overturn aregulation 
issued by the executive branch through a disapproval resolution that 
must be signed by the President. This bill wouldallow Congress to 
package these disapproval resolutions together and eliminate dozens, 
hundreds, or even thousands, ofregulations all at once, with little 
debate over the merits of any individual rule.
  Under the CRA, agencies would beprevented from proposing similar 
rules ever again, absent explicit congressional authorization. You 
would have a rule terminatedwith no debate because it is one of a 
thousand rules done away with in one resolution. You can't even look at 
it again.
  TheRepublican majority has waged an all-out assault on the regulatory 
process, trying to add hurdle after hurdle on the ability toissue 
regulations that protect public health and safety. Not content to grind 
the gears of rulemaking to a halt, they now wantto eliminate wholesale 
those regulations that have gone through the exhaustive rulemaking 
process--aprocess that often takes many years to complete.

  Even more concerning, this bill would apply to rules issued in the 
last 60legislative days of a President's

[[Page H77]]

term. Not calendar days, but legislative days.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.Hultgren). The time of the gentleman has 
expired.
  Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield thegentleman an additional 1 
minute.
  Mr. NADLER. Given how little we worked last year, this wouldmean that 
any regulation issued by the Obama administration, stretching back to 
June 13, 2016, could be canceled in one sweepingmotion, with hardly any 
consideration given to the merits of any individual regulation.
  Article II of the Constitutionprovides that a President shall serve a 
4-year term. But the Republicans seem to believe that this doesn't 
apply to PresidentObama. Somehow, when he was reelected by broad 
majority in 2012, he was given only a 3-year term. The Senate refused 
to considera Supreme Court nominee and, under this bill, his entire 
regulatory agenda for the last 6 months could be undone in an instant.
  While I am sympathetic to the need for an incoming administration to 
review regulations issued in the closing days of anoutgoing 
administration, this bill goes much further and allows for a rushed and 
partisan process that could undermine criticalhealth and safety 
regulations.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to oppose this irresponsible and 
dangerous legislation.
  Mr. ISSA. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, floor debate isboth for the people in the room and the 
people watching.
  Many of the new Members have not yet voted on a substantive pieceof 
legislation. So, Mr. Speaker, I reach out with a little piece of 
history--a large piece of history, perhaps--for the freshmenof both 
parties.
  First of all, this legislation is bipartisan. It is sponsored by both 
Republicans and Democrats.
  Secondof all, when Mr. Conyers, Mr. Nadler, and I were 16 years 
younger, in March of 2001, it was the last and only timethat the 
underlying law allowed for a regulation to be repealed. It was 
prominently called ergonomics. It was repealed. I hadthe honor of 
voting for that as a freshman.
  Since that time, in spite of the many regulations that some people 
don't like inone party or another, we have not seen fit to have a joint 
resolution repeal a regulation.
  So let's talk about what it takesto do that. It takes both Houses of 
the Congress and the President of the United States to repeal a 
regulation created by abureaucrat, or many bureaucrats--a regulation 
that may or may not be consistent with the law passed by this body, by 
the Senate,and by a President in this or a previous Congress.
  Again, for the freshmen, we are the body that creates laws, and we do 
sothrough a complex and difficult procedure. We pass it out of the 
House or Senate. We then pass it out of the other body. If thePresident 
signs it, it then still is subject to court challenge.

                              {time}  1400

  Now, let's go through the regulatory process: Proposed by a 
bureaucrat, given a period of time in which dissenters may be100 
percent, and still it becomes law if this body does not act. So now 
that gives you a little feel for the underlying law.Used once on a 
bipartisan basis to take back an unpopular regulation that has never 
been resubmitted under both 8 years of aRepublican and 8 years of a 
Democrat in the White House, and I repeat, the regulation that was 
previously recalled was so inerror that it has never been redone in 16 
years by two Presidents.
  Now, let's talk about the bill we have before us today.We all know 
that the House is a body that, when it wants to, can move fairly 
quickly, and the Senate is a body that seeminglymoves quickly only in 
recess. The fact is that the Senate takes a long time, and we have many 
regulations that may or may not beconsidered now or in the future.
  All this legislation does is allow for us to dispose of one or more 
regulations in anexpedited fashion in this body and have it seen in the 
same form in the Senate. Nothing more than that. It doesn't change 
theunderlying law. It doesn't change the fact that the House, the 
Senate, and a President must concur on taking back what isessentially a 
law--that is what a regulation is--created by bureaucrats not elected 
by any of us. So let's keep it as simple asthat.
  For the freshmen of either party, when you go to make a vote on this, 
remember, we are not changing the underlyinglaw. Only one regulation 
under the underlying law has ever been repealed, and it was bipartisan 
in both the House and the Senatewhen it was repealed. It has been 16 
years, and the few that will likely be considered under this act and 
the underlying lawwill be just that, a relatively few regulations that 
are believed to be unnecessary and for which the House, the Senate, and 
thePresident concur.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, Iyield 5 minutes to the gentleman from 
Georgia (Mr. Johnson), a distinguished member of the Committee on the 
Judiciary.
  Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to oppose the 
passage of the so-calledMidnight Rules Relief Act of 2017, H.R. 21. 
Let's not get it twisted. This is a mundane area that we are in, 
administrativereview processes and how we are going to deal with 
regulations coming out of Federal agencies. This is a mundane topic, 
but ithas real world implications.
  The bottom line is this is not a jobs bill. The American people sent 
Congress here to work onjobs and to work on economic security for 
Americans, and the first item of business out of this brand-new 
Congress is to gut theHouse Office of Congressional Ethics. Now, why 
would they want to do that? It was because they liked the idea of the 
foxguarding the henhouse. They wanted to put themselves in control over 
the henhouse once again, and the American people calledthem on it, and 
so they had to withdraw it.
  So what do they do? Today they come back with not a jobs bill but a 
regulatorybill, an antiregulatory bill, something that protects the 
health, safety, welfare, and well-being of Americans--little 
ones,elderly, workers, people who are consumers. They want to gut 
regulations.
  Now, what regulations do they want to gut? Theywill tell you, by the 
way, that gutting regulations helps to enhance job creation, but 
nothing can be further from the truthwhen you consider that under the 
last 8 years of President Obama, where we have had regulatory regimes 
established under theAffordable Care Act and also Dodd-Frank, we have 
created 15.6 million new jobs over 81 straight months of private sector 
jobgrowth. Unemployment is now approaching 4 percent, which is 
basically full employment. And wages are going up for Americans. Andso 
despite the Affordable Care Act and Dodd-Frank, you have got Americans 
that are prospering.
  What do the Republicans wantto do? They try to trick you into 
believing that they are going to create more jobs by removing 
regulations. What regulations dothey want to do away with? It is the 
Affordable Care Act and Dodd-Frank. So they want to reward their 
campaign contributors,Wall Street fat cats, with this legislation that 
will enable them to create conditions that will be similar to the ones 
thatPresident Obama inherited when he walked into the Presidency 8 
years ago. And you can't fail to remember how bleak and bad theeconomy 
was.
  The economy was in the tank. President Obama brought it back. Dodd-
Frank brought it back. And millions--20million more Americans now have 
health insurance than they had back then. And the cost of premiums for 
working people who hadinsurance through their jobs, the rate of 
increase has gone to the lowest level over the last 50-plus years. That 
is realbenefits.
  What the Republicans want to do, they have said they are going to 
repeal and replace ObamaCare. They don't haveanything to replace it 
with. They just simply want to repeal it, and that is the regulation 
that they seek to get at with thisbill, H.R. 21, Midnight Rules Relief 
Act of 2017. This is an attempt to bring the standard of living that 
Americans have come toenjoy to a halt. It is going to impact negatively 
our ability to be secure in our personal finances.
  New data from theAmerican Community Survey indicates that the number 
of uninsured Americans continues

[[Page H78]]

to decline every year. What happenswhen our rural hospitals close and 
when all the people from throughout the State have to converge on the 
emergency rooms of theurban hospitals, and it is uncompensated care? 
Who pays for it? You pay for it.
  Let's not get this legislation twisted.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentleman has expired.
  Mr. ISSA. Mr. Speaker, I yieldan additional 1 minute of my time to 
the gentleman.
  Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. This is an attack onyour ideals. I ask that 
my colleagues vote against this legislation.
  Mr.ISSA. I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I won't be long. There is nothing mundane about what we 
aredoing here. Every day in America, Congress passes a law maybe, but 
every working day in America, the bureaucracy passesregulations. The 
fact is, the American people know that the so-called regulatory state 
that has developed during the last halfcentury means that, whether 
Congress is in session or not, new laws are being created, new rules 
that cause people in realAmerica, working people and their companies, 
to have to figure out what new hurdle they have to jump over just to 
earn a living.
  That is what we are talking about here, that at least when those are 
grossly exceeded under the underlying law and intentionof Congress, 
Congress--the House, the Senate--in concert with the President, may, in 
fact, use the same tool, essentially themaking of law, in this case to 
rescind to law.
  I just want to again speak to the younger Members who may not know 
thehistory of this. All we are really talking about here in this act 
is, in fact, a law created to take away a regulation. What weare going 
to vote on will allow for, one, two, half a dozen regulations, if there 
were that many that we think are wrong,through our normal lawmaking 
process, in many ways, to be rescinded. The House has to vote a 
majority, the Senate has to vote amajority, and the President has to 
sign it. There really isn't a whole lot of difference between that and 
any other legislativebusiness that we do here.
  Now, I have worked with John Conyers both as a minority member and as 
my chairman. He is agood man. In this case, I believe that if he looked 
more broadly at the question of Congress' responsibility to review laws 
madeoutside of this body that he would support me. Notwithstanding not 
getting his support in this case, we do have both Republicansand 
Democrats on this bill. I expect that on the vote, in both the House 
and the Senate, it will be bipartisan, and any piece ofregulatory law 
that would come before this body and the Senate, I am confident, would 
have bipartisan support in order torescind a bad regulation.
  So I think for those who are concerned about the regulations somehow 
running amok, no regulationwill be rescinded under this law any 
different than any normal piece of legislation passed out of the House 
and the Senate andsigned by the President.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. CONYERS. Mr.Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  I want to thank the distinguished gentleman from California for 
pointingout how innocent this measure is, and I am astounded by his 
feeling that regulations shouldn't be examined one by one. Underthis 
measure, 61 regulations could be considered en bloc. To me, just trying 
to put together two regulations to revoke themwould be very, very hard 
to handle.
  What we are talking about here is a bill that would provide special 
interests with yetanother opportunity to block critical lifesaving 
regulations, and I want to say I have never had so much opposition to a 
billbrought to my attention before. 150 environmental organizations, 
consumer organizations, and labor organizations have urged theMembers 
of this body to oppose H.R. 21. It is incredible. And then not only are 
workers and consumers against this measure aswell as environmentalists, 
businesspeople are against it as well.
  I feel like there is some missing part to this thing. TheAmerican 
Sustainable Business Council has over 200,000 businesses. So here is 
labor and commerce combined, urging Congress notto do this on the 
second day of a new Congress with all the challenges that are before 
us, and he says it wouldn't create anyproblems. It would be okay to put 
in 1 or 2 or 3 or 5 or 20 or 30 or 40 or 50 or 60. This is incredible. 
It is not that we areworking so hard that we don't have time to examine 
each one on a particular basis.

                              {time}  1415

  Can you imagine this Congress trying to block regulations which would 
be offered in one bill that couldbe over 60 different regulations? I 
mean, it is unthinkable. It is not very practical at all.
  When we talk about meatlabeling regulations and then in another 
paragraph or another section there would be standards for school lunch 
nutrition, theywould be combined. My friend from California would say, 
well, that is no problem. We will take them separately, but they 
willall come in the same package.
  So if you wanted to examine all of these things individually, we 
could have an instance wherethe whole Congress could be consumed for 
weeks or for months trying to figure out why they should block all of 
these importantand sensible safeguards.
  Business and labor are joined with us, and, to me, it is beyond 
comprehension for us to beconcerned about not taking them up one at a 
time. This is worse than a conservative point of view, which I haven't 
found myselfoften agreeing with. But just to say let's have unlimited 
numbers of these blocking provisions all into one is beyond 
mycomprehension.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from Tennessee (Mr. 
Cohen), a distinguished member ofour committee.
  Mr. COHEN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the ranking member and chairman in 
the past, mychairman.
  This bill has come up over many years when I served on this 
subcommittee and was the ranking member and the chairat one time. Mr. 
Issa suggested it might only be six or seven regulations. If that was 
the case, they could take themindividually.
  There is a process where regulations can be brought before the House, 
in the Congressional Review Act, andeach one studied individually, and 
the House could overrule them. I can't fathom that they are bringing 
this bill for just sixregulations which they could do individually. But 
even then, that is wrong to put them all together. We know what is 
going tohappen is they are going to pass. They are going to pass the 
House. Whether they pass the Senate is another issue.
  These arenot midnight regulations. These are regulations that go back 
to last June. So the term ``midnight regulations'' is a misnomer.To say 
that these are just decisions made by bureaucrats, you would think 
bureaucrats were something out of a medical dictionarythat was highly 
contagious. Bureaucrats could also be called experts, specialists, 
dedicated government officials.
  There arepeople who study these issues that, to be implemented, need 
to be fine-tuned to fit into society, sometimes to protectconsumers, 
sometimes to protect commerce, and it takes years and years and years, 
often, for these regulations to take effect.Some of them protect 
animals--the soring industry.
  A great majority of this House was in favor of a bill to protect 
walkinghorses, but it didn't get a vote because there were some people 
in this House that were against it and against it so much thatthey 
worked to get one of the finest Members I have served with, Ed 
Whitfield, out of this House. That was despicable. I suspectthat same 
power that might have had that effect could bring that type of 
regulation up to be nullified. I would fear that, and Iwould find it 
wrong in the spirit of Ed Whitfield and fairness.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentleman hasexpired.
  Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield the gentleman an additional 1 
minute.
  Mr. COHEN. I like Ed Whitfield a lot. A lot of us did. He was a great 
guy. It was wrong, whathappened, the way he was forced out because a 
majority of this House wanted a vote on that and it could be put in 
thisregulation and it would go.
  Tobacco regulations, toys, protections for children, all potentially 
in jeopardy, as well asother regulations protecting four-legged 
friends.

[[Page H79]]

  I can imagine when this comes up and the decision is made which 
billsto put into this omnibus bill, you are going to have lots of 
lobbyists coming and wanting the bills that affect them adversely,their 
industry is put in it, and you are going to have fundraisers right 
around it. It is going to be a fundraising trough forthe Republicans to 
use and bidding basically on who wants to have their regulation put in 
our bill and have it nullified. Thenullification acts back in the 1830s 
with John Calhoun are back, not the midnight judges of President Adams.
  Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, how much time remains on each side?
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman fromMichigan has 6 minutes 
remaining. The gentleman from California has 13\1/2\ minutes remaining.
  Mr.ISSA. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  My colleague from Tennessee has been a good friend on manyissues. I 
know he is passionate about regulations and laws that he would like to 
have passed, and so am I.
  All of us inCongress have seen that it is extremely easy--the longer 
you are here, the more you will see it--it is extremely easy to 
stopsomething here. The same is true about those 61 or so regulations. 
Any combining of regulations, unless they are 
overwhelminglydisapproved, actually makes them harder to pass. We are 
not going to put 61 pieces of legislation, each of which has at 
leastone or two or three or a dozen Republicans who vehemently oppose 
that regulation being rescinded. The fact is it is only theworst of the 
worst that are going to be stayed through this process and then 
reevaluated by the new administration.
  I willmention, though, for my colleagues on the other side of this 
debate today, that we do appropriations every year. The Americanpeople, 
and for the freshmen who haven't voted on appropriations yet, think of 
appropriations as somehow different than the law.It really isn't. 
Appropriation is simply a law that provides funding.
  Every appropriation bill during the entire nearly 8 years of 
President Obama has been some form of a continuing resolution or an 
omnibus. But as my colleaguefrom Tennessee knows, every one of those 
has had dozens to hundreds of laws attached to them. We call them 
riders. We have termsfor them. The fact is that a single appropriations 
bill, often done just before the end of funding of the 
government,always--always--has dozens, if not hundreds, of laws 
attached to it.

  So the idea that we don't group together things which arerelatively 
noncontroversial, that will cause someone to still vote for the bill in 
spite of it being in there, would be to bedishonest to the freshmen who 
need to know that we do for efficiency bring together things that we 
can pass en bloc, and we doit all the time--and even major legislation. 
I dare say, the Affordable Care Act and others are, in fact, multiple 
pieces oflegislation put together in one package.
  So lest our freshmen who are about to take their first vote on a 
piece oflegislation--or one that could have a major impact--
misunderstand, bringing together multiple pieces into one bill is 
common, butit is always done in order to gain votes or to maintain 
votes. In fact, you do it at your folly if you lose votes.
  I wouldsay to my friend and colleague from Michigan that there is no 
likelihood that 61 pieces of regulation will be put togetherbecause 
there is no chance that there would be 61 pieces that even all 
Republicans would agree should be revoked. I wouldimagine the number 
would be less. I suspect that if my bill said 2 or 5 or 10, it would 
still be opposed for the same reason,which is that it creates 
inefficiency if there are multiple generally agreed bad pieces of 
legislation that need to beconsidered.
  Lastly, and I am not closing, but I think this may be one of my 
closing remarks, for freshmen to understand,this isn't even about the 
House. We have the procedures in the House where we could put these 
together. This is about the Senatethat can take 60 hours, 60 
legislative hours or more, to do one piece of legislation. We know that 
the Senate has confirmationsto do of judges and appointees for the 
Cabinet, and they have other legislative work, and we cannot afford to 
have them backedup now or in the future if there are multiple 
regulations that need to be rescinded.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance ofmy time.
  Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Virginia (Mr.Scott), who, up until recently, was a very active member 
of the House Judiciary Committee. He is now the ranking member onthe 
Education and the Workforce Committee.
  Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I rise inopposition to H.R. 21, 
the so-called Midnight Rules Relief Act, which amends the Congressional 
Review Act. The CongressionalReview Act allows Congress to overrule 
regulations promulgated by the executive branch. That law expects a 
deliberative approachto considering each and every rule.
  H.R. 21 would allow Congress to consider a joint resolution to 
simultaneously disapproveof multiple regulations all at once when such 
rules are issued in the last 60 legislative days of a session of 
Congress duringthe final year of a President's term. In this case, the 
60 legislative days reach-back would apply to rules issued as far 
backas June of last year, almost 7 months before the end of the 
President's term. To call rules issued that long ago a midnight ruleis 
a particular misnomer.
  This bill puts in place an indiscriminate process to eliminate rules, 
many of which have beenunder development for years--or even decades--to 
protect consumers, working families, and students. This bill denies 
Congress theopportunity for a careful, individualized, case-by-case 
review that is appropriate for a reasoned, decisionmaking 
legislativebody.
  Under the Congressional Review Act, if a rule is eliminated, such 
rule can never be taken up again in similar formwithout additional 
legislation overriding the restriction, even if the undesirable rule 
turns out, upon further reflection, tohave been the best alternative.
  Some of the rules that could be impacted that are just under the 
jurisdiction of theEducation and the Workforce Committee include the 
Department of Labor's rule requiring Federal contractors to provide up 
to 7days of paid sick leave annually for their employees; the upcoming 
OSHA rule, which has been under development for 18 years,which would 
protect workers from exposure to beryllium, a metal that can cause lung 
disease, resulting in a victim essentiallysuffocating to death; the 
Department of Education's rule involving the borrower's defense, which 
helps student borrowers who aredefrauded by their universities; and the 
Department of Education's K-12 accountability rule, which involves the 
implementationof the Every Student Succeeds Act, making sure that all 
students can graduate ready for success for college and career.
  TheSPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentleman has expired.
  Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I yieldthe gentleman an additional 30 
seconds.
  Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. H.R. 21 is poised to allowwholesale 
undermining of critical protections for students, workers, taxpayers, 
and consumers. I, therefore, urge a ``no'' vote.
  Mr. ISSA. Mr. Speaker, I continue to reserve the balance of my time.

                              {time}  1430

  Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to thegentlewoman from 
Florida (Ms. Castor).
  Ms. CASTOR of Florida. I thank the gentleman foryielding.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to the Republicans' Midnight 
Rules Relief Act.
  The bill is anunnecessary abdication of legislative responsibility by 
the Republican-led Congress, and it is very poor public policy. The 
billshort-circuits open debate and public participation. It is also 
very wasteful because it jettisons carefully and long-craftedpolicies 
that protect American families from threats to their economic security, 
their health, and their safety.
  Under theU.S. Constitution, after Congress passes a law, agencies 
craft rules to implement that legislation. If Members of Congress 
wantto clarify or change executive branch regulations, they have a 
responsibility to address the matter in a transparent way andthrough 
open, regular order. Republicans don't want to do that, however,

[[Page H80]]

because the public might find out what they aredoing.
  This Republican scheme sets a dangerous precedent by expanding the 
ability of the Congress to use the CongressionalReview Act to 
disapprove hundreds of carefully crafted policies at one time and with 
very little notice or debate. Republicanswant to reach back to last May 
and cherry-pick policies that they do not agree with.
  But how will the public know?
  Thatwill be difficult; and, in many instances, Republicans do not 
want the public to know.
  I urge my colleagues to reject thispower grab by the new Republican 
Congress. It is just like what they tried to do yesterday with the 
Office of CongressionalEthics. These policies don't just come out of 
thin air. There is a long, painstaking process with extensive public 
comment.Public participation doesn't appear to be a priority in this 
new Congress, so reject this dark bill. Side, instead, with 
ourdemocratic principles in America, which include open debate, 
transparency, fiscal responsibility, and the security of ourneighbors.
  Mr. ISSA. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  The gentlewomanfrom Florida, I am sure, is well intended, but there 
is nothing more transparent than calling up to the floor of this House 
anddebating the removal of regulations that have been found to be 
excessive or extreme or simply not consistent with the law. Thatis a 
transparent process. The term ``regular order,'' in fact, could not be 
more appropriate to that process. We passed a lawnearly three 
Presidents ago, if you will, that simply called for this procedure.
  All I am saying is we should not be mireddown, if there are five or 
six or eight bad regulations, in not combining them together for 
purposes of getting them disposed ofin a timely fashion. I might 
suggest to everyone that they remember that many of us did not support 
the regulation changeyesterday as to the ethics oversight, because we 
do believe in transparency and will continue to believe in 
transparency.
  Again, nothing is more transparent than bringing to the House floor 
the debate about something that is believed to have beenwrong done by 
unelected bureaucrats. ``Bureaucrat'' is not a dirty word, but 
``unelected'' fits this process.
  Mr. Speaker, Ireserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record a CRSReport that 
highlights the fact that it would be permissible under this proposed 
bill that as many as 61 regulations could bebundled into one package 
and blocked by this bill.

                                CongressionalResearch Service,

                                                  January 3, 2017.

                               Memorandum

     Subject: ``Major'' ObamaAdministration Rules Potentially 
         Eligible to be Overturned under the Congressional Review 
         Act in the 115th Congress.
     From:Maeve P. Carey, Specialist in Government Organization 
         and Management; Christopher M. Davis, Analyst on Congress 
         and theLegislative Process; Casey Burgat, Research 
         Assistant.
       This memorandum lists ``major'' rules issued byfederal 
     agencies under the Barack Obama Administration that are 
     potentially subject to consideration under the procedures of 
     theCongressional Review Act (CRA) in the 115th Congress. This 
     is an updated version of a general distribution memorandum 
     releasedby CRS on November 17, 2016, and previously updated 
     on December 6, 2016.


               Background on theCongressional Review Act

       The CRA is a tool that Congress may use to overturn a rule 
     issued by a federalagency, including, in some cases, rules 
     issued in a previous session of Congress and by a previous 
     President. The CRA requiresagencies to report on their 
     rulemaking activities to Congress and provides Congress with 
     a special set of procedures under whichto consider 
     legislation to overturn those rules. The CRA, which was 
     enacted in 1996, was largely intended to assert control 
     overagency rulemaking by establishing a special set of 
     expedited or ``fast track'' legislative procedures for this 
     purpose,primarily in the Senate.
       Of the approximately 73,000 final rules that have been 
     submitted to Congress since the legislationwas enacted in 
     1996, the CRA has been used to disapprove one rule: the 
     Occupational Safety and Health Administration's November2000 
     final rule on ergonomics, which was overturned using the CRA 
     in March 2001. The primary reason the CRA has overturned 
     onerule in the 20 years since its enactment is that under 
     most circumstances, it is likely that a President would veto 
     such aresolution in order to protect rules developed under 
     his own administration, and it may also be difficult for 
     Congress to musterthe two-thirds vote in both houses needed 
     to overturn the veto. However, under a specific set of 
     circumstances--a turnover inparty control of the White House, 
     particularly a turnover in which the incoming President 
     shares a party affiliation with amajority in both houses of 
     Congress--the CRA is more likely to be used successfully. The 
     March 2001 rejection of the ergonomicsrule was the result of 
     that set of circumstances. Similar circumstances will take 
     place in 2017 after the start of the 115thCongress and after 
     President-elect Donald J. Trump is sworn into office.


                         CRA ``Reset''Mechanism

       Section 801(d) of the CRA provides that, if Congress 
     adjourns its annual session sine die lessthan 60 legislative 
     days in the House of Representatives or 60 session days in 
     the Senate after a rule is submitted to it, thenthe periods 
     to submit and act on a disapproval resolution ``reset'' in 
     their entirety in the next session of Congress'' Thepurpose 
     of this provision is to ensure that both houses of Congress 
     have sufficient time to consider disapproving rulessubmitted 
     during this end-of-session ``carryover period.'' This 
     provision applies in every session of Congress, but it is 
     ofparticular relevance in sessions of Congress that coincide 
     with presidential transitions. This provision allows, for a 
     limitedtime period, a new Congress to consider a joint 
     resolution disapproving a rule issued late in the previous 
     administration. Ifintroduced and considered at the proper 
     time, such a joint resolution cannot be filibustered in the 
     Senate.
       The projectedsecond-session meeting schedules of the House 
     and Senate issued by each chamber's majority leader may be 
     used to estimate thedate in 2016 after which final rules 
     submitted to Congress will be subject to the renewed review 
     periods in 2017 describedabove. The estimated start of the 
     reset period for all rules was determined by counting back 
     from the projected sine dieadjournment in the respective 
     chambers--60 days of session in the Senate and 60 legislative 
     days in the House--then taking theearlier of the two dates.
       Under this calculation, CRS estimates that agency final 
     rules submitted to Congress on or afterJune 13, 2016, will be 
     subject to renewed review periods in 2017 by a new President 
     and a new Congress. CRS day count estimatesare unofficial and 
     non-binding; the House and Senate Parliamentarians are the 
     sole definitive arbiters of the operation of theCRA mechanism 
     and should be consulted if a formal opinion is desired.


     ``Major'' ObamaAdministration Rules Potentially Eligible for 
                  Consideration under the CRA in 2017

       Using this estimatedreset date of June 13, 2016, CRS 
     compiled a list of major rules that would fall under this 
     reset period--i.e., rules that couldbe overturned in the 
     115th Congress using the CRA.
       Table 1 lists the major rules CRS has identified as of 
     January 3, 2017,that could be eligible for the reset 
     mechanism. To identify these rules, CRS used a two-step 
     process. First, CRS consulted theGovernment Accountability 
     Office's (GAO's) federal rules database to identify major 
     rules that were issued during calendar year2016 and posted on 
     GAO's website as of January 3, 2017. Second, CRS used LIS's 
     ``Executive Communications'' database to identifywhen these 
     rules were received in Congress.

  MajorRules Issued by the Obama Administration That Are Potentially 
Eligible for Disapproval Under the Congressional Review Act in the115th 
                                Congress


       major rules listed on gao's website as of january 3, 2017

       Title of Rule (As Published in Federal Register) and RIN 
     Numbers are as follows:
       Exemptions To Facilitate Intrastateand Regional Securities 
     Offerings, 3235-AL80; Investment Company Liquidity Risk 
     Management Programs, 3235-AL61; Retention ofEB-1, EB-2, and 
     EB-3 Immigrant Workers and Program Improvements Affecting 
     High-Skilled NonImmigrant Workers, 1615-ACO5;Walking-Working 
     Surfaces and Personal Protective Equipment (Fall Protection 
     Systems), 1216-AB80; Waste Prevention, ProductionSubject to 
     Royalties, and Resource Conservation, 1004-AE14; Investment 
     Company Swing Pricing, 3235-AL61; Establishing a 
     MoreEffective Fair Market Rent System; Using Small Area Fair 
     Market Rents in the Housing Choice Voucher Program Instead of 
     theCurrent 50th Percentile FMRs, 2501-AD74; Medicare Program; 
     Revisions to Payment Policies Under the Physician Fee 
     Schedule andOther Revisions to Part B for CY 2017; Medicare 
     Advantage Bid Pricing Data Release; Medicare Advantage and 
     Part D Medical LossRatio Data Release; Medicare Advantage 
     Provider Network Requirements; Expansion of Medicare Diabetes 
     Prevention Program Model;Medicare Shared Savings Program 
     Requirements, 0938-AS81.
       Medicare Program; CY 2017 Inpatient Hospital Deductible and 
     Hospitaland Extended Care Services Coinsurance Amounts, 0938-
     AS70; Medicare Program; Medicare Part B Monthly Actuarial 
     Rates, PremiumRate,

[[Page H81]]

     and Annual Deductible Beginning January 1, 2017, 0938-AS72; 
     Hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment and 
     AmbulatorySurgical Center Payment Systems and Quality 
     Reporting Programs; Organ Procurement Organization Reporting 
     and Communication;Transplant Outcome Measures and 
     Documentation Requirements; Electronic Health Record (EHR) 
     Incentive Programs; Payment toNonexcepted Off-Campus 
     Provider-Based Department of a Hospital; Hospital Value-Based 
     Purchasing (VBP) Program; Establishment ofPayment Rates Under 
     the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule for Nonexcepted Items and 
     Services Furnished by an Off-Campus Provider-Based Department 
     of a Hospital, 0938-AS82; Medicare Program; Merit-Based 
     Incentive Payment System (MIPS) and Alternative PaymentModel 
     (APM) Incentive Under the Physician Fee Schedule, and 
     Criteria for Physician-Focused Payment Models, 0938-AS69; 
     Medicareand Medicaid Programs; CY 2017 Home Health 
     Prospective Payment System Rate Update; Home Health Value-
     Based Purchasing Model; andHome Health Quality Reporting 
     Requirements, 0938-AS80; Student Assistance General 
     Provisions, Federal Perkins Loan Program,Federal Family 
     Education Loan Program, William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan 
     Program, and Teacher Education Assistance for Collegeand 
     Higher Education Grant Program, 1840-AD19; Energy 
     Conservation Program: Energy Conservation Standards for 
     MiscellaneousRefrigeration Products, 1904-AC51.
       Medicaid Program; Final FY 2014 and PreliminaryFY 2016 
     Disproportionate Share Hospital Allotments, and Final FY 2014 
     and Preliminary FY 2016 Institutions for Mental 
     DiseasesDisproportionate Share Hospital Limits, 0938-ZB30; 
     Cross-State Air Pollution Rule Update For The 2008 Ozone 
     NAAQS, 2060-AS05;Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Fuel Efficiency 
     Standards for Medium-and Heavy-Duty Engines and Vehicles--
     Phase 2, 2060-AS16; U.S.Citizenship and Immigration Services 
     Fee Schedule, 1615-AC09; Treatment of Certain Interests in 
     Corporations as Stock orIndebtedness, 1545-BN40; 
     Establishment of the Electronic Visa Update System (EVUS), 
     1651-ABO8; ONC Health IT CertificationProgram: Enhanced 
     Oversight and Accountability, 0955-AA00; Clearing Requirement 
     Determination Under Section 2(H) of theCommodity Exchange Act 
     For Interest Rate Swaps, 3038-AE20; Standards For Covered 
     Clearing Agencies, 3235-AL48.
       Medicare andMedicaid Programs, Reform of Requirements for 
     Long-Term Care Facilities, 0938-AR61; Child Care And 
     Development Fund (CCDF)Program, 0970-AC67; Establishing Paid 
     Sick Leave For Federal Contractors, 1235-AA13; OCC Guidelines 
     Establishing Standards ForRecovery Planning By Certain Large 
     Insured National Banks, Insured Federal Savings Associations, 
     And Insured Federal Branches;Technical Amendments, 1557-AD96; 
     Emergency Preparedness Requirements For Medicare And Medicaid 
     Participating Providers AndSuppliers, 0938-A091; Migratory 
     Bird Hunting Regulations On Certain Federal Indian 
     Reservations And Ceded Lands For The2016-17 Season, 1018-
     BA70; Safety And Effectiveness Of Consumer Antiseptics; 
     Topical Antimicrobial Drug Products For Over-The-Counter-
     Human Use, 0910-AF69; Head Start Performance Standards, 0970-
     AC63; Standards Of Performance For Municipal Solid 
     WasteLandfills, 2060-AMO8; Emission Guidelines And Compliance 
     Times For Municipal Solid Waste Landfills, 2060-AS23.
       FederalAcquisition Regulation; Fair Pay And Safe 
     Workplaces, 9000-AM81; Medicare Program; Hospital Inpatient 
     Prospective PaymentSystems For Acute Care Hospitals And The 
     Long-Term Care Hospital Prospective Payment System & Policy 
     Changes & Fiscal Year 2017Rates; Quality Reporting 
     Requirements For Specific Providers; Graduate Medical 
     Education; Hospital Notification ProceduresApplicable To 
     Beneficiaries Receiving Observation Services; Technical 
     Changes Relating To Costs To Organizations & Medicare 
     CostReports; Finalization Of Interim Final Rules With Comment 
     Period On LTCH PPS Payments For Severe Wounds, Modifications 
     OfLimitations On Redesignation By The Medicare Geographic 
     Classification Review Board, & Extensions Of Payments To MDHS 
     And Low-Volume Hospitals, 0938-A577; 0938-A588; 0938-AS41; 
     Workforce Innovation And Opportunity Act; Joint Rule For 
     Unified And CombinedState Plans, Performance Accountability, 
     And The One-Stop System Joint Provisions; Final Rule, 1205-
     AB74; Workforce InnovationAnd Opportunity Act, 1205-AB73; 
     Medicare Program; Prospective Payment System And Consolidated 
     Billing For Skilled NursingFacilities For FY 2017, SNF Value-
     Based Purchasing Program, SNF Quality Reporting Program, And 
     SNF Payment Models Research,0938-AS75.
       Medicare Program; Inpatient Rehabilitation Facility 
     Prospective Payment System For Federal Fiscal Year 2017, 
     0938-AS78; Medicare Program; FF 2017 Hospice Wage Index And 
     Payment Rate Update And Hospice Quality Reporting 
     Requirements, 0938-AS79; Margin And Capital Requirements For 
     Covered Swap Entities, 3052-AC69; Medicare Program; FY 2017 
     Inpatient PsychiatricFacilities Prospective Payment System--
     Rate Update, 0938-AS76; National School Lunch Program And 
     School Breakfast Program.Nutrition Standards For All Foods 
     Sold In School As Required By The Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids 
     Act Of 2010, 0584-AE09; RevisedCritical Infrastructure 
     Protection Reliability Standards No RIN provided; Amendments 
     To The Commission's Rules Of Practice,3235-AL87; Disclosure 
     Of Payments By Resource Extraction Issuers, 3235-AL53; 
     Migratory Bird Hunting; Seasons And Bag AndPossession Limits 
     For Certain Migratory Game Birds, 1018-BA70; Oil And Gas And 
     Sulfur Operations On The Outer ContinentalShelf--Requirements 
     For Exploratory Drilling On The Arctic Outer Continental 
     Shelf, 1082-AA00.
       Medication Assisted TreatmentFor Opioid Use Disorders, 
     0930-AA22; Department Of Labor Federal Civil Penalties 
     Inflation Adjustment Act Catch-Up Adjustments,1290-AA31; 
     General Administrative Regulations; Catastrophic Risk 
     Protection Endorsement; Area Risk Protection 
     InsuranceRegulations; And The Common Crop Insurance 
     Regulations, Basic Provisions, 0563-AC49; Transition 
     Assistance Program (TAP) ForMilitary Personnel, 0790-AJ17; 
     Operation And Certification Of Small Unmanned Aircraft 
     Systems, 2120-AJ60; Transit AssetManagement, National Transit 
     Database; FTA-2014-0020, 092132-ABO7; Revision Of Fee 
     Schedules; Fee Recovery For Fiscal Year2016, 3150-AJ66; 
     Medicare Program; Medicare Clinical Diagnostic Laboratory 
     Tests Payment System, 0938-AS33; James Zadroga 9/11Victim 
     Compensation Fund Reauthorization Act, 1105-AB49; Energy 
     Conservation Program: Energy Conservation Standards For 
     BatteryChargers, 1904-AB57; Energy Conservation Program: 
     Energy Conservation Standards For Dehumidifiers, 1904-AC81; 
     Removal OfMandatory Country Of Origin Labeling Requirements 
     For Beef And Pork Muscle Cuts, Ground Beef, And Ground Pork, 
     0581-AD29.

  Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield the balance of my time to the 
gentlewomanfrom New York (Ms. Velazquez).
  Ms. VELAZQUEZ. I thank the gentleman foryielding.
  Mr. Speaker, here we go again with another piece of misguided 
legislation, but this one will jeopardize the healthand safety of the 
American people to benefit corporate America and polluters.
  Let's be clear. The protections that will beoverwhelmingly targeted 
by this measure are not so-called midnight regulations. These are rules 
that went through significantvetting. There are a host of statutes that 
govern how regulations are crafted. From the Administrative Procedure 
Act to theRegulatory Flexibility Act, to the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act, to the Paperwork Reduction Act, there are numerous processes 
toensure regulations are written in a way that protect the American 
people while preventing overreach.
  Mr. Speaker, as theranking member of the Small Business Committee, I 
am well acquainted with the need to ensure that the regulatory process 
isbalanced. No one here supports overregulation; but, at the same time, 
we cannot eliminate safeguards that have a proven recordof protecting 
the American public. This bill also has the potential to create 
significant regulatory uncertainty for the samesmall businesses my 
colleagues say they are trying to help.
  At its core, this bill is about enabling the largest and mostpowerful 
corporations to run rampant--without accountability. The legislation 
before us could result in less protections forconsumers, and it could 
strip away workplace protections. We should reject this bill. I urge my 
colleagues to vote ``no.''
  Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr.ISSA. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to how much time I have 
remaining?
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman fromCalifornia has 7\1/2\ 
minutes remaining, and the time of the gentleman from Michigan has 
expired.
  Mr. ISSA. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.
  I served on the Small Business Committee with Ms.Velazquez a long 
time ago. One thing that we all know is, with regard to that committee, 
the NFIB--the NationalFederation of Independent Business--and small 
business groups alike are something we look at, even NAM--the National 
Associationof Manufacturers--and, of course, the Chamber. All of those 
organizations support this legislation. They have written letters 
insupport, and I include in the Record those letters.
       Thefollowing is a list of supporters of H.R. 21, the 
     Midnight Rules Relief Act:
       American Action Forum, American Center for Lawand Justice, 
     American Commitment, American Energy Alliance, American Fuel 
     and Petrochemical Manufacturers, Americans forProsperity--Key 
     Vote, Americans for Tax Reform, Associated Builders and 
     Contractors, Competitive Enterprise Institute, ConcernedWomen 
     for America.
       Family Business Coalition, FreedomWorks, Heating Air-
     conditioning & Refrigeration DistributorsInternational

[[Page H82]]

     (HARDI), International Franchise Association, Let Freedom 
     Ring, National Association of ElectricalDistributors (NAED), 
     National Association of Manufacturers, National Federation 
     for Independent Business, R Street Institute,SBE Council, 
     U.S. Chamber of Commerce.
                                  ____

                                               Associated Builders


                                        and Contractors, Inc.,

                                                  January 4, 2017.
     House ofRepresentatives,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Representative: On behalf of Associated Builders 
     andContractors (ABC), a national construction industry trade 
     association with 70 chapters representing nearly 21,000 
     chaptermembers, I am writing in regard to the Regulations 
     from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act of 2017 
     (H.R. 26)introduced by Rep. Doug Collins (R-GA) as well as 
     the Midnight Rules Relief Act of 2017 (H.R. 21) introduced by 
     Rep. DarrellIssa (R-CA).
       From 2009 to present, the federal government imposed nearly 
     $900 billion in regulatory costs on the Americanpeople which 
     requires billions of hours of paperwork. Many of these 
     regulations have been or will be imposed on the 
     constructionindustry. ABC is committed to reforming the 
     broken federal regulatory process and ensuring industry 
     stakeholders' voices areheard and rights are protected. ABC 
     supports increased transparency and opportunities for 
     regulatory oversight by Congress andultimately, the American 
     people.
       The Obama administration issued numerous rulemakings that 
     detrimentally impact theconstruction industry. In some cases, 
     these regulations are based on conjecture and speculation, 
     lacking foundation in soundscientific analysis. For the 
     construction industry, unjustified and unnecessary 
     regulations translate to higher costs, which arethen passed 
     along to the consumer or lead to construction projects being 
     priced out of the market. This chain reactionultimately 
     results in fewer projects, and hinders businesses' ability to 
     hire and expand.
       ABC members understand the value ofstandards and 
     regulations when they are based on solid evidence, with 
     appropriate consideration paid to implementation costs 
     andinput from the business community. Federal agencies must 
     be held accountable for full compliance with existing 
     rulemakingstatutes and requirements when promulgating 
     regulations to ensure they are necessary, current and cost-
     effective for businessesto implement.
       ABC opposes unnecessary, burdensome and costly regulations 
     resulting from the efforts of Washington bureaucratswho have 
     little accountability for their actions. H.R. 26 will help to 
     bring greater accountability to the rulemaking process asit 
     would require any executive branch rule or regulation with an 
     annual economic impact of $100 million or more to come 
     beforeCongress for an up-or-down vote before being enacted. 
     Moreover, H.R. 21 will further enhance congressional 
     oversight of theoverreaching regulations often issued during 
     the final months of a president's term and help to revive the 
     division ofpowers.
       Thank you for your attention on this important matter and 
     we urge the House to pass the Regulations from theExecutive 
     in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act of 2017 and Midnight Rules 
     Relief Act of 2017 when they come to the floor for avote.
           Sincerely,
                                               Kristen Swearingen,
     Vice President of Legislative & Political Affairs.
                                  ____

                                            National Associationof


                                                Manufacturers,

                                                  January 4, 2017.
     House of Representatives,
     Washington, DC.
       DearRepresentative: On behalf of the National Association 
     of Manufacturers (NAM), I am writing to express 
     manufacturers' supportfor the passage of H.R. 21, the 
     Midnight Rules Relief Act of 2017, introduced by Congressman 
     Darrell Issa (R-CA).
       The NAMis the largest manufacturing association in the 
     United States, representing small and large manufacturers in 
     every industrialsector and in all 50 states. Manufacturing 
     employs nearly 12 million men and women, contributes more 
     than $1.8 trillion to theU.S. economy annually, has the 
     largest economic impact of any major sector, and accounts for 
     two-thirds of private sectorresearch and development. The NAM 
     is the leading advocate for a policy agenda that helps 
     manufacturers compete in the globaleconomy and create jobs 
     across the United States.
       The Midnight Rules Relief Act of 2017 would amend the 
     Congressional ReviewAct to provide Congress the authority to 
     consider one joint resolution of disapproval for regulations 
     en bloc as opposed to asingle regulation at a time. As the 
     end of an Administration approaches, there is an incentive 
     for federal agencies to issue asignificant number of 
     regulations. These are known as midnight rules, and H.R. 21 
     would allow Congress to effectively respond toregulations 
     that conflict with congressional intent, exceed an agency's 
     statutory authority or are hastily drafted and issued asan 
     Administration prepares its departure.
       The problem of midnight rules is not new and is not unique 
     to a particularpolitical party. As an administration attempts 
     to complete its regulatory agenda, an abundance of midnight 
     rules can overwhelmCongress' ability to engage in proper 
     oversight of federal agencies. Midnight rules can be issued 
     without justification andwithout an agency conducting proper 
     regulatory analysis. Congress should be granted the authority 
     needed to appropriatelyrespond to the issuance of a midnight 
     rules that might not be drafted in accordance with sound 
     regulatoryprinciples.
       Manufacturers support a regulatory system that results in 
     regulations that efficiently and effectively achievepolicy 
     objectives, and we urge you to support passage of H.R. 21, 
     the Midnight Rules Relief Act of 2017.
       Thank you for yourconsideration.
           Sincerely,
     Rosario Palmieri.
                                  ____


              [From Americanactionforum.org, Jan. 3, 2017]

                      The Regulatory CleanupBegins

              (By Douglas Holtz-Eakin, Patrick Hefflinger)

       On Wednesday Vice President-elect MikePence is scheduled to 
     meet with House Republicans to discuss Obamacare repeal and 
     replacement plans. Republicans are expected todelay repealing 
     parts of Obamacare to allow for more time to design a 
     replacement health care plan. President Obama is expectedto 
     meet with Congressional Democrats on Wednesday as well to 
     discuss plans for defending Obamacare from repeal.
       Last week theDepartment of Justice (DOJ) announced that 
     they had reached final agreements with Swiss banks on the 
     Swiss Bank Program. Theprogram aims to help financial 
     institutions avoid criminal liabilities due to U.S. tax 
     crimes by granting banks non-prosecutioneligibility if they 
     meet certain requirements. The Swiss Bank program was 
     initially announced in 2013.


               Eakinomics: The Regulatory Cleanup Begins

       The tally has been mounting for years--over 3,000costly 
     regulations totaling nearly $875 billion in finalized burden 
     costs. As the economy became increasingly festooned withrule 
     making and regulatory drag, conservatives have promised to 
     bring the regulatory state to sanity given the 
     firstopportunity. That moment has presumably arrived. 
     Congress returns from the holidays with plans to get started.
       Specifically,I expect that the House will begin cleaning up 
     the midnight regulatory onslaught by the Obama 
     administration. Historically, thiswould have required a 
     regulation-by-regulation use of the Congressional Review Act 
     (CRA). Instead, the House will consider abill (HR 5982 in the 
     last Congress), which would permit Congress to disapprove 
     multiple midnight rules en banc--in a singleresolution.
       That takes care of the last-gasp efforts of the outgoing 
     president. But what guarantees better performance in 
     thefuture? The House will next turn to the Regulations from 
     the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act. With the REINS 
     Act,Congress would have 70 legislative days to approve a 
     major rule with economic impact over $100 million. Only then 
     would it besent to the president for signature. Without a 
     positive vote, the regulation would not take effect. If 
     enacted, REINS could savemore than $27 billion in annual 
     regulatory costs and 11.5 million paperwork burden hours 
     according to AAF research by SamBatkins.
       Passage of the REINS Act (or other, similar, legislation) 
     would insert Congress more firmly into the regulatoryprocess, 
     a significant change that is not done lightly. However, the 
     lesson of the past eight years is that even withoutexecutive 
     overreach the regulatory process does not correctly balance 
     benefits and costs; a recalibration of the underlyingprocess 
     is overdue.
                                                  Small Business &


                                     Entrepreneurship Council,

                                       Vienna, VA, January 3,2017.
     Hon. Darrell Issa,
     House of Representatives,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear RepresentativeIssa: The Small Business 
     Entrepreneurship Council (SBE Council) strongly supports the 
     ``Midnight Rules Relief Act.'' Thislegislation is vital as it 
     provides a needed check against the surge in new and 
     questionable regulatory activity that isflooding into the 
     Federal Register, which will eventually make its way to small 
     businesses.
       While ``midnight regulations''have been a problem across 
     Administrations, what is happening in the current period is 
     staggering. According to the AmericanAction Forum, the 
     current output of midnight rules is up 42 percent over 2008, 
     and 48 percent over 2000. This regulatory surgemust be 
     ``checked'' and contained by Congress before it causes 
     permanent damage to the competitiveness of many types of 
     smallbusinesses.
       The end-game push on the regulatory front will undoubtedly 
     show that shortcuts were taken in a process meant toprotect 
     small businesses. Mercatus Center research found that the 
     quality of analysis suffers during the midnight 
     regulatoryperiod, which means these regulations are 
     ``excessively costly'' or ineffective. Poorly constructed and 
     politically-drivenregulation will only create more 
     uncertainty and costs for our nation's struggling small 
     businesses.
       Your legislation willprovide Congress with needed 
     flexibility in using the Congressional Review Act (CRA) by 
     allowing a CRA resolution to addressmore than one regulation. 
     This important reform enhances the CRA and allows Congress to 
     use its time efficiently to address themany issues that face 
     our economy and nation.
       Thank you for your continued leadership on issues important 
     to entrepreneursand

[[Page H83]]

     small businesses. Please let us know how we can help to 
     ensure the ``Midnight Rules Relief Act'' is signed intolaw.
           Sincerely,
                                                   Karen Kerrigan,
     President & CEO.
                                  ____


                     [From Townhall, Jan. 4, 2017]

       The House Can Start Reversing Obama's RegulatoryOverreach

                         (By Christine Harbin)

       President Obama has made a series of executive decisions 
     inhis final weeks in office that will undoubtedly harm the 
     economy.
       Particularly egregious were his recent announcements 
     onenergy and environmental policy: He rejected the permit for 
     the Dakota access pipeline, exempted wind farm companies 
     fromkilling eagles, abused the Antiquities Act to remove 
     western lands from economic development, and prohibited 
     federal offshoredrilling and mineral leases on millions of 
     acres across the country, including 115 million acres off the 
     coast ofAlaska.
       This flurry of regulatory activity is simply the latest in 
     a long line of overreaches from the Obama White House. 
     Theoutgoing president has consistently sought ways to enact 
     his agenda unilaterally over his two terms--notoriously 
     ``working aroundCongress'' in order to do so. A recent report 
     from the American Action Forum found that the Obama 
     administration issued 600major regulations totaling $743 
     billion over the course of his presidency. This is an average 
     of 81 majorregulations--regulations that exceed $100 million 
     by agency estimates--per year.
       Thankfully, the House of Representatives ispoised to hit 
     the ground running in slowing the growth of the regulatory 
     state. Representatives will consider two importantbills on 
     the floor as one of their first orders of business for the 
     year. Both bills, once passed by the Senate and signed 
     byfuture President Trump, will bring meaningful relief to the 
     American families and businesses across the country who 
     arecurrently drowning in red tape.
       The first bill, Rep. Darrell Issa's Midnight Rule Relief 
     Act, is particularly important giventhe onslaught of 
     regulations coming from the White House and the scarcity of 
     available floor time in Congress. It would allowCongress to 
     disapprove of multiple so-called ``midnight rules''--
     regulations finalized in the waning days of 
     theadministration--using a single Congressional Review Act 
     (CRA) resolution, as opposed to disapproving of these rules 
     individually.This change will make it easier for Congress to 
     disapprove of the Obama administration's recent spate of 
     economically dangerousactions.
       The second bill, the Regulations from the Executive in Need 
     of Scrutiny (REINS) Act, is also important. This wouldrequire 
     executive agencies to submit ``major'' rules--those with an 
     annual economic impact of $100 million or more--to 
     Congressfor review and a clear up-or-down vote before the 
     rules take effect. This would assert Congress's proper role 
     in approving therules that govern the country, an authority 
     which has been increasingly delegated to executive agencies. 
     It would also encouragemore debate among lawmakers about the 
     size and scope of the federal government. Incoming Sen. Todd 
     Young championed thisimportant legislation during his time in 
     the House; it's good to see Rep. Doug Collins introduce it in 
     this newCongress.
       Both of these bills received bipartisan support in past 
     Congresses; they may enjoy even more in this current 
     one.Strange bedfellows could emerge in anticipation of the 
     Trump presidency. Democrats in Congress who want to limit the 
     ability ofa Republican White House to enact new rules, as 
     well as Republicans who principally support limiting the size 
     and scope ofgovernment.
       Americans across the county voted for President-elect 
     Donald Trump and a Republican majority in Congress 
     becausethey are tired of President Obama's harmful regulatory 
     agenda. It's little surprise that President-elect Donald 
     Trump swept rustbelt states and the upper Midwest in the 
     recent election--these parts of the country have been 
     devastated by President Obama'sregulatory overreach, and they 
     stood to lose even further under the threats of a Hillary 
     Clinton administration.
       Congress isright to reverse President Obama's regulatory 
     assault on job creation and economic growth in this county, 
     and it should workclosely with President-elect Trump in 
     peeling it back. Representatives should support the two 
     regulatory reform bills when theycome up on the floor this 
     week, and they should seek additional efforts to overturn 
     these myriad rules, including futureCongressional Review Act 
     resolutions of disapproval and adding appropriations riders 
     that would prohibit funding forimplementation of the worst 
     rules, while executive agencies promulgate new rules to 
     eliminate them.
       Doing so will send astrong message that lawmakers are 
     willing to stand up to the executive overreach of the past 
     eight years.

  Mr. ISSA. Mr. Speaker, the fact is we are hearing many people talk 
about importantregulations and of their somehow being taken out. Let's 
understand that regulations can go both ways. These changes and 
theunderlying law can also protect the other way. The fact is now we 
are in the future. You could have an administration that, inits final 
days, changes regulations to make them more lenient to large 
businesses, more lenient to polluters, more lenient tothe employers to 
the detriment of their employees. Regulations can go both ways, and 
only the most extreme regulations--literallyone since the enactment of 
the underlying legislation--has ever been repealed.
  I don't want to belittle my own legislation,but let's understand that 
there won't be 61 en bloc being brought. There will be some, I hope, 
and there may be more than one.Yet for Congress to take back, piece by 
piece, its responsibility and then live up to that responsibility 
should be all of ourgoals.
  Now, this legislation was limited to midnight rules. Let's understand 
that midnight rules are the rules done in thewaning days of an 
administration--7-plus years into this administration--and many of 
these rules, in fact, were enacted after thelast vote of the people. I 
think it is important to understand that, on election day, the American 
people delivered a resoundingmessage to Washington: stop the 
regulatory, Big Government onslaught that is killing jobs.
  One of my colleagues earlierspoke of the fact that we had had so many 
jobs--15 million jobs--created in the last 8 years. The percentage of 
the workforce thatis working in America today is the smallest in my 
lifetime. It is smaller than it was 8 years ago, 16 years ago, or 21 
yearsago. We are not creating jobs at the rate of our population. We 
should not have some sort of an accolade for regulations havingcreated 
a great economy if, in fact, that economy has grown less than 2 percent 
a year and has not kept up with any historic 8-year period. To me, that 
is an important part. Although the discussion I just had was about more 
than regulations, let'sunderstand that the growth of regulations--of 
lawmaking--is certainly not the creator of jobs.
  I think, when we look at thecost--and that is a lot of what we are 
dealing with in the manager's amendment in this bill--we are dealing 
with the recognitionthat we are looking at regulations in light of how 
much they cost. Now, that cost is based on independent scoring. It is 
not theadministration's scoring and it is not my scoring. It is that of 
the Congressional Budget Office's, an independent agency thatdoesn't 
always give a score I want, but the score is not arrived through 
partisan activities.
  I reach out again to theMembers who may not yet know that what we are 
asking is simply to assert our normal ability in Congress and put 
together one ormore ideas for the efficiency of the body, to send it 
from here to the Senate, and from the Senate to the President. What we 
areproposing in this legislation as a small change to the underlying 
legislation that has been with us for three Presidents is, infact, 
consistent with this body's doing its job, in regular order, in the 
clear light of day.
  I think the important messagefor this piece of bipartisan legislation 
is: we are taking back a limited amount of our capability, trying to 
streamline it, andgiving the President an opportunity to accept or 
reject a piece of legislation voted on by a majority of the House and 
amajority of the Senate before it gets to the President. The President, 
if he feels we have included even one regulationinappropriately that he 
would like to retain, would veto our bill.
  Lastly, I beg everyone to look at this for what it is,not for what 
others say it is, because it is simply Congress doing its job in an 
efficient fashion and consistent with 20-plusyears of history and with 
there being only one piece--one time--when a regulation was withdrawn. 
No President since that time hastried to produce or has asked Congress 
to pass a law so as to put into effect a regulation that, on a 
bipartisan basis, theHouse, the Senate, and a President thought should 
go. I urge the support for this bill.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back thebalance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time for debate has expired.
  Pursuant to section5(b) of House Resolution 5, the previous question 
is ordered on the bill.
  The question is on the engrossment and thirdreading of the bill.

[[Page H84]]

  The bill was ordered to be engrossed and read a third time, and was 
read the third time.


                           Motion to Recommit

  Ms. CASTOR of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I havea motion to recommit at the 
desk.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the gentlewoman opposed to the bill?
  Ms. CASTOR of Florida. I am opposed.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Clerk will report the motion to 
recommit.
  The Clerk read as follows:
       Ms. CASTOR of Florida moves to recommit the bill H.R. 21 to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary with instructions toreport the 
     same back to the House forthwith with the following 
     amendment:

       Add, at the end of the bill, thefollowing:

     SEC. 3. EXCEPTION FOR CERTAIN RULES THAT PROHIBIT 
                   DISCRIMINATION BY INSURANCEISSUERS ON THE BASIS 
                   OF GENDER OR PREEXISTING CONDITION OR THAT MAKE 
                   HEALTHCARE MORE AFFORDABLE FOR 
                   WORKINGAMERICANS.

       Nothing in this Act, or the amendments made by this Act, 
     shall apply in the case of any rule that pertains to 
     theprevention of--
       (1) discrimination by health insurance issuers and group 
     health plans on the basis of preexisting conditionsor gender, 
     including in the form of higher premiums for women or loss of 
     benefits such as mammograms, cervical cancerscreenings, 
     prenatal care, and commonly prescribed contraception; or
       (2) higher premiums or out-of-pocket costs for seniorsfor 
     prescription drugs under prescription drug plans under the 
     Medicare program under part D of title XVIII of the 
     SocialSecurity Act (42 2 U.S.C. 1395w-101 et seq.).

  Mr. ISSA(during the reading). Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to 
dispense with the reading.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is thereobjection to the request of the 
gentleman from California?
  There was no objection.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant tothe rule, the gentlewoman from 
Florida is recognized for 5 minutes in support of her motion.
  Ms.CASTOR of Florida. Mr. Speaker, this is the final amendment to the 
bill, which will not kill the bill or send it back tocommittee. If 
adopted, the bill will immediately proceed to final passage, as 
amended.
  My amendment provides an importantsafeguard for the economic security 
of American families by maintaining the consumer-friendly protections 
in the Affordable CareAct for, one, the cost-saving provisions in 
Medicare of lower prescription drugs for our parents and our 
grandparents; and, two,the vital consumer protection that prohibits 
insurance companies from denying coverage because someone has a 
preexistingcondition like cancer, asthma, or diabetes.
  The Affordable Care Act, which Republicans say they want to repeal 
without areplacement bill in sight, provided these very important 
consumer protections for all Americans not just for the 20 
millionAmericans who gained health insurance through the marketplace or 
HealthCare.gov, but for the vast majority of Americans who arecovered 
through Medicare, which is about 43 million Americans, and for the 
folks who have health insurance through their jobs,which is about 155 
million Americans.

                              {time}  1445

  Here is what the Affordable CareAct has done for those folks: One, 
Medicare is stronger. The Affordable Care Act strengthened the Medicare 
fund, extending itslife by over a decade. In addition, Medicare 
enrollees have benefited from huge savings in prescription drug costs. 
They havealso saved through preventative screenings for breast and 
colorectal cancer, cardiovascular disease, and diabetes; that whenthey 
go to the doctor's office now, there is no cost, there is no charge. 
That is the Affordable Care Act.
  So if Republicansaren't careful in their zeal to repeal the 
Affordable Care Act, they, in essence, will be asking our parents and 
grandparents topay more, a whole lot more for their prescription drugs.
  Let me get a little local here. I represent the State of Floridawhere 
about 18 percent of Floridians rely on Medicare for their health care. 
Because of the Affordable Care Act, it has startedto close the doughnut 
hole. Repeal it now and that stops. That goes away. Just in 2015 alone, 
350,000 Florida seniors saved $351million on their prescription drugs. 
That is an average of about $1,000 per beneficiary. So my amendment 
makes the point thatDemocrats are going to fight for our older 
neighbors to keep those savings intact, brought to you by the 
Affordable Care Act.
  Second, we also want to put everyone on notice that Democrats intend 
to fight tooth and nail to keep the vital consumerprotection, one of 
the bedrocks of the Affordable Care Act, that bars health insurance 
companies from refusing to cover you orcharge you more because you have 
a preexisting condition or charge women more than men.
  Whether you know it or not, allAmericans have benefited from the bar 
on discrimination from preexisting conditions since January 1, 2014. So 
if you have healthinsurance through your employer, you have benefited 
from the Affordable Care Act. If you have gone to healthcare.gov 
because youare a student, part-time worker, or you don't have it 
through your job, you have benefited. If you have health insurance 
foryour children through the Children's Health Insurance Program or 
Medicaid, you are no longer subject to discrimination.
  Remember a few years ago when insurance companies maintained a long 
list of conditions where they said, if you have canceror diabetes or 
something, you are automatically excluded, that is the way things 
worked. A congressional investigation into thispractice during the 
healthcare reform debate uncovered more than 400 medical diagnoses or 
conditions that insurance used tojustify coverage denial. At the top of 
the list were cancer, heart disease, pregnancy, diabetes, HIV/AIDS, 
multiple sclerosis,and muscular dystrophy.
  You know what? Generally, States with the highest rates of denial 
were in the South and the Midwestwhere the overall health status of 
residents has consistently been worse than in other parts of the 
country. The incidence ofcancer, heart disease, and diabetes is higher 
in those States.
  Well, now you cannot be discriminated against for thosepreexisting 
conditions. That kind of discrimination wasn't right. It had no place 
in America, so we outlawed it in theAffordable Care Act. Like one of my 
neighbors, Christine Roper in Tampa--Christine is 26. She recently aged 
off her father'sinsurance and was unsure how to find coverage because 
she has a heart condition and asthma. Before, she would have 
beenprohibited from getting health insurance, but not today. And we are 
not going backwards. That is because millions of Americanswho can now 
buy coverage would be forced back into the ranks of the uninsured.
  We are going to start this Congress off bystanding up for our 
families and rejecting any attempts to repeal and replace the 
Affordable Care Act.
  I urge a ``yes'' voteon my motion, and I yield back the balance of my 
time.
  Mr. ISSA. Mr. Speaker, I rise in oppositionto the motion to recommit.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman from California is recognized 
for 5 minutes.
  Mr. ISSA. Mr. Speaker, I remember Chairman Ed Towns who used to say 
when someone ran on: Thegentleman's time has long expired. I think we 
might have that situation here, but I am going to give the gentlewoman 
fromFlorida a moment more in just a moment.
  The motion to recommit specifically sends it back to the committee. 
That is notnecessary. The fact is that if she wanted these changes and 
wanted them enacted immediately there is a procedure to do so.
  So I rise in opposition because this is certainly something that 
would delay, would send this back to committee, and causeit to come 
back again.
  I will yield to the gentlewoman from Florida (Ms. Castor) for a 
question, if she wouldn't mind:Is there a regulation in those 61 that 
would be affected by this that would affect any of the provisions that 
you cited in youramendment?
  Ms. CASTOR of Florida. Well, according to the Midnight Rules Relief 
Act, the publicreally won't know, and that is the point.
  Mr. ISSA. Mr. Speaker, would the gentlewoman answer thequestion. Is 
there 61, according to the ranking member, pieces of regulation that

[[Page H85]]

could be in the window? I just wonderedif you had one regulation by the 
Obama administration that concerned any of these issues that you had in 
the act.
  Ms. CASTOR of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for 
yielding.
  In fact, there areextensive regulations listed as major rules 
relating to Medicare because part of what we did in the Affordable Care 
Act was tobegin to change Medicare from a volume-based system to a 
value-based system.

  Major Rules Issued by the Obama Administration That Are Potentially 
Eligible for DisapprovalUnder the Congressional Review Act in the 115th 
                                Congress


        Major Rules Listed on GAO's WebsiteAs of January 3, 2017

       Title of Rule (As Published in Federal Register) and RIN 
     Number are asfollows:
       Exemptions To Facilitate Intrastate and Regional Securities 
     Offerings 3235-AL80; Investment Company Liquidity 
     RiskManagement Programs, 3235-AL61; Retention of EB-1, EB-2, 
     and EB-3 Immigrant Workers and Program Improvements 
     AffectingHigh Skilled Nonimmigrant Workers, 1615-ACO5; 
     Walking-Working Surfaces and Personal Protective Equipment 
     (Fall ProtectionSystems), 1216-AB80; Waste Prevention, 
     Production Subject to Royalties, and Resource Conservation, 
     1004-AE14; Investment CompanySwing Pricing, 3235-AL61; 
     Establishing a More Effective Fair Market Rent System; Using 
     Small Area Fair Market Rents in theHousing Choice Voucher 
     Program Instead of the Current 50th Percentile FMRs, 2501-
     AD74; Medicare Program; Revisions to PaymentPolicies Under 
     the Physician Fee Schedule and Other Revisions to Part B for 
     CY 2017; Medicare Advantage Bid Pricing DataRelease; Medicare 
     Advantage and Part D Medical Loss Ratio Data Release; 
     Medicare Advantage Provider Network Requirements;Expansion of 
     Medicare Diabetes Prevention Program Model; Medicare Shared 
     Savings Program Requirements, 0938-AS81.
       MedicareProgram; CY 2017 Inpatient Hospital Deductible and 
     Hospital and Extended Care Services Coinsurance Amounts, 
     0938-AS70; MedicareProgram; Medicare Part B Monthly Actuarial 
     Rates, Premium Rate, and Annual Deductible Beginning January 
     1, 2017, 0938-AS72;Hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment 
     and Ambulatory Surgical Center Payment Systems and Quality 
     Reporting Programs; OrganProcurement Organization Reporting 
     and Communication; Transplant Outcome Measures and 
     Documentation Requirements; ElectronicHealth Record (EHR) 
     Incentive Programs; Payment to Nonexcepted Off-Campus 
     Provider-Based Department of a Hospital; HospitalValue-Based 
     Purchasing (VBP) Program; Establishment of Payment Rates 
     Under the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule for 
     NonexceptedItems and Services Furnished by an Off-Campus 
     Provider-Based Department of a Hospital, 0938-AS82; Medicare 
     Program; Merit-BasedIncentive Payment System (MIPS) and 
     Alternative Payment Model (APM) Incentive Under the Physician 
     Fee Schedule, and Criteria forPhysician-Focused Payment 
     Models, 0938-AS69; Medicare and Medicaid Programs; CY 2017 
     Home Health Prospective Payment System RateUpdate; Home 
     Health Value-Based Purchasing Model; and Home Health Quality 
     Reporting Requirements, 0938-AS80; Student AssistanceGeneral 
     Provisions, Federal Perkins Loan Program, Federal Family 
     Education Loan Program, William D. Ford Federal Direct 
     LoanProgram, and Teacher Education Assistance for College and 
     Higher Education Grant Program, 1840-AD19; Energy 
     ConservationProgram, Energy Conservation Standards for 
     Miscellaneous Refrigeration Products, 1904-AC51.
       Medicaid Program; Final FY 2014 and Preliminary FY 2016 
     Disproportionate Share Hospital, Allotments, and Final FY 
     2014and Preliminary FY 2016 Institutions for Mental Diseases, 
     Disproportionate Share Hospital Limits, 0938-ZB30; Cross-
     State AirPollution Rule Update For The 2008 Ozone NAAQS, 
     2060-AS05; Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Fuel Efficiency 
     Standards for Medium-andHeavy-Duty Engines and vehicles--
     Phase 2, 2060-AS16; U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
     Fee Schedule, 1615-AC09; Treatmentof Certain Interests in 
     Corporations as Stock or Indebtedness, 1545-BN40; 
     Establishment of the Electronic Visa Update System(EVUS), 
     1651-AB08; ONC Health IT Certification Program: Enhanced 
     Oversight and Accountability, 0955-AA00; Cleaning 
     RequirementDetermination Under Section 2(H) Of The Commodity 
     Exchange Act For Interest Rate Swaps, 3038-AE20; Standards 
     For CoveredClearing Agencies, 3235-AL48.
       Medicare And Medicaid Programs; Reform Of Requirements For 
     Long-Term Care Facilities, 0938-AR61; Child Care And 
     Development Fund (CCDF) Program, 0970-AC67; Establishing Paid 
     Sick Leave For Federal Contractors, 1235-AAI3; OCC Guidelines 
     Establishing Standards For Recovery Planning By Certain Large 
     Insured National Banks, Insured FederalSavings Associations, 
     And Insured Federal Branches; Technical Amendments, 1557-
     AD96; Emergency Preparedness Requirements ForMedicare And 
     Medicaid Participating Providers And Suppliers, 0938-A091; 
     Migratory Bird Hunting Regulations On Certain FederalIndian 
     Reservations And Ceded Lands For The 2016-17 Season, 1018-
     BA70; Safety And Effectiveness Of Consumer 
     Antiseptics;Topical Antimicrobial Drug Products For Over-The-
     Counter-Human Use, 0910-AF69; Head Start Performance 
     Standards, 0970-AC63;Standards Of Performance For Municipal 
     Solid Waste Landfills, 2060-AM08; Emission Guidelines And 
     Compliance Times For MunicipalSolid Waste Landfills, 2060-
     AS23.
       Federal Acquisition Regulation; Fair Pay And Safe 
     Workplaces, 9000-AM81; Medicare Program;Hospital Inpatient 
     Prospective Payment Systems For Acute Care Hospitals And The 
     Long-Term Care Hospital Prospective PaymentSystem & Policy 
     Changes & Fiscal Year 2017 Rates; Quality Reporting 
     Requirements For Specific Providers; Graduate 
     MedicalEducation; Hospital Notification Procedures Applicable 
     To Beneficiaries Receiving Observation Services; Technical 
     ChangesRelating To Costs To Organizations & Medicare Cost 
     Reports; Finalization Of Interim Final Rules With Comment 
     Period On LTCH PPSPayments For Severe Wounds, Modifications 
     Of Limitations On Redesignation By The Medicare Geographic 
     Classification ReviewBoard, & Extensions Of Payments To MDHS 
     And Low-Volume Hospitals, 0938-AS77; 0938-AS88; 0938-AS41; 
     Workforce Innovation AndOpportunity Act; Joint Rule For 
     Unified And Combined State Plans, Performance Accountability, 
     And The One-Stop System JointProvisions; Final Rule, 1205-
     AB74; Workforce Innovation And Opportunity Act, 1205-AB73; 
     Medicare Program; Prospective PaymentSystem And Consolidated 
     Billing For Skilled Nursing Facilities For FY 2017, SNF 
     Value-Based Purchasing Program, SNF QualityReporting Program, 
     And SNF Payment Models Research, 0938-AS75.
       Medicare Program; Inpatient Rehabilitation 
     FacilityProspective Payment System For Federal Fiscal Year 
     2017, 0938-AS78; Medicare Program; FF 2017 Hospice Wage Index 
     And PaymentRate Update And Hospice Quality Reporting 
     Requirements, 0938-AS79; Margin And Capital Requirements For 
     Covered Swap Entities,3052-AC69; Medicare Program; FY 2017 
     Inpatient Psychiatric Facilities Prospective Payment System--
     Rate Update, 0938-AS76;National School Lunch Program And 
     School Breakfast Program: Nutrition Standards For All Foods 
     Sold In School As Required By TheHealthy, Hunger-Free Kids 
     Act Of 2010, 0584-AE09; Revised Critical Infrastructure 
     Protection Reliability Standards, No RINprovided; Amendments 
     To The Commission's Rules Of Practice, 3235-AL87; Disclosure 
     Of Payments By Resource Extraction Issuers,3235-AL53; 
     Migratory Bird Hunting; Seasons And Bag And Possession Limits 
     For Certain Migratory Game Birds, 1018-BA70; Oil andGas And 
     Sulfur Operations On The Outer Continental Shelf--
     Requirements For Exploratory Drilling On The Arctic Outer 
     ContinentalShelf, 1082-AA00.
       Medication Assisted Treatment For Opioid Use Disorders, 
     0930-AA22; Department Of Labor Federal CivilPenalties 
     Inflation Adjustment Act Catch-Up Adjustments, 1290-AA31; 
     General Administrative Regulations; Catastrophic 
     RiskProtection Endorsement; Area Risk Protection Insurance 
     Regulations; And The Common Crop Insurance Regulations, Basic 
     Provisions,0563-AC49; Transition Assistance Program (TAP) For 
     Military Personnel, 0790-AJ17; Operation And Certification Of 
     Small UnmannedAircraft Systems, 2120-AJ60; Transit Asset 
     Management; National Transit Database; FTA-2014-0020, 2132-
     AB07; Revision Of FeeSchedules; Fee Recovery For Fiscal Year 
     2016, 3150-AJ66; Medicare Program; Medicare Clinical 
     Diagnostic Laboratory Tests PaymentSystem, 0938-AS33; Jams 
     Zadroga 9/11 Victim Compensation Fund Reauthorization Act, 
     1105-AB49; Energy Conservation Program:Energy Conservation 
     Standards For Battery Chargers, Energy Conservation Program: 
     Energy Conservation Standards ForDehumidifiers, 1904-AC81; 
     Removal Of Mandatory Country Of Origin Labeling Requirements 
     For Beef And Pork Muscle Cuts, GroundBeef, And Ground Pork, 
     0581-AD29.

  Mr. ISSA. Mr. Speaker, reclaiming mytime, I would ask that the 
gentlewoman, if there are some, place them in the Record. I don't know 
of any in the 61 thatwere granted, let's say, after June.
  What I will say is that the reason I will be voting and urging my 
colleagues to vote``no'' on the motion to recommit is not the 
regulations that she alludes to but, in fact, the fact that this would 
kill the billby sending it back and having it delayed further.
  So, in order to pass it today, because she did not set it up to 
excludethese items and have them immediately considered, I cannot 
support her motion to recommit.
  What I will say is that when welook at regulations to put into a 
package that may be a package of one or a package, if this passes, of 
more than one, Icertainly will expect that those regulations will have 
to do with things which could have been done sooner, would have been 
donesooner, and were done in the waning days of the administration for 
no reason that was time sensitive.
  The Affordable CareAct was passed in the first days of the 
administration. If there is something in the last days of the 
administration that hasmerit, I certainly would urge my colleagues not

[[Page H86]]

to rescind that regulation. But if there is something that should have 
beendone in year one, two, three, four, five, or six, I would ask why 
it wasn't done then.
  Having said that, it is unfortunatethat this motion to recommit was 
written in a way that would send it back to committee and, thus, cause 
a substantial delay.
  I would caution my colleagues that, at least from this Member, if you 
have a motion to recommit and you want the amendmentitself considered, 
make it one that is immediate and not back to committee. The 
difference, I think, is important. TheParliamentarian simply can advise 
on how to write one that would prevent it having to get, if you will, 
another delay of days orweeks.
  I urge opposition to the motion to recommit.
  I yield back the balance of my time.
  TheSPEAKER pro tempore. Without objection, the previous question is 
ordered on the motion to recommit.
  There was no objection.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion to recommit.
  The question was taken; and the Speaker pro temporeannounced that the 
noes appeared to have it.
  Ms. CASTOR of Florida. Mr. Speaker, on that I demandthe yeas and 
nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, 
furtherproceedings on this question will be postponed.

                          ____________________



