

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 12 (Monday, January 23, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 12 (Monday, January 23, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S386-S387]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 REMEMBERING ROBERT L. ``BOB'' WILLIAMS

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, today I wish to pay tribute to a good 
friend and a true Kentucky hero, Robert L. ``Bob'' Williams. Bob, a 
northern Kentucky native, passed away in December at the age of 94. He 
left behind many loved ones, including his wife, Barbara, but he also 
left his mark on our Nation and the Commonwealth.
  As a member of the Greatest Generation, Bob answered the call of duty 
and bravely served in World War II. On June 6, 1944, he was one of the 
first Allied paratroopers to land during the D-day invasion. With his 
fellow soldiers, Bob fought well behind enemy lines before the beach 
battle began. His mission to secure roads and bridges was vital to the 
success of the entire operation.
  With uncommon courage, Bob and his comrades completed their dangerous 
mission, overcoming enemy fire and capturing the crucial junctures. 
Once the invasion began, they continued their fight joining the largest 
amphibious assault in world history. Without faltering, Bob heroically 
battled for 10 more days, before suffering a serious injury on June 16, 
1944.
  It is without question that Bob's actions during the war displayed 
the highest possible valor. But his actions after the war proved his 
dedication to those who lost their lives on the battlefield. He spent 
his life after the War commemorating those who served in any way 
possible. If there was a parade to march in, you can be sure that Bob 
marched in it. To remember the 50th anniversary of the D-day invasion, 
Bob joined other veterans and parachuted into Normandy again. In an 
interview with the Lexington Herald-Leader, Bob remembered ``[t]he 
government said, `There's no way we're going to let you do that, you're 
all too old.' [. . .] We did it anyway.''
  The following week, TIME magazine published a double-page, full color 
picture of Bob. Triumphantly walking away from his 1994 jump with 
dozens of parachutes still gliding behind him, Bob looked overjoyed. He 
was paying tribute to his comrades, those with him on that day and 
those who were not.
  To further honor those with whom he served, Bob wrote a book to share 
veterans' stories of the war for future generations. He has impacted 
countless lives and is someone I very much respect and admire.
  In 2013, it was my privilege to recommend Bob for admission to the 
Kentucky Veterans Hall of Fame. This honor was a recognition of 
something I already knew well: Bob exemplifies the highest American 
values of service, self-sacrifice, and heroism.
  Bob's family represents the greatest of Kentucky values with 
kindness, compassion, and charity. It was easy to see the love between 
Bob and his wife, Barbara, and they raised wonderful children in 
Barbara, Diane, Jeffrey, Kim, and Kevin. Although they endure the pain 
of loss, I know they are comforted in the memory of Bob's deep love for 
all of them.
  My wife, Elaine, and I were deeply saddened to hear the news of Bob's

[[Page S387]]

passing. He lived an admirable life with courage and devotion, and I am 
proud to say he was my friend.

                          ____________________



