

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 24 (Friday, February 10, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 24 (Friday, February 10, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1091]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 203

  At the request of Mr. Burr, the name of the Senator from Arizona (Mr. 
Flake) was added as a cosponsor of S. 203, a bill to reaffirm that the 
Environmental Protection Agency may not regulate vehicles used solely 
for competition, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 253

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from Iowa (Mr. 
Grassley), the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) and the Senator 
from Maine (Mr. King) were added as cosponsors of S. 253, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to repeal the Medicare 
outpatient rehabilitation therapy caps.


                                 S. 265

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 265, a bill to 
prevent conflicts of interest that stem from executive Government 
employees receiving bonuses or other compensation arrangements from 
nongovernment sources, from the revolving door that raises concerns 
about the independence of financial services regulators, and from the 
revolving door that casts aspersions over the awarding of Government 
contracts and other financial benefits.


                                 S. 315

  At the request of Mr. Sullivan, the name of the Senator from Texas 
(Mr. Cornyn) was added as a cosponsor of S. 315, a bill to direct the 
Secretary of the Army to place in Arlington National Cemetery a 
monument honoring the helicopter pilots and crewmembers who were killed 
while serving on active duty in the Armed Forces during the Vietnam 
era, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 344

  At the request of Mrs. Fischer, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of S. 344, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide a credit to employers who 
provide paid family and medical leave, and for other purposes.


                              S.J. RES. 14

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 14, a 
joint resolution providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 
8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Social 
Security Administration relating to Implementation of the NICS 
Improvement Amendments Act of 2007.

                          ____________________



