

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 49 (Tuesday, March 21, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 49 (Tuesday, March 21, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1884]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW ACT RESOLUTION

  Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I want to mention that I am very 
gratified by my colleagues--by the way, on both sides of the aisle. It 
was a bipartisan vote. H.J. Res. 69, as the Presiding Officer just 
mentioned, has passed the Senate and will soon be going to the White 
House for a signature by President Trump. That is a resolution--now a 
law--that will be heading to the White House. It is not just important 
for Alaska, but, as the Presiding Officer and I were talking about, for 
any American who believes in federalism, State control over our land, 
and the Tenth Amendment. That is what was at stake.
  For my State a lot more was at stake--subsistence rights, the ability 
to continue to hunt in the ways that we have been doing for generations 
in Alaska. So I just want to thank all the Alaskans--hundreds--
including the State of Alaska Board of Game, the Alaska Department of 
Fish and Game, our Governor and his attorney general, who filed suit 
against the Federal Government over this issue. Obviously, it is all 
going to be resolved right now, right here, because of this vote.
  I want to thank all the Alaskans who played such an important role, 
the groups that I talked about in my remarks outside of Alaska that 
represent millions of Americans--the conservationists, the people who 
love the outdoors, and hunters who also weighed in and in a very 
powerful way to make sure that this resolution passed. So I want to 
thank them all.

                          ____________________



