

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 13 (Tuesday, January 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 13 (Tuesday, January 24, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S437-S438]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       TRIBUTE TO THOMAS D. HOMAN

  Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. Speaker, today I want to recognize Thomas D. Homan, 
who will step down this month as U.S. Immigration and Customs 
Enforcement Executive Associate Director for Enforcement and Removal 
Operations. Mr. Homan has served in law enforcement for 36 years, 
including 33 years enforcing our Nation's border and immigration laws. 
He began his career in 1981 as a police officer in New York. In 1984, 
he became a U.S. Border Patrol agent with his first assignment in the 
San Diego sector. In 1988, he became a special agent with the former 
U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service in Phoenix, AZ. There, he 
climbed through the ranks, first to supervisory special agent, and 
later to deputy assistant director for investigations.

[[Page S438]]

  In 1999, Mr. Homan became the assistant district director for 
investigations in San Antonio, TX. Upon the creation of ICE in 2003, 
Mr. Homan was named as the assistant special agent in charge in Dallas, 
TX. He was later promoted to deputy special agent in charge. In March 
2009, Mr. Homan accepted the position of Assistant Director for 
Enforcement at ICE headquarters in Washington, DC. He was subsequently 
promoted to Deputy Executive Associate Director in 2010 and was again 
promoted in May 2013 to lead ICE Enforcement and Removal Operations as 
its Executive Associate Director.
  In December 2015, Mr. Homan was awarded the Presidential Rank Award 
for Distinguished Service. He has served this country for many years 
and has had a notable career in helping to protect the homeland.
  I ask that my colleagues join me in offering our appreciation for his 
service and congratulations on his retirement.

                          ____________________



