

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 58 (Tuesday, April 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 58 (Tuesday, April 4, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2421]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  REMEMBERING EDWARD ``NICK'' McMANUS

  Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, today I wish to pay tribute to fellow 
Iowan Judge Edward ``Nick'' McManus.
  Judge McManus died earlier this month at the age of 97.
  He has a long and deep history in Iowa politics and judicial 
activities.
  When I first entered the State legislature, Judge McManus was known 
as Lieutenant Governor McManus. He also served in the Iowa Senate.
  In 1962, President John F. Kennedy appointed him chief judge of the 
Northern District of Iowa where he served for 23 years when he took 
senior status. His ascension to this position made him the first 
native-born Iowan appointed to the Federal Northern District Court of 
Iowa. He remained on the bench for a total of 55 years and was still 
taking cases at the time of his death.
  He was proud of his service on the court and the modernization of the 
court he started in 1962.
  Upon Judge McManus's death, current acting U.S. Attorney Sean Berry 
told the Cedar Rapids Gazette, ``The changes implemented by Judge 
McManus left an indelible and positive impact on the efficient 
administration of justice for all litigants in the federal court.''
  He took great pride that the only time he had a backlog of cases was 
the first 100 that were there when he took the job. He took very 
seriously the Bill of Rights Sixth Amendment where it says ``the 
accused shall enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial.''
  His longtime assistant, Deb Frank, may have said it best, ``I know he 
loved to work. He loved what he was doing. I think it's just the whole 
idea of coming to the office every day and doing what needed to be 
done.''
  Barbara and I send our sincerest condolences to Judge McManus's five 
sons, two step-sons, other family members, and friends.
  He served our State and our country with great distinction and will 
be missed.

                          ____________________



