

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 55 (Wednesday, March 29, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 55 (Wednesday, March 29, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2549]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              HEALTH CARE IS NOT EASY, BUT IT IS ESSENTIAL

  (Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute.)
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, $880 billion cut from the insurance 
of hardworking, low-income families; $600 billion going to the top 1 
percent of the richest people in America. Those were the singular 
features of the TrumpCare bill: not caring for any one of you, but 
simply taking away and providing for the rich.
  Health care in my district and in America is very serious. I heard 
the testimony for many years of mothers who had autistic children or 
children with severe disorders, or visited nursing homes where elderly 
who had worked were there on Medicaid, or maybe heard the pleas of 
cancer survivors who would not have lived but for the Affordable Care 
Act and having insurance.
  This is nothing to play with. Any suggestion that health care is 
easy, Mr. Trump, or that we can get together with the moderates is not 
a direction to go. If you are serious, we are serious. But we are 
serious about people whose lives are in jeopardy, and we are serious 
about providing access and health care to all of America, including our 
rural hospitals and our children's hospitals, who beg for us not to 
pass TrumpCare.
  We are prepared to work on behalf of the American people. Health care 
is not easy, but it is essential, it is lifesaving. I want to be on the 
side of saving lives of all Americans. It is not easy and it is not 
something to fool around with.

                          ____________________



