

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 17 (Wednesday, February 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 17 (Wednesday, February 1, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S591]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       TRIBUTE TO LAYNE BANGERTER

  Mr. CRAPO. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize the outstanding 
work of a longtime member of my Senate staff, Layne Bangerter, who has 
been appointed as special assistant to President Donald Trump.
  Layne has been a valued member of my staff for more than 13 years. 
Serving as director of agriculture and natural resources, he has 
provided sound counsel on critical issues for our State. For example, 
Layne dedicated countless hours to crafting the Owyhee Public Land 
Management Act and has worked to ensure sound implementation of the 
agreement. His well-honed ability to build relationships has been key 
to the success of this and many other efforts.
  As a rancher and farmer, Layne has unique on-the-ground experience 
with how Federal policies affect land, water, and people. He also has 
significant understanding from his work for the U.S. Department of 
Agriculture Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service Wildlife 
Services and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. He has used this 
experience to inform a number of critical agricultural and natural 
resources issues, including wildlife, conservation, forestry, water, 
and agricultural programs. He knows the right balance needs to be 
struck between conservation and responsible natural resources practices 
and that the one-size-fits-all approach never works in real America. 
Layne is the kind of guy that you want in your corner--he listens, uses 
common sense, and then works to come up with the best possible 
solutions.
  Layne is positive, encouraging, and affable while also having a 
pragmatism shaped by extensive experience. His insight will no doubt be 
extremely valuable to the Trump administration. While I will miss 
having Layne as a member of my staff, I wish him all the best in this 
new endeavor and look forward to our continued friendship. Thank you, 
Layne, for your hard work on behalf of Idahoans and our country, and 
congratulations on this next step in your career. I wish you, Betsy, 
and your wonderful family continued success.

                          ____________________



