

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S45-S46]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    TRIBUTE TO ROBERT L. HENDRICKSON

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, today I wish to celebrate a 
distinguished Kentuckian and a friend. Robert L. Hendricksonhas been 
the Publisher of the Ledger Independent in Maysville, KY, since 1993. 
When Bob announced that he would retire at theend of last year, I knew 
that the paper was not only losing a great journalist, but it also was 
losing a great man.
  Bob graduated from the University of Georgia's Henry Grady School of 
Journalism. Afterward, he moved back to Kentucky towork on his dad's 
dairy farm. However, a pair of harsh winters in 1977 and 1978 convinced 
him, in his own words, ``to put myjournalism degree to work.'' He got 
hired by the Ledger Independent and has served his community ever 
since.
  The Ledger Independent newspaper serves seven counties in northern 
Kentucky and southern Ohio. Through a series of ownersand publishers, 
the paper continues a 150-year tradition of a local, independent, daily 
newspaper in Maysville.
  Bob became editor of the paper in 1985, calling it ``the best job in 
the world.'' In 1993, he was promoted to publisher. Heoversaw the 
entire operation and guided the paper into the internet age with the 
unveiling of Maysville Online. While workingfull time at the paper, Bob 
also did postgraduate work at Northwestern University.
  Bob and Missy Mann have never stopped working for their neighbors. 
Bob further dedicates himself to his community, boththrough his service 
on the board of directors of the Maysville Chamber of Commerce, and as 
the moderator of several importantpolitical debates in his area.
  Bob is a great man and a pillar of his community, and I am honored to 
call him a friend. I wish him and Missy well inretirement, and I join 
with countless Kentuckians on thanking him for his service to 
Maysville.

[[Page S46]]

  

                          ____________________



