

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 6 (Tuesday, January 10, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 6 (Tuesday, January 10, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H240-H241]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          TRIBUTE TO DEAN BORG

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Iowa 
(Mr. Young) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. YOUNG of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor veteran Iowa 
journalist Dean Borg and to offer my congratulations on his upcoming 
retirement from Iowa Public Television's ``Iowa Press.''
  Dean Borg is a leader in Iowa, in our community, and his 
contributions to over four decades of ``Iowa Press'' are unparalleled. 
His presence on Iowa Public Television's respected weekly news program 
will surely be missed.
  A native of Forest City, Borg attended Iowa State University and 
began his journalism career at WOI Radio while still a student. Earning 
degrees in journalism and public education from Iowa State University 
and the University of Iowa, Borg served as a reporter and later as news 
director for WMT Radio and WMT Television stations in Cedar Rapids. His 
career path is an example of how Iowa hard work, talent, and dedication 
can set you on the path to achieving remarkable successes in life.
  Dean Borg's first appearance on ``Iowa Press'' took place on January 
16, 1972, during the program's fourth episode, as a panelist, while 
still working for WMT News. The other panelists who joined him that day 
were Iowa State Representative Frank Bowers, a Democrat from Orange 
City, and John McCormally, of the Burlington Hawk Eye newspaper. Borg 
later went on to host the television program for decades, providing the 
insightful commentary and leadership of discussions with numerous 
guests from around the State and country.
  Borg's commitment to Iowa Public Television, work moderating 
nationally broadcast Presidential debates and beyond, has set the bar 
high for aspiring journalists in Iowa and across the country.
  From his contributions to the show's decades of broadcasts to his 
documentary reporting from around the world, Dean Borg has spent a 
career dedicated to providing folks with national and statewide news. 
With this type of commitment, it is not surprising Borg has interviewed 
every President since Lyndon B. Johnson and many of the Presidential 
contenders who travel through our first-in-the-Nation State.
  I can attest to Dean Borg's dedication to his craft personally, as I 
have had the honor of getting to know him--I have been on the ``Iowa 
Press'' show with him--as a Member of Congress and throughout my career 
working for the people of Iowa.
  He is the longest serving program host in Iowa Public Television 
history, a significant feat. He is an award-winning journalist, an Iowa 
State distinguished alumnus, and a trailblazer in

[[Page H241]]

Iowa journalism, defending the craft and defending journalists.
  While Dean will officially retire from ``Iowa Press'' this month, I 
look forward to his return for special occasions and live broadcasts.
  Dean is the epitome of Iowa nice: a humble, but bold Iowan putting 
the interests of his fellow Iowans over himself, dedicated to truth, to 
his craft, and dedicated to service, dedicated to his fellow Iowans. 
Dean is a very good and true man.
  Mr. Speaker, please join me in congratulating Dean Borg on his 
distinguished career and wishing him the best in his retirement.
  Dean, I will miss you. If I don't see you soon, I will see you at the 
Iowa State Fair.

                          ____________________



