

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 59 (Wednesday, April 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 59 (Wednesday, April 5, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2707]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        HONORING ELBERT BENNETT

  (Mr. COMER asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.)
  Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, today I would like to recognize Mr. Elbert 
Bennett for his service as president of the Kentucky Magistrates and 
Commissioners Association board of directors. Elbert, one of nine 
children, was born in Princeton, Kentucky. After graduating Caldwell 
County High School in 1967, he began working at The Times Leader 
newspaper in Caldwell County. He has accomplished much since starting 
at that newspaper.
  Elbert held office in the Kentucky Young Farmers Association and was 
elected magistrate in 2002. Prior to this election, Elbert served 20 
years on the Fredonia City Council. Elbert has been a lifelong cattle 
farmer, is the former president of the Fredonia Lions Club, and is an 
active member of the Cattlemen's Association.
  Most recently, Elbert has given his time to the Wounded Warrior 
Project, cooking barbecue and hosting veterans on his farms. Elbert is 
widely known and respected as a barbecue cook, cooking for thousands at 
church events, Lions Club events and children's events.
  In 2008, Elbert Bennett's peers elected him to the Kentucky 
Magistrates and Commissioners Association board of directors. He has 
held every office inside the State association, including sergeant-at-
arms, secretary, treasurer, vice president, and president.
  While president of KMCA, the association has had many legislative 
victories, including stabilizing essential 911 resources for cities and 
counties in Kentucky. One of Elbert's most notable accomplishments as 
president of KMCA is the association's annual children's shoe drive, 
which donates over 600 pairs of shoes annually to needy schoolchildren 
all across the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
  He was recently elected to the Kentucky Association of Counties 
executive board as second vice president, where he represents the 
magistrates and commissioners.
  I cannot speak highly enough about Elbert Bennett and how his service 
has positively influenced the First District and the Commonwealth of 
Kentucky as a whole. I am honored to recognize Elbert Bennett today and 
the great work he does for the people of our State.

                          ____________________



