

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 59 (Wednesday, April 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 59 (Wednesday, April 5, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2700-H2701]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     HONORING MRS. DOLORES WILLIAMS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
New York (Ms. Clarke) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. CLARKE of New York. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate the 
life of Mrs. Dolores S. Williams, a community matriarch.
  Her life was a true Brooklyn story. Born in Newport News, Virginia, 
on February 14, 1933, she came to New York City with her family as a 
young girl as part of the Northern migration from the South in search 
of opportunity.
  Growing up in Bedford-Stuyvesant Brooklyn, Dolores graduated from 
Thomas Jefferson High School and married Jacob A. Williams in 1951 and 
raised three children: Cheryl Elise, Jacob Conrad, and Celeste Elena.
  Dolores was a staunch believer in education and was actively involved 
in her children's school and with issues in her community.
  She also practiced what she preached. She returned to school and 
received a bachelor of arts in education from Brooklyn College at the 
age of 40. She found success as an educational sales representative for 
Random House publishing company, inspired by a desire to support the 
education of all children.
  Dolores returned to the classroom, earning a master of science degree 
in special education from Hunter College, which she used to pursue her 
passion by working with developmentally challenged children in her 
beloved Bedford-Stuyvesant.
  She was a woman of high distinction and a real New Yorker, a real 
Brooklynite, survived by three children and nine grandchildren who will 
never forget her kindness and love.
  I, too, was very fortunate in my youth to have been a part of the 
extended family of the Williams. I befriended their youngest daughter, 
Celeste, and we grew up together in the quintessential village that 
raised its children in the Prospect-Lefferts community in Brooklyn, 
where we were neighbors. Mrs. Williams and her family embraced me and 
reinforced the values of my home and family. She shared the 
expectations of becoming highly educated and well-rounded young adults, 
always encouraging through conversations filled with laughter.

                              {time}  1015

  Her support and encouragement helped me in my formative years to 
focus on my educational goals and lifelong aspirations.
  To my dearest Cheryle, Conrad, and Celeste, I extend my deepest, most 
profound condolences. Now that she has returned to her ancestors, let 
us always remember her timeless pursuit of public service, her profound 
respect for education and lifelong learning, and her love for family 
and community.
  She is now in the arms of God. Well done, Dolores Williams. Rest now 
in peace.

[[Page H2701]]

  

                          ____________________



