

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 26 (Tuesday, February 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 26 (Tuesday, February 14, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H1138]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1215
                      RESIGNATION OF MICHAEL FLYNN

  (Mr. DEUTCH asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. DEUTCH. Mr. Speaker, Michael Flynn's resignation does not close 
the book on the administration's coziness with Russia. It confirms the 
urgent need for a bipartisan investigation of Russia's ties to the 
Trump administration and its ongoing influence. It confirms the urgent 
need for the President to release his tax returns so the American 
people can see any business ties that the President has to Russia.
  We need a full, independent inquiry into not just the actions of 
Michael Flynn in one conversation with the Vice President, but the 
ongoing connections between the administration and Russia, because the 
one thing we know for sure is it doesn't stop there. President Trump's 
fawning praise of Putin and the previous resignation of other aides 
over their Russian ties made it clear that this is a problem that goes 
beyond General Flynn.
  What we have learned over the past 24 hours is that colluding with a 
foreign government or lying to the Vice President and others is not 
what brought Flynn down. It seems that it was only the disclosure of 
those lies that made it untenable for Flynn to remain. The White House 
was apparently okay with everything until the American people found 
out.
  We need to find out what else the White House and President Trump 
doesn't want us to know about their connection to the foreign power 
that interfered with our election, and we need to start today.

                          ____________________



