

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 28 (Thursday, February 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 28 (Thursday, February 16, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1300-S1301]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 VALLEY COUNTY'S CENTENNIAL ANNIVERSARY

 Mr. CRAPO. Mr. President, my colleague Senator Jim Risch joins 
me today in recognizing Valley County, ID, on its 100-year anniversary 
of its establishment by the Idaho State Legislature in 1917.
  Valley County's rich natural resources and landscapes have long been 
a draw for the determined and industrious. The Native Americans, 
packers, prospectors, miners, homesteaders, trappers, ranchers, 
loggers, farmers, recreationists, conservationists, and more who have 
made homes in and traversed the county have contributed to its deep and 
fascinating history and shaped its culture. This expansive

[[Page S1301]]

county--approximately 2.4 million acres and roughly 3.7 thousand square 
miles--encompasses hundreds of lakes, three national forests, rivers, 
fish and wildlife habitat, streams, grassland, and mountainous 
landscapes. It is no wonder the county's stunning terrain continues to 
attract those who enjoy the outdoors.
  The county's splendor and ruggedness are matched by the grace and 
determination of the more than 9,000 Idahoans who make the area home. 
Over the years, Valley County residents have faced booms and downturns 
in the mining, logging, and agriculture sectors with resilience and 
continue to forge ahead with collaborative efforts to increase economic 
opportunities. Mining, fueled by the Idaho Gold Rush, has roots in the 
county stretching back more than a century. Logging has also been a 
historically central part of the county's economic base, and efforts to 
reestablish these sectors continue.
  We wish the residents of Valley County all the best as they seek 
advancements in tourism and innovation for this important part of our 
great State. Congratulations on this significant milestone in Valley 
County's history and 100 years of achievements.

                          ____________________



