

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 51 (Thursday, March 23, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 51 (Thursday, March 23, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1941-S1942]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       NOMINATION OF NEIL GORSUCH

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, this week Supreme Court nominee Judge

[[Page S1942]]

Neil Gorsuch came before the Senate Judiciary Committee for his 
confirmation hearing. Senators from both sides had the opportunity to 
ask him questions. Both they and the American people were able to learn 
more about Judge Gorsuch, about the type of jurist he has been and will 
continue to be, about his character and temperament, and about his 
aptitude to serve on the Supreme Court.
  His answers reflected what we have all come to find about the judge 
over the past several weeks. He has sterling credentials and a 
reputation as a fair and impartial jurist. He is also known to be a 
gifted writer, who is smart, kind, humble, and independent.
  As I mentioned yesterday, his impressive testimony has caught the 
attention of publications, news outlets, and commentators from across 
the country and across the political spectrum. In a panel discussion 
just yesterday, an MSNBC commentator noted Judge Gorsuch's ``masterful 
performance''--one that he called a ``tour de force.''
  Another panelist and NBC correspondent had a complimentary view of 
the nominee, as well, noting that ``in terms of character, in terms of 
professionalism, [and in terms of] integrity, there wasn't, I would 
argue, anything, or hardly anything there to criticize Gorsuch on.''
  The Wall Street Journal noted that Gorsuch ``stressed his 
independence'' throughout the hearing. The Detroit news echoed these 
observations and has urged the Senate to confirm him. It editorialized 
that ``[a]fter two days of often hostile hearings, Supreme Court 
nominee Neil Gorsuch is proving himself an even-tempered, deeply 
knowledgeable nominee who should be confirmed by the Senate.''
  The paper also noted that Judge Gorsuch is ``[eminently] qualified'' 
and that he ``is coming across in the hearings as the very image of a 
thoughtful jurist. He displayed an impressive depth of knowledge, and 
admirable patience. And he's carefully followed past practice of 
judicial nominees in refusing to say how he'd rule on specific 
issues.''
  His independence is really without question at this point. The 
American Bar Association, which awarded Judge Gorsuch its highest 
rating of unanimously ``well qualified,'' recently submitted testimony 
to the Judiciary Committee. Here is what the Bar Association had to say 
about Judge Gorsuch's independence:

       Our evaluation process provided an excellent opportunity to 
     gain a glimpse at whether Judge Gorsuch is a judge who 
     ascribes to the concept of an independent judiciary. Based on 
     the writings, interviews, and analyses we scrutinized to 
     reach our rating, we discerned that Judge Gorsuch believes 
     strongly in the independence of the judicial branch of 
     government, and we predict that he will be a strong but 
     respectful voice in protecting it.

  The ABA went on:

       As one interviewee noted with alacrity, ``Judge Gorsuch has 
     `grit,' which he gets from being a multi-generation 
     Westerner.'' Another stated, ``He is dedicated to the 
     constitutional doctrine of separation of powers and to the 
     independence of the judiciary.'' Yet another observed, ``In 
     addition to his outstanding academic credentials and 
     brilliant mind, Judge Gorsuch's demeanor and written opinions 
     during his tenure on the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals 
     demonstrate that he believes unwaveringly in the rule of law 
     and judicial independence. In my opinion, he is exceptionally 
     well qualified to serve as a justice of the Supreme Court of 
     the United States.'' We agree.

  I certainly agree with that. This is from the American Bar 
Association, an organization that the Democratic leader and former 
Democratic chairman of the Judiciary Committee have deemed the gold 
standard for evaluating nominees. In addition, the assistant Democratic 
leader acknowledged yesterday that Judge Gorsuch is ``very gifted'' and 
``has a great background and service as judge.''
  But despite the Judge's outstanding performance, his exceptional 
background, and the extensive support he has received from people of 
all political leanings, we know that some Senate Democrats will 
continue trying to come up with any reason to delay the confirmation 
process. It is not the first time we have seen our friends across the 
aisle engage in obstructionist tactics. In fact, we just saw a historic 
level of obstruction when it came to confirming the President's 
Cabinet.
  We know that our colleagues are under a great deal of pressure from 
the far left. We know some of these groups are calling for them to 
``resist.'' We know that even more than 4 months after the election, 
some on the far left simply refuse to accept the outcome of last year's 
election.
  Well, it is past time to move on from that mindset and return to the 
serious business of governing. One way we can do so is by confirming 
Judge Gorsuch as the next Supreme Court Justice without delay. He is a 
proven jurist. He is an outstanding intellect. He has earned the 
respect and admiration of so many--Democrats, Independents, and 
Republicans alike. He is also unquestionably independent.
  Today we will hear even more praise for Judge Gorsuch as witnesses 
come before the Judiciary Committee. I urge my colleagues to show him 
the fair consideration he deserves and, ultimately, to come together in 
supporting his nomination in the days ahead.

                          ____________________



