

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 59 (Wednesday, April 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 59 (Wednesday, April 5, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2707]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   NATIONAL RETIREMENT PLANNING WEEK

  (Ms. KAPTUR asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.)
  Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in recognition of the nearly 50 
million baby boomers about to retire. It is National Retirement 
Planning Week, and before I get to the importance of this effort, let 
me say, there are no more important foundational programs that sustain 
our seniors and retirees than Medicare and Social Security. These 
earned benefits are critical, as nearly half of all baby boomers saved 
nothing for their retirement.
  Thank you to Representative John Larson from Connecticut for 
introducing the Social Security 2100 Act, which protects and 
strengthens Social Security for decades to come. I have long been an 
advocate for protecting workers' pensions, and, sadly, more Americans 
than ever before are shouldering the burden of financing retirement 
alone.
  That is why we need a national conversation on retirement planning, 
and Congress should lead it. Far too many seniors find Social Security 
is simply not enough to live on. America must preserve Social Security, 
protect retirement accounts and pensions, and work with our 
constituents to make sure they have the resources they need to have a 
dignified retirement.
  Thank you to the National Retirement Planning Coalition, whose 
fantastic online resources are available to all Americans free of 
charge. Let's get to work for our retirees.
  In closing, let me also say hardiest congratulations to Congressman 
Steve Stivers from the great State of Ohio, who has been just promoted 
to brigadier general in the Ohio National Guard. Onward, Steve Stivers. 
We are very proud of you on a bipartisan basis.

                          ____________________



