

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 23 (Thursday, February 9, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 23 (Thursday, February 9, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S976]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        NOMINATION OF TOM PRICE

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, the nominee currently before us is the 
President's pick for Health and Human Services Secretary, Congressman 
Tom Price, a physician. Dr. Price knows more about health care policy 
than just about anyone. He doesn't just understand health care policy 
as a policymaker--although he does deeply--he also understands it as a 
practicing physician. He gets the real-world impact.
  He has a clear-eyed view about Washington's capacity to do great 
harm, even with the best of intentions, just as he is excited about his 
potential to do great good.
  He can start having a positive impact almost as soon as he is 
confirmed. He can start bringing stability to the health care markets 
ObamaCare has harmed. He can start bringing relief to the families 
ObamaCare has hurt. I know he is ready to get to work with Congress to 
move toward truly patient-centered health care--care that prioritizes 
the needs of patients over the needs of Washington.
  The American Medical Association supports him and says: ``[H]is 
service as a physician, state legislator and member of the U.S. 
Congress provides a depth of experience to lead HHS.''
  The Association of American Medical Colleges supports him and says: 
``[H]e will bring a thoughtful, measured approach to tackling the wide 
range of issues affecting the nation's health.''
  And the Healthcare Leadership Council couldn't be more enthusiastic. 
``It is difficult,'' they said, ``to imagine anyone more capable of 
serving his nation as the Secretary of Health and Human Services than 
Congressman Tom Price.''
  That is high praise. It also happens to be accurate.
  The American people need Dr. Tom Price applying his practical 
knowledge as a doctor and as a legislator at the Department of Health 
and Human Services, an agency in great need of new leadership.
  This job is a big one. There is no doubting that. It requires 
overseeing some of the Nation's most important programs, like Medicare 
and Medicaid, and helping to protect public health at the CDC and 
helping to find cures at NIH and helping to ensure at the FDA that 
those cures can make it to the patients.
  It is a big job, but Tom Price is the right man for it. We shouldn't 
wait a moment longer to confirm him. As soon as we do, we will turn to 
the nomination of Steve Mnuchin to lead the Department of the Treasury.

                          ____________________



