

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S282-S295]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           TEXT OF AMENDMENTS

  SA111. Mr. MANCHIN (for himself, Mr. Casey, Mr. Warner, Mr. Brown, 
Ms. Heitkamp, and Mrs. Murray)submitted an amendment intended to be 
proposed by him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting 
forth thecongressional budget for the United States Government for 
fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levelsfor 
fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; 
as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRALRESERVE FUND RELATING TO HEALTH AND 
                   PENSION BENEFITS FOR MINERS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the 
     Senatemay revise the allocations of a committee or 
     committees, aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this 
     resolution for one ormore bills, joint resolutions, 
     amendments, amendments between the Houses, motions, or 
     conference reports relating to theinclusion of additional 
     retired miners in the Multiemployer Health Benefit Plan and 
     increased funding of the 1974 UMWA PensionPlan, by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase thedeficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2017 
     through 2021 or the period of the total of fiscal years 
     2017through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 112. Mr. FRANKEN submitted anamendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget forthe United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title IV,add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD 
                   ROLLBACK THE MEDICARE DIABETES PREVENTION 
                   PROGRAM.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to considerany bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     roll back theexpansion of the Medicare Diabetes Prevention 
     Program, including rulemaking related to the program included 
     in the 2017Physician Fee Schedule .
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by anaffirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members ofthe Senate, duly chosen 
     and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of the 
     ruling of the Chair on a point of order raisedunder 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 113. Mr. BLUMENTHAL submitted an amendment intended to beproposed 
by him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United StatesGovernment for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which wasordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:


[[Page S283]]


  

       At the end of title III, add thefollowing:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO SECURITY 
                   FORMEDICAL DEVICES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee orcommittees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, 
     amendments,amendments between the Houses, motions, or 
     conference reports relating to consultation of the Food and 
     Drug Administration withthe National Institute of Standards 
     and Technology to evaluate and consider the cybersecurity of 
     any network-connected medicaldevice as part of the process of 
     clearing or approving such a medical device by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation forthose purposes, provided that 
     such legislation would not increase the deficit over either 
     the period of the total of fiscalyears 2017 through 2021 or 
     the period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA114. Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. Udall, Mr. Carper, 
Ms. Hirono, Mr. Whitehouse,Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Kaine, Mr. 
Warner, and Mr. Cardin) submitted an amendment intendedto be proposed 
by him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United StatesGovernment for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which wasordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title IV, add thefollowing:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT SLASHES 
                   THECOMPENSATION OF INDIVIDUAL FEDERAL 
                   EMPLOYEES.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to considerany bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that 
     directly reduces thecompensation of 1 or more individual 
     Federal employees.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived 
     orsuspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of 
     three-fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An 
     affirmative voteof three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, 
     duly chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal 
     of the ruling of theChair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 115. Mr. MARKEY (for himself,Mr. Durbin, Mr. King, Mr. Manchin, 
and Mr. Brown) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by himto 
the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscalyear 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on thetable; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO THE 
                   RESPONSE TO ILLICIT FENTANYL INTO THE 
                   UNITEDSTATES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or 
     committees,aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this 
     resolution for one or more bills, joint resolutions, 
     amendments, amendmentsbetween the Houses, motions, or 
     conference reports relating to the response by States to 
     illicit fentanyl and other syntheticopioids, including the 
     treatment of individuals harmed by fentanyl and other 
     synthetic opioids, and the efforts of the UnitedStates 
     Government to detect and interdict illicit fentanyl and other 
     synthetic opioids being trafficked into the United States,by 
     the amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the 
     deficitover either the period of the total of fiscal years 
     2017 through 2021 or the period of the total of fiscal years 
     2017 through2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 116. Mr. DONNELLY (for himself, Ms. Klobuchar, Mrs. Shaheen, 
andMr. Casey) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him to 
the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, settingforth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetarylevels for fiscal years 
2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRALRESERVE FUND RELATING TO REPEAL OF 
                   MEDICAL DEVICE TAX.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revisethe allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills,joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to innovation, highquality manufacturing jobs, and 
     economic growth, including the repeal of the excise tax on 
     manufacturers, producers, andimporters of medical devices, by 
     the amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislationwould not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2017 
     through 2021 or the period of the totalof fiscal years 2017 
     through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 117. Mr. SANDERS submitted an amendment intendedto be proposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United StatesGovernment for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which wasordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add thefollowing:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO ENSURING 
                   THATHEALTH CARE IS A RIGHT FOR ALL AMERICANS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise theallocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills,joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to ensuring that healthcare is a right of all 
     Americans, not a privilege dependent on where you live, what 
     job you have, or how much money you make,which shall include 
     a Medicare for All plan to cover everyone in the United 
     States by the amounts provided in such legislationfor those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscalyears 2017 through 2021 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA118. Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself, Mr. Coons, Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. 
Carper, Mr. Booker, Ms. Hassan,and Ms. Hirono) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by her to the concurrent resolution S. Con. 
Res. 3, settingforth the congressional budget for the United States 
Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate 
budgetarylevels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered 
to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDERAGAINST WEAKENING OR ELIMINATING THE 
                   SMALL EMPLOYER HEALTH INSURANCE CREDIT AND 
                   ENSURING THAT INSURERS DO NOT 
                   DISCRIMINATEAGAINST SMALL GROUPS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, jointresolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that--
       (1) weakens or eliminates the taxcredit to help small 
     businesses purchase health insurance under section 45R of the 
     Internal Revenue Code of 1986;
       (2)inhibits the ability of entrepreneurs to purchase 
     affordable health coverage through the individual 
     marketplace; or
       (3)employs discriminatory rating rules that prohibit small 
     businesses from providing affordable, comprehensive benefits 
     to theiremployees.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative voteof three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, dulychosen 
     and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of the 
     ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection(a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 119. Mr. CASEY (for himself and Mr.Heinrich) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him to the concurrent resolution 
S. Con. Res. 3, setting forththe congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetarylevels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRALRESERVE FUND RELATING TO PROTECTING 
                   RURAL HOSPITALS THAT LOST REVENUE AND SAW AN 
                   INCREASE IN UNINSURED PATIENTS AS A RESULT 
                   OFREPEALING THE MEDICAID EXPANSION AND THE 
                   EXCHANGES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise theallocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills,joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to protecting ruralhospitals that lost revenue and 
     saw an increase in the number of uninsured patients due to 
     the repeal of the Medicaid expansionand the Exchanges under 
     the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Public Law 
     111-148) to ensure that amounts equal toamounts provided 
     under such Act continue to be provided to such facilities by 
     the amounts provided in such legislation for thosepurposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 
     2017through 2021 or the period of the total of fiscal years 
     2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 120. Mr.MERKLEY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by

[[Page S284]]

him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forththe 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetarylevels for fiscal years 
2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDERAGAINST A BUDGET RECONCILIATION 
                   MEASURE THAT FAILS TO INCLUDE A 
                   NONDISCRIMINATION PROVISION.

       (a) Point of Order.--Itshall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider a bill or joint resolution reported pursuant to 
     section 2001 or 2002, or anamendment to, motion on, 
     conference report on, or amendment between the Houses in 
     relation to, such a bill or joint resolution,if the bill or 
     joint resolution fails to include a provision referred to in 
     subsection (b).
       (b) NondiscriminationProvision.--The provision referred to 
     in subsection (a) is a provision that forbids discrimination 
     on the basis of race, color,religion, sex, sexual 
     orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, or 
     disability in employment for, contracting for, orprovision 
     of, the programs and activities covered by the bill or joint 
     resolution.
       (c) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection(a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn.An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appealof 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 121. Mr.MERKLEY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth 
thecongressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal 
year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levelsfor fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDERAGAINST REDUCING FUNDING THAT WOULD 
                   HELP STATE OR LOCAL HEALTH DEPARTMENTS BATTLE 
                   THE ZIKA VIRUS.

       (a) Point ofOrder.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider a bill or joint resolution reported pursuant to 
     section 2001 orsection 2002, or an amendment to, motion on, 
     conference report on, or amendment between the Houses in 
     relation to such a bill orjoint resolution, that would reduce 
     funding, provided by the Prevention and Public Health Fund, 
     established under section 4002of the Patient Protection and 
     Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 300u-11), to the Epidemiology 
     and Laboratory Capacity Programthat would help State or local 
     health departments battle the Zika virus.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may bewaived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. Anaffirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal 
     ofthe ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 122. Mr.MERKLEY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth 
thecongressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal 
year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levelsfor fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDERAGAINST LEGISLATION THAT IMPACTS THE 
                   ABILITY OF A YOUNG PERSON FROM STAYING ON THEIR 
                   PARENTS' HEALTH INSURANCE PLAN.

       (a)Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendmentbetween the Houses, or conference report that would 
     repeal or reduce premium assistance tax credits for 
     individuals between theages of 18 and 26, or prevent them 
     from staying on their parents' health insurance plan.
       (b) Waiver andAppeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members,duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall berequired to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 123. Mr. MERKLEY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution S.Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth theappropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 
2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; asfollows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST REDUCING HEALTH INSURANCE 
                   ASSISTANCE FOR CHILDREN WITH CANCER.

       (a) Point ofOrder.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider a bill or joint resolution reported pursuant to 
     section 2001 or2002, or an amendment to, motion on, 
     conference report on, or amendment between the Houses in 
     relation to such a bill or jointresolution, that reduces 
     health insurance assistance, including by reducing or 
     eliminating the premium assistance credit undersection 36B of 
     the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 for children diagnosed with 
     cancer without any equivalent substitute orreplacement.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative voteof three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, dulychosen 
     and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of the 
     ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection(a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 124. Mr. MERKLEY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to theconcurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal 
year2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on thetable; as 
follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST INCREASING TAXES ON LOWER 
                   INCOME AMERICANS WHILE REDUCING TAXES FORTHE 
                   TOP 1 PERCENT.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider a bill or joint resolutionreported pursuant to 
     section 2001 or 2002, or an amendment to, motion on, 
     conference report on, or amendment between the Housesin 
     relation to such a bill or joint resolution, that increases 
     taxes for individuals within the bottom 60 percent for 
     annualincome while reducing taxes for individuals within the 
     top 1 percent for annual income.
       (b) Waiver andAppeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members,duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall berequired to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 125. Mr. MERKLEY submitted an amendment intended to beproposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United StatesGovernment for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which wasordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title IV, add thefollowing:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT FAILS TO 
                   PROTECTINDIVIDUALS WITH PRE-EXISTING 
                   CONDITIONS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider a billor joint resolution reported pursuant to 
     section 2001 or section 2002, or an amendment to, motion on, 
     conference report on, oramendment between the Houses in 
     relation to such a bill or joint resolution, that would 
     repeal or reduce premium assistance taxcredits for 
     individuals with pre-existing conditions, such as cancer, 
     heart disease, diabetes, or old injuries, or prevent 
     theseindividuals from receiving the insurance coverage 
     afforded to them under the Patient Protection and Affordable 
     Care Act (PublicLaw 111-148).
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmativevote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate,duly chosen 
     and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of the 
     ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised 
     undersubsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 126. Mr. COONS (for himself, Mr. Brown, Ms. Baldwin, Mr.King, Mr. 
Van Hollen, Ms. Warren, and Mrs. Gillibrand) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed byhim to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 
3, setting forth the congressional budget for the United States 
Government forfiscal year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate 
budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; asfollows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD 
                   PERMIT LIFETIME LIMITS ON HEALTH CARE COVERAGE.

       (a)Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendmentbetween the Houses, or conference report that would 
     permit lifetime limits on health care coverage.
       (b) Waiver andAppeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members,duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall

[[Page S285]]

     berequired to sustain an appeal of the ruling of the Chair on 
     a point of order raised under subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 127. Ms. WARREN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
her to the concurrent resolution S.Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth theappropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 
2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; asfollows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   SUPPORTING EFFORTS OF THE FOOD AND DRUG 
                   ADMINISTRATION WITHRESPECT TO ACCESS TO OVER-
                   THE-COUNTER HEARING AIDS FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH 
                   PERCEIVED MILD TO MODERATE HEARING LOSS.

       TheChairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, andother appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses,motions, or conference reports 
     relating to supporting efforts of the Food and Drug 
     Administration with respect to access toover-the-counter 
     hearing aids for individuals with perceived mild to moderate 
     hearing loss by the amounts provided in suchlegislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of thetotal of 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2021 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 128. Ms. WARREN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
her to the concurrent resolution S.Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth theappropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 
2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; asfollows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   SUPPORTING EFFORTS OF THE FOOD AND DRUG 
                   ADMINISTRATION TOIMPROVE POSTMARKET DEVICE 
                   SURVEILLANCE AND TO INCLUDE DEVICE IDENTIFIER 
                   INFORMATION IN MEDICAL CLAIMS FORMS.

       The Chairman ofthe Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and otherappropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses,motions, or conference reports 
     relating to supporting efforts of the Food and Drug 
     Administration to improve postmarket devicesurveillance and 
     to include device identifier information in medical claims 
     forms by the amounts provided in such legislationfor those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscalyears 2017 through 2021 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA129. Ms. WARREN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
her to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, settingforth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetarylevels for fiscal years 
2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRALRESERVE FUND RELATING TO SUPPORTING 
                   EFFORTS TO PROMOTE CLINICAL TRIAL DATA SHARING 
                   THAT SUPPORTS MEDICAL RESEARCH ANDINNOVATION.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee orcommittees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, 
     amendments,amendments between the Houses, motions, or 
     conference reports relating to supporting efforts to promote 
     clinical trial datasharing that supports medical research and 
     innovation by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, providedthat such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2021 orthe period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 130. Ms. WARREN submittedan amendment intended to be proposed by 
her to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budgetfor the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title IV,add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT 
                   WOULDOBSTRUCT NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, 
                   FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION, AND OPIOID 
                   PROGRAM FUNDING PROMISED UNDER THE 21ST 
                   CENTURYCURES ACT.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion,amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     cause amounts authorized to be appropriated from theNIH 
     Innovation Account, the FDA Innovation Account, or the 
     Account For the State Response to the Opioid Abuse Crisis 
     under the21st Century Cures Act (Public Law 114-255) not to 
     be appropriated in the full amounts set forth in such Act.
       (b)Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths ofthe Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn,shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 131. Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr. Markey, Mr.Cardin, Mr. Van 
Hollen, Ms. Warren, Ms. Stabenow, and Mr. Reed) submitted an amendment 
intended tobe proposed by him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 
3, setting forth the congressional budget for the United 
StatesGovernment for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate 
budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which wasordered 
to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add thefollowing:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT REDUCES THE 
                   LIFEOF THE MEDICARE PROGRAM FOR CURRENT AND 
                   FUTURE BENEFICIARIES.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in theSenate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report 
     thatreduces the life of the Medicare program for current and 
     future beneficiaries by including a provision that reduces 
     revenue tothe Medicare Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended inthe Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair ona point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINSTLEGISLATION THAT CUTS FUNDING 
                   TO STATES AVAILABLE UNDER CURRENT LAW TO 
                   PROVIDE COMPREHENSIVE, AFFORDABLE HEALTH CARE 
                   TO LOW-INCOME AMERICANS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution,motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that cuts 
     funding to States available under current law toprovide 
     comprehensive, affordable health care to low-income 
     Americans, including those struggling with opioid addiction 
     andmental health conditions and those in need of nursing home 
     care, by repealing the Medicaid expansion or otherwise 
     reducingFederal financial assistance to States available 
     under the Medicaid program.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) maybe waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. Anaffirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal 
     ofthe ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 132. Mr.FRANKEN (for himself, Mr. Van Hollen, and Mr. Brown) 
submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him to theconcurrent 
resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which 
was ordered to lie on thetable; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD DRIVE 
                   UP HEALTH INSURANCE COMPANYPROFITS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion,amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     enable commercial health insurers to use less than 80percent 
     of premium income to pay for claims and quality improvement 
     measures.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) maybe waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. Anaffirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal 
     ofthe ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 133. Mr.WYDEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth 
thecongressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal 
year 2017 and

[[Page S286]]

setting forth the appropriate budgetarylevels for fiscal years 2018 
through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRALRESERVE FUND RELATING TO A 
                   CONGRESSIONAL TRADE NEGOTIATING OBJECTIVE TO 
                   ELIMINATE BINATIONAL REVIEW OF TRADE 
                   REMEDYDETERMINATIONS IN ANY RENEGOTIATION OF 
                   THE NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budgetof the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in thisresolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference 
     reportsrelating to a congressional trade negotiating 
     objective to eliminate binational panel and committee review 
     of final antidumpingand countervailing duty determinations in 
     any renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement 
     by the amounts providedin such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period ofthe total of fiscal 
     years 2017 through 2021 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 134. Mr. SANDERS (for himself, Ms. Stabenow, and Mr. Franken) 
submitted an amendment intendedto be proposed by him to the concurrent 
resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for 
the United StatesGovernment for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which 
wasordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add thefollowing:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   LOWERINGPRESCRIPTION DRUG PRICES FOR AMERICANS 
                   BY IMPORTING DRUGS FROM CANADA AND OTHER 
                   COUNTRIES.

       The Chairman of the Committee onthe Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels inthis resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conferencereports 
     relating to lowering prescription drug prices, including 
     through the importation of safe and affordable 
     prescriptiondrugs by American pharmacists, wholesalers, and 
     individuals with a valid prescription from a provider 
     licensed to practice inthe United States, by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would notincrease the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 
     2021 or the period of the total of fiscalyears 2017 through 
     2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 135. Mr. FRANKEN (for himself, Ms. Warren, Mr.Whitehouse, Ms. 
Baldwin, and Mr. Reed) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
by him to the concurrentresolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 andsetting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 
2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; asfollows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO CLOSING 
                   THE CARRIED INTEREST LOOPHOLE.

       The Chairman ofthe Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and otherappropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses,motions, or conference reports 
     relating to the taxation of income from investment 
     partnerships (known as carried interest),which may include 
     legislation that allows for the taxing as ordinary income of 
     a partner's share of income on an investmentservices 
     partnership interest, by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislationwould not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 2021 or the 
     period of the totalof fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 136. Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Ms. Hirono,Mr. Booker, Mr. Brown, 
Mr. Carper, Mr. Van Hollen, and Ms. Warren) submitted an amendment 
intendedto be proposed by him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 
3, setting forth the congressional budget for the United 
StatesGovernment for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate 
budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which wasordered 
to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST REDUCING ACCESS TO, OR 
                   AFFORDABILITY OF,HEALTH CARE SERVICES FOR 
                   MINORITIES AND OTHER POPULATIONS THAT HAVE BEEN 
                   HISTORICALLY SUBJECT TO DISCRIMINATION.

       (a)Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendmentbetween the Houses, or conference report that, as 
     determined by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
     Office, would reduceaccess to, or affordability of, health 
     care services for minorities and other populations that have 
     been historically subject todiscrimination, including 
     American Indians and Alaskan Natives, Asian Americans, 
     African Americans, Latino Americans, and NativeHawaiians or 
     other Pacific Islanders, by reversing the significant gains 
     in access to and affordability of health care servicesmade by 
     the Affordable Care Act, including--
       (1) the expansion of Medicaid coverage to low-income 
     Americans with incomes upto 138 percent of the Federal 
     poverty level in the States that have implemented the 
     Medicaid expansion, benefitting 51 percentof American Indians 
     and Alaska Natives, 32 percent of African Americans, 26 
     percent of Asian Americans, and 25 percent of 
     LatinoAmericans; and
       (2) the establishment of financial assistance, including 
     premium tax credits and cost-sharing reductions,allowing 19 
     percent of American Indians and Alaska Natives, 23 percent of 
     African Americans, 18 percent of Asian Americans, and16 
     percent of Latino Americans to gain access to essential 
     health care coverage.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a)may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. Anaffirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal 
     ofthe ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 137. Mr. REED (for himself, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Van Hollen, and 
Ms.Warren) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him to the 
concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forththe congressional 
budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and 
setting forth the appropriate budgetarylevels for fiscal years 2018 
through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDERAGAINST CUTTING LONG-TERM SERVICES 
                   AND SUPPORTS FOR SENIORS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the 
     Senateto consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, 
     amendment, amendment between the Houses, or conference report 
     that would cutlong term services and supports for seniors, 
     including nursing home care and home and community-based 
     care, under the Medicaidprogram under title XIX of the Social 
     Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.) by reducing Federal 
     funding of State Medicaidprograms, including by instituting a 
     block grant model for Federal funding of State Medicaid 
     programs or imposing per capitacaps on Federal funding of 
     State Medicaid programs.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended inthe Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair ona point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 138. Mr. HELLER submitted an amendmentintended to be proposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for theUnited States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, addthe following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   IMPROVINGHEALTH CARE QUALITY FOR VETERANS AND 
                   THEIR DEPENDENTS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revisethe allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills,joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to improving health carequality for veterans and 
     their dependents, prohibiting legislation that forces or 
     mandates veterans or their dependents to beenrolled in 
     government-managed health care such as the Patient Protection 
     and Affordable Care Act (Public Law 111-138), andensuring 
     availability and accessibility of health care through the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs, by the amounts provided 
     insuch legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of thetotal of fiscal years 2017 through 2021 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 139. Mr. BROWN (for himself and Mr. Merkley) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by himto the concurrent resolution S. 
Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscalyear 2017 and setting

[[Page S287]]

forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 
2026; which was ordered to lieon the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add thefollowing:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO DEBT 
                   INCURREDFROM HEALTH CARE EXPENSES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of acommittee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions,amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to additional financial protections forconsumers 
     from the effects of any changes to the Patient Protection and 
     Affordable Care Act, the Medicare program, the 
     Medicaidprogram, or the Children's Health Insurance Program 
     that result in increases in the costs of health care and in 
     health care-related debts on consumer credit reports, by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that suchlegislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2017 
     through 2021 or the periodof the total of fiscal years 2017 
     through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 140. Ms. WARREN submitted anamendment intended to be proposed by 
her to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget forthe United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title IV,add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT FAILS 
                   TOPROTECT HEALTH CARE CONSUMERS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, jointresolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that 
     increases health insurance premiums,reduces cost-sharing 
     subsidies, increases deductibles, or reduces network 
     adequacy.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection(a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn.An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appealof 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 141. Ms.WARREN (for herself, Ms. Baldwin, and Mrs. Murray) 
submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by her to theconcurrent 
resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which 
was ordered to lie on thetable; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO BLOOD 
                   DONATIONS.

       The Chairman of theCommittee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriatelevels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, orconference reports 
     to support the development of risk-based deferral criteria 
     and policies regarding blood donation, by theamounts provided 
     in such legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit overeither the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 2021 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 142. Ms. WARREN (for herself and Mr. Casey) submitted an 
amendmentintended to be proposed by her to the concurrent resolution S. 
Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for theUnited 
States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through2026; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, addthe following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PROVIDINGFUNDING TO NIH AND FDA TO SUPPORT 
                   BIOMEDICAL INNOVATION RESEARCH.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the 
     Senatemay revise the allocations of a committee or 
     committees, aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this 
     resolution for one ormore bills, joint resolutions, 
     amendments, amendments between the Houses, motions, or 
     conference reports relating toestablishing a Biomedical 
     Innovation Fund that will support $5,000,000,000 in annual 
     supplementary funds to the NationalInstitutes of Health and 
     the Food and Drug Administration to support biomedical 
     innovation research by the amounts provided insuch 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of thetotal of fiscal years 2017 through 2021 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 143. Ms. CANTWELL (for herself, Mr. Carper, Mr.Bennet, Mrs. 
Shaheen, Mr. Murphy, Ms. Warren, Mr. King, Mr. Van Hollen, Ms. 
Klobuchar,Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. Warner, and Ms. Duckworth) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by her to theconcurrent resolution S. 
Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year2017 and setting forth the appropriate 
budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINTOF ORDER AGAINST ANY CHANGES TO THE MEDICARE 
                   PROGRAM, THE MEDICAID PROGRAM, OR THE NUMBER OF 
                   AMERICANS ENROLLED IN PRIVATEHEALTH INSURANCE 
                   COVERAGE, IN A MANNER THAT WOULD RESULT IN 
                   REDUCED REVENUE TO HOSPITALS, HEALTH CARE 
                   CENTERS, AND PHYSICIANSAND OTHER HEALTH CARE 
                   PROVIDERS, THEREBY REDUCING THEIR INVESTMENTS 
                   IN HEALTH CARE DELIVERY SYSTEM REFORMS THAT 
                   IMPROVE PATIENTHEALTH OUTCOMES AND REDUCE 
                   COSTS.

       (a) Findings.--The Senate finds the following:
       (1) The Affordable Care Act ismoving the health care system 
     of the United States from a fee-for-service system that 
     frequently incentivizes theoverutilization of health care 
     services and wasteful health care spending to a value- and 
     performance-based health care systemthat promotes patient-
     centered and team-based care to keep Americans as healthy as 
     possible, improve health outcomes, and lowerhealth care 
     costs.
       (2) Because of the investments in health care delivery 
     system reforms made by the Affordable Care Act, athird of 
     Medicare payments to health care providers are now based on 
     the overall quality of patient care and health 
     outcomesachieved by such providers.
       (b) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, jointresolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     change the Medicare program, theMedicaid program, or the 
     number of Americans enrolled in private health insurance 
     coverage, in a manner that would result inreduced revenue to 
     hospitals, health care centers, and physicians and other 
     health care providers, thereby reducing theirinvestments in 
     health care delivery system reforms that improve patient 
     health outcomes and reduce costs.
       (c) Waiver andAppeal.--Subsection (b) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members,duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall berequired to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (b).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 144. Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and Ms. Warren) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed byher to the concurrent resolution S. 
Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for the United 
States Government forfiscal year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate 
budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered 
to lieon the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add thefollowing:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD 
                   RESTRICTTRANSPARENCY IN THE RELATIONSHIP 
                   BETWEEN PHYSICIANS AND MANUFACTURERS OF DRUGS, 
                   DEVICES, BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, OR 
                   MEDICALSUPPLIES, INCLUDING THROUGH REPEAL OF 
                   THE PHYSICIAN PAYMENTS SUNSHINE ACT PROVIDED 
                   UNDER THE PATIENT PROTECTION AND AFFORDABLECARE 
                   ACT.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion,amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     restrict transparency in the relationship betweenphysicians 
     and manufacturers of drugs, devices, biological products, or 
     medical supplies, including through repeal of thePhysician 
     Payments Sunshine Act provided under section 6002 of the 
     Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.
       (b) Waiverand Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of theMembers, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shallbe required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection(a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 145. Mr. MURPHY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to theconcurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal 
year2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on thetable; as 
follows:

       At the appropriate place, add thefollowing:

[[Page S288]]

  


     SEC. ___. SENSE OF THE SENATE THAT THE PATIENT PROTECTIONAND 
                   AFFORDABLE CARE ACT SHOULD NOT BE REPEALED 
                   WITHOUT A COMPREHENSIVE LEGISLATIVE 
                   REPLACEMENT.

       It is the sense of theSenate that, in order to avoid major 
     detrimental impacts to millions of Americans, the Patient 
     Protection and Affordable CareAct should not be repealed 
     without simultaneous legislative action on comprehensive 
     replacement legislation that will provide atleast the same 
     level of health care coverage as current law.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 146. Ms. WARRENsubmitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
her to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth 
thecongressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal 
year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levelsfor fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDERAGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD HAVE 
                   THE EFFECT OF NOT ALLOWING STATE GOVERNMENTS TO 
                   KEEP THEIR CURRENT HEALTH CARE 
                   PROTECTIONSESTABLISHED BY THE PATIENT 
                   PROTECTION AND AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in theSenate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that 
     wouldhave the effect of not allowing State governments to 
     keep their current health care protections established by the 
     PatientProtection and Affordable Care Act.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate onlyby an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Membersof the Senate, duly chosen 
     and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of the 
     ruling of the Chair on a point of orderraised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 147. Ms. CANTWELL (for herself, Mr. Schumer, Mrs.Gillibrand, Ms. 
Klobuchar, and Mr. Franken) submitted an amendment intended to be 
proposed by her to theconcurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting 
forth the congressional budget for the United States Government for 
fiscal year2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for 
fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on thetable; 
as follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD 
                   REDUCE FEDERAL ASSISTANCE TO STATES THATCHOOSE 
                   TO IMPLEMENT THE BASIC HEALTH PROGRAM.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to considerany bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     reduce Federalassistance to States that choose to implement 
     the basic health program under section 1331 of the Patient 
     Protection andAffordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 18051), in order 
     to preserve low-cost, efficient health insurance for low-
     income Americans whileincreasing health insurance enrollment 
     and reducing State budget expenditures.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a)may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. Anaffirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal 
     ofthe ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 148. Mr.CARPER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth 
thecongressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal 
year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levelsfor fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDERAGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD REDUCE 
                   COVERAGE OR INCREASE HEALTH CARE COSTS FOR 
                   INDIVIDUALS WITH DEMENTIA UNDER 
                   MEDICAID,MEDICARE, OR PRIVATE HEALTH INSURANCE.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill,joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     reduce coverage or increasehealth care costs for individuals 
     with dementia under Medicaid, Medicare, or private health 
     insurance.
       (b) Waiver andAppeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members,duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall berequired to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 149. Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr. Merkley, Mr.Cardin, Mr. Markey, 
Mr. Leahy, Mr. Van Hollen, Ms. Warren, and Mrs. Gillibrand) submitted 
anamendment intended to be proposed by him to the concurrent resolution 
S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget forthe United 
States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018through 2026; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of titleIV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST UNDERMINING THE PURPOSEOF 
                   SECTION 1115 WAIVER DEMONSTRATIONS TO PROVIDE 
                   COMPREHENSIVE, AFFORDABLE HEALTH CARE TO LOW-
                   INCOME AMERICANS.

       (a) Pointof Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment betweenthe Houses, or conference report that 
     would--
       (1) eliminate or reduce a State's flexibility to employ 
     waiver demonstrationsapproved under section 1115 of the 
     Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1315) to provide 
     comprehensive, affordable health care to low-income 
     individuals eligible for medical assistance under section 
     1902(a)(10)(A)(i)(VIII) of the Social Security Act (42 
     U.S.C.1396a(a)(10)(A)(i)(VIII)) by eliminating or reducing 
     the availability of Federal financial assistance to States 
     available underthe expansion of Medicaid under section 
     1905(y)(1) or 1905(z)(2) of the Social Security Act (42 
     U.S.C. 1396d(y)(1), 1396d(z)(2)); or
       (2) undermine the purpose of such waivers to demonstrate 
     and evaluate policy approaches such as expandingeligibility 
     to individuals who are not otherwise Medicaid or CHIP 
     eligible, providing services not typically covered 
     byMedicaid, or using innovative service delivery systems that 
     improve care, increase efficiency, and reduce costs, by 
     institutingharmful policies such as work requirements and 
     onerous premiums and cost-sharing requirements that are not 
     in line with theobjectives of such waivers.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by anaffirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members ofthe Senate, duly chosen 
     and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of the 
     ruling of the Chair on a point of order raisedunder 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 150. Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mrs. Murray, Mr.Bennet, Mr. 
Blumenthal, Mr. Booker, and Mr. Warner) submitted an amendment intended 
to be proposed byhim to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, 
setting forth the congressional budget for the United States Government 
forfiscal year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lieon the 
table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add thefollowing:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO HELPING 
                   STATES,COUNTIES, AND INDIAN TRIBES ADDRESS THE 
                   RECENT INCREASE IN FOSTER CARE ENTRIES DRIVEN 
                   BY THE OPIOID EPIDEMIC.

       The Chairmanof the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and otherappropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses,motions, or conference reports 
     relating to helping States, counties, and Indian Tribes 
     address the recent increase in fostercare entries driven by 
     the opioid epidemic through means such as allowing Federal 
     child welfare matching funds to be used forsubstance use 
     treatment and other evidence-based programs to help families 
     stay safely together, providing resources tograndparents and 
     other relatives, and improving the quality and oversight of 
     Federally-funded foster care programs, by theamounts provided 
     in such legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit overeither the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 2021 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 151. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him 
to theconcurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal 
year2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on thetable; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3__. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO THE 
                   PROTECTION AND RECOVERY OF THE GREATER SAGE-
                   GROUSE.

       (a) In General.--The Chairman of the Committee on the 
     Budget of the Senate may revise the allocations of acommittee 
     or committees, aggregates, and other appropriate levels in 
     this resolution for one or more bills, joint 
     resolutions,amendments, amendments between the Houses, 
     motions,

[[Page S289]]

     or conference reports relating to the implementing the delay 
     describedin subsection (b), requiring the coordination 
     described in subsection (c), and precluding the judicial 
     review described insubsection (d) by the amounts provided in 
     such legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not raisenew revenue and would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2017 through 2021 or theperiod of the total of fiscal 
     years 2017 through 2026.
       (b) Description of Delay.--A delay referred to in 
     subsection (a)is, in the case of a State with a State 
     management plan, a delay on the Secretary of the Interior 
     making a finding under section4(b)(3)(B) of the Endangered 
     Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1533(b)(3)(B)) with respect to 
     the greater sage-grouse in the Stateuntil September 30, 2026.
       (c) Description of Coordination.--The coordination referred 
     to in subsection (a) is--
       (1)for the purpose of fostering coordination between a 
     State management plan and Federal resource management plans 
     that affect thegreater sage-grouse, the Governor of a State 
     with a State management plan providing notification to the 
     Secretary of theInterior and the Secretary of Agriculture, as 
     applicable, who, on receipt of that notification, may not 
     exercise authority undersection 204 of the Federal Land 
     Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1714) to make, 
     modify, or extend any withdrawal, oramend or otherwise 
     modify, any Federal resource management plan applicable to 
     Federal land in the State in a manner inconsistentwith the 
     State management plan for a period, to be specified by the 
     Governor of the State, of not fewer than 5 years beginningon 
     the date on which the Governor provides the notification;
       (2) in the case of any State that provides notification 
     underparagraph (1), if any withdrawal was made, modified, or 
     extended, or if any amendment or modification of a Federal 
     resourcemanagement plan applicable to Federal land in the 
     State was issued during the 3-year period before the date on 
     which theGovernor provides the notification and the 
     withdrawal, amendment, or modification alters the management 
     of the greater sage-grouse or the habitat of the greater 
     sage-grouse--
       (A) staying the implementation and operation of the 
     withdrawal, amendment,or modification to the extent that the 
     withdrawal, amendment, or modification is inconsistent with 
     the State management plan;and
       (B) applying the Federal resource management plan (as in 
     effect immediately before the amendment or modification) 
     withrespect to the management of the greater sage-grouse and 
     the habitat of the greater sage-grouse, to the extent that 
     the Federalresource management plan is consistent with the 
     State management plan; and
       (3) the Governor of the affected State resolvingany 
     disagreement regarding whether a withdrawal of, or an 
     amendment or other modification to, a Federal resource 
     management planis inconsistent with a State management plan.
       (d) Description of Judicial Review.--The judicial review 
     referred to insubsection (a) is judicial review of the 
     requirements and implementation of this amendment, including 
     a determination made undersubsection (c)(3).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 152. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed byhim 
to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government forfiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lieon the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add thefollowing:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PROTECTINGCOMMUNITIES FROM DESTRUCTIVE 
                   OVERREACH BY THE DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND 
                   URBAN DEVELOPMENT.

       The Chairman of the Committee onthe Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels inthis resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conferencereports 
     relating to nullifying any regulation by the Department of 
     Housing and Urban Development that interferes with and 
     undulyburdens local zoning decisions, which may include the 
     rule entitled ``Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing'' (80 
     Fed. Reg.42272 (July 16, 2015)), by the amounts provided in 
     such legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would notraise new revenue and would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2017 through 2021 orthe period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 153. Mr. LEE submitted anamendment intended to be proposed by him 
to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget forthe United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of titleIII, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING 
                   TOPROHIBITING THE ARMING OF VETTED ELEMENTS OF 
                   THE SYRIAN OPPOSITION WITH SURFACE-TO-AIR 
                   WEAPON SYSTEMS.

       The Chairman of theCommittee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriatelevels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, orconference reports 
     relating to prohibiting the arming of appropriately vetted 
     elements of the Syrian opposition (as defined insection 1209 
     of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public 
     Law113-291; 128 Stat. 3541)) with surface-to-air weapon 
     systems, without raising new revenue by the amounts provided 
     in suchlegislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of thetotal of fiscal years 2017 through 2021 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 154. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him 
to the concurrent resolution S. Con.Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth theappropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 
2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title II, add the following:

     SEC.2003. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST INCREASING THE PUBLIC DEBT 
                   LIMIT THROUGH RECONCILIATION.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall notbe in order in the Senate 
     to consider a bill or joint resolution reported pursuant to 
     section 2001 or section 2002, or anamendment to, motion on, 
     conference report on, or amendment between the Houses in 
     relation to such a bill or joint resolution,which would 
     increase the public debt limit under section 3101 of title 
     31, United States Code, during the period of fiscal years2017 
     through 2026.
       (b) Waiver.--This section may be waived or suspended in the 
     Senate only by the affirmative vote oftwo-thirds of the 
     Members, duly chosen and sworn.
       (c) Appeals.--An affirmative vote of two-thirds of the 
     Members of theSenate, duly chosen and sworn, shall be 
     required to sustain an appeal of the ruling of the Chair on 
     the point of order raisedunder this section.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 155. Mr. LEE submitted an amendmentintended to be proposed by him 
to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for theUnited States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, addthe following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO HSA-
                   ELIGIBLEHEALTH PLANS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee orcommittees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, 
     amendments,amendments between the Houses, motions, or 
     conference reports relating to health savings account-
     eligible health plans by theamounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not raise new revenue and wouldnot increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2017 through 2021 or the period of the total offiscal 
     years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 156. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to beproposed by him 
to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United StatesGovernment for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which wasordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add thefollowing:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PREVENTING THEFEDERAL GOVERNMENT FROM PROVIDING 
                   ENHANCED FUNDING FOR ANY STATE'S EXPANSION OF 
                   THE MEDICAID PROGRAM.

       The Chairman of theCommittee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriatelevels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, orconference reports 
     relating to eliminating the enhanced Federal medical 
     assistance percentages for the Medicaid expansion addedby the 
     Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, without raising 
     new revenue, by the amounts provided in such legislation 
     forthose purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscalyears 2017 through 2021 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA157. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by

[[Page S290]]

him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, settingforth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetarylevels for fiscal years 
2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRALRESERVE FUND RELATING TO LABELING 
                   OF PRODUCTS AS MADE IN THE UNITED STATES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget ofthe Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this 
     resolutionfor one or more bills, joint resolutions, 
     amendments, amendments between the Houses, motions, or 
     conference reports relating tomaking exclusive the authority 
     of the Federal Government to regulate the labeling of 
     products made in the United States andintroduced in 
     interstate or foreign commerce by the amounts provided in 
     such legislation for those purposes, without raising 
     newrevenue, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2017through 2021 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 158. Mr.LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him 
to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth 
thecongressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal 
year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levelsfor fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRALRESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PROHIBITING THE EXPENDITURE OF AMOUNTS FROM THE 
                   LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION FUND UNTIL THE 
                   NATIONALPARK SERVICE MAINTENANCE BACKLOG IS 
                   REDUCED.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise theallocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills,joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to prohibiting amountsfrom the Land and Water 
     Conservation Fund established under section 200302 of title 
     54, United States Code, to be used for landacquisition until 
     the date on which the National Park Service maintenance 
     backlog is less than $5,000,000,000 by the amountsprovided in 
     such legislation for those purposes, without raising new 
     revenue, provided that such legislation would not increasethe 
     deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal years 
     2017 through 2021 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 159. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed byhim 
to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government forfiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lieon the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add thefollowing:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUNDS RELATING TO 
                   ASSISTINGWORKING FAMILIES AND CHILDREN.

       (a) Income Support.--The Chairman of the Committee on the 
     Budget of the Senate may revisethe allocations of a committee 
     or committees, aggregates, and other appropriate levels in 
     this resolution for one or more bills,joint resolutions, 
     amendments, amendments between the Houses, motions, or 
     conference reports relating to the Social ServicesBlock Grant 
     (SSBG), the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) 
     program, child support enforcement programs, or 
     otherassistance to working families, or to increase work 
     participation rates under TANF, without raising new revenue, 
     by the amountsprovided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either theperiod of the total of fiscal 
     years 2017 through 2021 or the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2017 through 2026.
       (b)Housing Assistance.--The Chairman of the Committee on 
     the Budget of the Senate may revise the allocations of a 
     committee orcommittees, aggregates, and other appropriate 
     levels in this resolution for one or more bills, joint 
     resolutions, amendments,amendments between the Houses, 
     motions, or conference reports relating to housing 
     assistance, which may include working familyrental 
     assistance, or assistance provided through the Housing Trust 
     Fund, or measures consolidating public housing authorities,or 
     measures to create or increase work requirements for Section 
     8 voucher and public housing assistance recipients, 
     withoutraising new revenue, by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would notincrease the deficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 2021 or the 
     period of the total of fiscalyears 2017 through 2026.
       (c) Child Welfare.--The Chairman of the Committee on the 
     Budget of the Senate may revise theallocations of a committee 
     or committees, aggregates, and other appropriate levels in 
     this resolution for one or more bills,joint resolutions, 
     amendments, amendments between the Houses, motions, or 
     conference reports relating to child welfare programs,which 
     may include the Federal foster care payment system, without 
     raising new revenue, by the amounts provided in 
     suchlegislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of thetotal of fiscal years 2017 through 2021 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 160. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him 
to the concurrent resolution S. Con.Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth theappropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 
2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; asfollows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3003. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO A 
                   COMPREHENSIVE REVIEW OF THE UNITED STATES 
                   GOVERNMENT'SPARTICIPATION IN AND FUNDING OF THE 
                   UNITED NATIONS AND UNITED NATIONS-AFFILIATED 
                   ORGANIZATIONS.

       The Chairman of theCommittee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriatelevels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, orconference reports 
     relating to a comprehensive review of the United States 
     Government's participation in and funding of theUnited 
     Nations and United Nations-affiliated organizations, by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes,provided that such legislation would not raise new 
     revenue and would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of thetotal of fiscal years 2017 through 2021 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 161. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him 
tothe concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscalyear 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on thetable; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PROHIBITING CERTAIN MODIFICATIONS OF 
                   THEAPPLICATION OF THE MILITARY SELECTIVE 
                   SERVICE ACT BY EXECUTIVE OR JUDICIAL ACTION.

       The Chairman of the Committee on theBudget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in thisresolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference 
     reportsrelating to prohibiting modification (whether by 
     executive or judicial action) of the application of the 
     Military SelectiveService Act (50 U.S.C. 3801 et seq.) in 
     order to require registration under that Act without regard 
     to gender unless suchregistration is expressly authorized by 
     an Act of Congress, without raising new revenue by the 
     amounts provided in suchlegislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of thetotal of fiscal years 2017 
     through 2021 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2017 
     through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 162. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him 
to the concurrent resolution S. Con.Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth theappropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 
2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO PAYMENTS 
                   IN LIEU OF TAXES.

       The Chairman of the Committee onthe Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels inthis resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conferencereports 
     relating to payments in lieu of taxes under chapter 69 of 
     title 31, United States Code, including funding the 
     paymentsin lieu of taxes program at levels roughly equivalent 
     to lost tax revenues due to the presence of Federal land, by 
     the amountsprovided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     without raising new revenue, provided that such legislation 
     would not increasethe deficit over either the period of the 
     total of fiscal years 2017 through 2021 or the period of the 
     total of fiscal years2017 through 2026.

[[Page S291]]

  

                                 ______
                                 
  SA 163. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to beproposed by him 
to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United StatesGovernment for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which wasordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add thefollowing:

     SEC. 3__. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   THEIMPLEMENTATION OF THE OAS REVITALIZATION AND 
                   REFORM STRATEGY.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     mayrevise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or morebills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     requiring the Secretary ofState to submit an annual written 
     report to Congress regarding the implementation of the 
     multiyear strategy required undersection 5 of the 
     Organization of American States Revitalization and Reform Act 
     of 2013 (22 U.S.C. 290q) and how the continuedinvolvement of 
     the United States in the Organization of American States 
     accomplishes explicit foreign policy objectives in 
     LatinAmerica, by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     raise newrevenue and would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 
     2021 or the periodof the total of fiscal years 2017 through 
     2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 164. Mr. LEE submitted an amendmentintended to be proposed by him 
to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for theUnited States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, addthe following:

     SEC. 3__. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO COMPILING 
                   AREPORT ON FEDERAL SPENDING IN FOREIGN NATIONS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise theallocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills,joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     requiring the Secretary of State tocompile and submit a 
     report to Congress on the aggregate expenditure of Federal 
     funds by all Federal agencies and other entitiescreated by 
     Congress on programs or projects in foreign nations, by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes,provided that such legislation would not raise new 
     revenue and would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of thetotal of fiscal years 2017 through 2021 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 165. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him 
to the concurrent resolution S. Con.Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth theappropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 
2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; asfollows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO THE 
                   REGULATION OF BROADBAND INTERNET ACCESSSERVICE.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or 
     committees,aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this 
     resolution for one or more bills, joint resolutions, 
     amendments, amendmentsbetween the Houses, motions, or 
     conference reports relating to the reclassification of 
     broadband Internet access service as aninformation service 
     and prohibiting the Federal Communications Commission from 
     imposing certain regulations on providers ofbroadband 
     Internet access service by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, without raising new 
     revenue,provided that such legislation would not increase the 
     deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal years 
     2017 through2021 or the period of the total of fiscal years 
     2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 166. Mr. LEEsubmitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him 
to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth 
thecongressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal 
year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levelsfor fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3003. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVEFUND RELATING TO 
                   PROHIBITING THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PARIS 
                   AGREEMENT.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of theSenate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     forone or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating toprohibiting the implementation of the Paris 
     Agreement, done at Paris December 12, 2015, by the amounts 
     provided in suchlegislation for those purposes, provided that 
     such legislation would not raise new revenue and would not 
     increase the deficitover either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2021 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2017 through2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 167. Mr. HELLER submitted an amendmentintended to be proposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for theUnited States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through2026; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   STRENGTHENING SOCIAL SECURITY OR REPEALING 
                   ANDREPLACING OBAMACARE.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee orcommittees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, 
     amendments,amendments between the Houses, motions, or 
     conference reports relating to strengthening Social Security 
     or repealing andreplacing Obamacare, which may include step-
     by-step health reforms providing access to quality, 
     affordable coverage for allAmericans, safeguarding consumer 
     protections, strengthening Medicare, and improving Medicaid, 
     without raising new revenue, bythe amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit overeither the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 2021 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 168. Mr. WYDEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to theconcurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal 
year2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on thetable; as 
follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT RAISES 
                   TAXES OR HEALTH COSTS FOR THE MIDDLE CLASSAND 
                   WORKING FAMILIES TO FUND TAX CUTS FOR 
                   MILLIONAIRES.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     toconsider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that 
     increases taxes,raises health insurance premiums, or leads to 
     higher out-of-pocket health care costs for the middle class 
     and working familieswhile reducing tax burdens for households 
     with incomes of $1,000,000 or more.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) maybe waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. Anaffirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal 
     ofthe ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 169. Mr.MENENDEZ (for himself, Ms. Warren, and Mrs. Gillibrand) 
submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him to theconcurrent 
resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which 
was ordered to lie on thetable; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO AVERTING 
                   THE MEDICAID FUNDING CLIFF IN PUERTORICO AND 
                   ENSURING STABLE MEDICAID FUNDING FOR PUERTO 
                   RICO'S MEDICAID PROGRAM.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget ofthe Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this 
     resolutionfor one or more bills, joint resolutions, 
     amendments, amendments between the Houses, motions, or 
     conference reports relating toaverting the impending Medicaid 
     funding cliff in Puerto Rico and ensuring stable Medicaid 
     funding for Puerto Rico's Medicaidprogram for the foreseeable 
     future by the amounts provided in such legislation for those 
     purposes, provided that suchlegislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal 
     years 2017 through 2021 or the periodof the total of fiscal 
     years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 170. Ms. DUCKWORTH submitted anamendment intended to be proposed 
by her to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget forthe United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and

[[Page S292]]

setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 
2018through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IV,add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST REDUCING MEDICAID 
                   COVERAGEFOR VETERANS.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution,motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report relating 
     to Medicaid unless the Director of theCongressional Budget 
     Office certifies that the legislation would not result in 1 
     or more veterans losing Medicaidcoverage.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote ofthree-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, dulychosen 
     and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of the 
     ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection(a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 171. Ms. DUCKWORTH submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
by her to theconcurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal 
year2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on thetable; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PRESERVING THE REQUIREMENT OF 
                   PROVIDINGLACTATION ROOMS AND REASONABLE BREAK 
                   TIME TO EMPLOYEES WHO ARE NURSING MOTHERS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budgetof the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in thisresolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference 
     reportsrelating to preserving the requirement under section 
     7(r) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 providing 
     lactation rooms andreasonable break time to employees who are 
     nursing mothers for one year after the child's birth by the 
     amounts provided in suchlegislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of thetotal of fiscal years 2017 
     through 2021 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2017 
     through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 172. Mr. SANDERS (for Ms. Klobuchar (for herself and Mr. Sanders)) 
proposed an amendment tothe concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, 
setting forth the congressional budget for the United States Government 
for fiscalyear 2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___.DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO LOWERING 
                   PRESCRIPTION DRUG PRICES FOR AMERICANS BY 
                   IMPORTING DRUGS FROM CANADA ANDOTHER COUNTRIES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee orcommittees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, 
     amendments,amendments between the Houses, motions, or 
     conference reports relating to lowering prescription drug 
     prices, including throughthe importation of safe and 
     affordable prescription drugs by American pharmacists, 
     wholesalers, and individuals with a validprescription from a 
     provider licensed to practice in the United States, by the 
     amounts provided in such legislation for thosepurposes, 
     provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 
     2017through 2021 or the period of the total of fiscal years 
     2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 173. Mr. ENZI (for Mr. Barrasso) proposed an amendment to the 
concurrentresolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the congressional 
budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 andsetting 
forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 
2026; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRALRESERVE FUND RELATING TO RURAL 
                   HEALTH AND REPEALING AND REPLACING OBAMACARE.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget ofthe Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this 
     resolutionfor one or more bills, joint resolutions, 
     amendments, amendments between the Houses, motions, or 
     conference reports relating tostrengthening Social Security 
     and repealing and replacing Obamacare, which may include 
     step-by-step reforms providing access toquality, affordable 
     coverage for all Americans, maintaining access to critical 
     rural health care services, and safeguardingconsumer 
     protections, without raising new revenue, by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     thatsuch legislation would not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 
     2021 or theperiod of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 
     2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 174. Mr. ALEXANDER submittedan amendment intended to be proposed 
by him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budgetfor the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018through 2026; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add thefollowing:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PERMITTINGIMPORTATION OF PRESCRIPTION DRUGS 
                   ONLY UNDER CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of theSenate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     forone or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating topermitting the importation of prescription drugs, 
     which may include certifying public health and safety, 
     strengthening SocialSecurity and Medicare, and improving 
     Medicaid, by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided thatsuch legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2021 or theperiod of the total of 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 175. Mr. WYDEN (for himself,Mr. Sanders, Mr. Brown, and Ms. 
Klobuchar) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him to 
theconcurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal 
year2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on thetable; as 
follows:

       Beginning on page 45, strike line 2 and all that follows 
     through page46, line 14 and insert the following:

     SEC. 2000. FINDINGS.

       Congress finds thefollowing:
       (1) Total annual drug spending in the United States is 
     projected to reach more than $500,000,000,000 by2018.
       (2) One out of five Americans age 19 to 64 cannot afford to 
     fill their prescriptions.
       (3) Spending on prescriptiondrugs in the United States grew 
     by 12 percent in 2014, faster than in any year since 2002.
       (4) Medicare part D drug spendingwas $90,000,000,000 in 
     2015, and is expected to increase to $216,000,000,000 by 
     2025.
       (5) Medicare part B drug spending alsomore than doubled 
     between 2005 and 2015, increasing from $9,000,000,000 in 2005 
     to $22,000,000,000 in 2015.
       (6) In 2014,prescription drug spending in Medicaid 
     increased by 24 percent.
       (7) During the Presidential campaign, the President-
     electsaid, "When it comes time to negotiate the cost of 
     drugs, we're going to negotiate like crazy, folks" and his 
     campaign websitesaid that, ``allowing consumers access to 
     imported, safe and dependable drugs from overseas will bring 
     more options toconsumers.''.
       (8) After being elected, the President-Elect said, ``I'm 
     going to bring down drug prices. I don't like what'shappened 
     with drug prices.''.
       (9) On January 11, 2017, the President-elect said, ``We 
     have to create new bidding proceduresfor the drug industry, 
     because they are getting away with murder.''.

     SEC. 2001.RECONCILIATION IN THE SENATE.

       (a) Committee on Finance.--The Committee on Finance of the 
     Senate shall report changes inlaws within its jurisdiction to 
     reduce the deficit by not less than $1,000,000,000 for the 
     period of fiscal years 2017 through2026.
       (b) Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.--
     The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensionsof the 
     Senate shall report changes in laws within its jurisdiction 
     to reduce the deficit by not less than $1,000,000,000 for 
     theperiod of fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
       (c) Requirement.--Changes in laws reported by such 
     Committees shall bring downthe price of drugs as promised by 
     the President-Elect.
       (d) Submissions.--In the Senate, not later than January 27, 
     2017,the Committees named in subsections (a) and (b) shall 
     submit their recommendations to the Committee on the Budget 
     of the Senate.Upon receiving all such recommendations, the 
     Committee on the Budget of the Senate shall report to the 
     Senate a reconciliationbill carrying out all such 
     recommendations without any substantive revision.

     SEC. 2002.RECONCILIATION IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.

       (a) Committee on Energy and Commerce.--The Committee on 
     Energy andCommerce of the House of Representatives shall 
     submit changes in laws within its jurisdiction to reduce the 
     deficit by not lessthan $1,000,000,000 for the period of 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
       (b) Committee on Ways and Means.--The Committee onWays and 
     Means of the House of Representatives shall submit changes in 
     laws within its jurisdiction to reduce the deficit by notless 
     than $1,000,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2017 
     through 2026.

[[Page S293]]

       (c) Requirement.--Changes in lawsreported by such 
     Committees shall bring down the price of drugs as promised by 
     the President-Elect.
       (d) Submissions.--Inthe House of Representatives, not later 
     than January 27, 2017, the committees named in subsections 
     (a) and (b) shall submittheir recommendations to the 
     Committee on the Budget of the House of Representatives to 
     carry out thissection.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 176. Mr. FLAKE submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to theconcurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal 
year2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___.DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO ENHANCING 
                   VETERANS HEALTH CARE, HOUSING, AND THE 
                   WORKFORCE OF THE DEPARTMENT OFVETERANS AFFAIRS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee orcommittees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, 
     amendments,amendments between the Houses, motions, or 
     conference reports relating to improving veterans' housing 
     and health care forveterans and their dependents, which may 
     include repealing Obamacare, facilitating medical facility 
     leases, reforming veteranshousing programs, and prohibiting 
     the Secretary of Veterans Affairs from employing individuals 
     who have been convicted of afelony and medical personnel who 
     have ever had their medical licenses or credentials revoked 
     or suspended, by the amountsprovided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation would not 
     increase the deficit over either theperiod of the total of 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2021 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2017 through2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 177. Mr. CORNYN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to theconcurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal 
year2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on thetable; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO LAW 
                   ENFORCEMENT, MENTAL HEALTH, AND OPIOIDABUSE.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or 
     committees,aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this 
     resolution for one or more bills, joint resolutions, 
     amendments, amendmentsbetween the Houses, motions, or 
     conference reports relating to law enforcement training, 
     mental health, and opioid abuse, whichmay include increasing 
     prevention, treatment, and recovery activities, veterans and 
     drug court reforms, and repealing andreplacing Obamacare, by 
     the amounts provided in such legislation for those purposes, 
     provided that such legislation would notincrease the deficit 
     over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2017 
     through 2021 or the period of the total of fiscalyears 2017 
     through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 178. Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and Mr. Sanders)submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by her to the concurrent resolution 
S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth thecongressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levelsfor fiscal years 2018 through 2026; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add thefollowing:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   LOWERINGPRESCRIPTION DRUG PRICES FOR AMERICANS 
                   BY IMPORTING DRUGS FROM CANADA.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of theSenate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     forone or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating tolowering prescription drug prices, including 
     through the importation of safe and affordable prescription 
     drugs from Canada byAmerican pharmacists, wholesalers, and 
     individuals with a valid prescription from a provider 
     licensed to practice in the UnitedStates, by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislation would not increase thedeficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 
     2021 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2017through 
     2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 179. Mr. HATCH submitted an amendmentintended to be proposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for theUnited States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through2026; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   PROTECTIONS FOR THE ELDERLY ANDDISABLED.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or 
     committees,aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this 
     resolution for one or more bills, joint resolutions, 
     amendments, amendmentsbetween the Houses, motions, or 
     conference reports relating to reforming housing and 
     Medicaid, which may include returning Stateregulation of 
     health insurance markets to the States, without raising new 
     revenue, by the amounts provided in such legislationfor those 
     purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase 
     the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscalyears 2017 through 2021 or the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA180. Mr. HATCH submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, settingforth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetarylevels for fiscal years 
2018 through 2026; as follows:

       At the end of title III, add thefollowing:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   STRENGTHENINGSOCIAL SECURITY AND REPEALING AND 
                   REPLACING OBAMACARE.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revisethe allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills,joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to strengthening SocialSecurity and repealing and 
     replacing Obamacare, which may include reforms that 
     strengthen Medicaid and the Children's HealthInsurance 
     Program without prioritizing able-bodied adults over the 
     disabled or children and lead to step-by-step 
     reformsproviding access to quality, affordable coverage for 
     all Americans, and safeguarding consumer protections, without 
     raising newrevenue, by the amounts provided in such 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase thedeficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 2021 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2017through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 181. Mr. BARRASSO submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
byhim to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government forfiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; asfollows:

       At the end of title III, add the following:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO 
                   STRENGTHENING SOCIAL SECURITY AND 
                   REPEALINGOBAMACARE.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee orcommittees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, 
     amendments,amendments between the Houses, motions, or 
     conference reports, relating to strengthening Social Security 
     and repealing andreplacing Obamacare, which may include step-
     by-step reforms providing access to quality, affordable 
     coverage for all Americans,including people with disabilities 
     and chronic conditions, and safeguarding consumer protections 
     such as a ban on lifetimelimits, by the amounts provided in 
     such legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase thedeficit over either the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 2021 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2017through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 182. Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr. Merkley, and Mr.Heinrich) 
submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him to the concurrent 
resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forththe congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetarylevels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

     SEC. ___. CRITERIA FORLIMITED ADJUSTMENT FOR WILDFIRE 
                   SUPPRESSION FUNDING.

       If a measure becomes law that amends the adjustments to 
     discretionaryspending limits established under section 251(b) 
     of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
     1985 (2 U.S.C.901(b)) to provide for wildfire suppression 
     funding, which may include criteria for making such an 
     adjustment, the Chairman ofthe Committee on the Budget of the 
     Senate may adjust the allocation called for in section 302(a) 
     of the Congressional Budget Actof 1974 (2 U.S.C. 633(a)) to 
     the appropriate committee or committees of the Senate, and 
     may adjust all other budgetaryaggregates, allocations, 
     levels, and

[[Page S294]]

     limits contained in this resolution, as necessary, consistent 
     with suchmeasure.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 183. Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr. Merkley, and Mr. 
Heinrich)submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him to the 
concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth thecongressional 
budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and 
setting forth the appropriate budgetary levelsfor fiscal years 2018 
through 2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

     SEC. ___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO CONSERVING 
                   FEDERAL LAND, ENHANCING ACCESS TO FEDERAL LAND 
                   FOR RECREATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES, ANDMAKING 
                   INVESTMENTS IN COUNTIES AND SCHOOLS.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise theallocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills,joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to Federal programs forland and water conservation 
     and acquisition or the preservation, restoration, or 
     protection of public land, oceans, coastalareas, or aquatic 
     ecosystems, making changes to or providing for the 
     reauthorization of the Secure Rural Schools and 
     CommunitySelf-Determination Act of 2000 (16 U.S.C. 7101 et 
     seq.), making changes to or providing for the reauthorization 
     of the paymentsin lieu of taxes program under chapter 69 of 
     title 31, United States Code, or making changes to or 
     providing for thereauthorization of both laws, by the amounts 
     provided in such legislation for those purposes, provided 
     that such legislationwould not increase the deficit over 
     either the period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 
     2021 or the period of the totalof fiscal years 2017 through 
     2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 184. Mrs. FISCHER submitted an amendment intendedto be proposed by 
her to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United StatesGovernment for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; asfollows:

       At the appropriate place, add the following:

     SEC. ___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO SOCIAL 
                   SECURITY OR WOMEN'S HEALTH.

       The Chairman of theCommittee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriatelevels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, orconference reports, 
     relating to strengthening Social Security or health care for 
     women, which may include strengtheningcommunity health 
     centers, and repealing and replacing the Patient Protection 
     and Affordable Care Act, by the amounts provided insuch 
     legislation for those purposes, provided that such 
     legislation would not increase the deficit over either the 
     period of thetotal of fiscal years 2017 through 2021 or the 
     period of the total of fiscal years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 185. Mr. WYDEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposedby 
him to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government forfiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lieon the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title III, add thefollowing:

     SEC. 3___. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO RELEASE 
                   OF TAXRETURNS OF THE PRESIDENT.

       The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
     may revise the allocations of acommittee or committees, 
     aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution 
     for one or more bills, joint resolutions,amendments, 
     amendments between the Houses, motions, or conference reports 
     relating to public disclosure of the individual taxreturns of 
     the President by the amounts provided in such legislation for 
     those purposes, provided that such legislation wouldnot 
     increase the deficit over either the period of the total of 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2021 or the period of the total 
     offiscal years 2017 through 2026.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 186. Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr. Udall, Mr.Carper, Ms. Hirono, and 
Mr. Blumenthal) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him 
to theconcurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal 
year2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered to lie on thetable; as 
follows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT SLASHES THE 
                   COMPENSATION OF INDIVIDUAL FEDERALEMPLOYEES.

       (a) Point of Order.--Subject to subsection (b), it shall 
     not be in order in the Senate to consider any bill,joint 
     resolution, motion, amendment, amendment between the Houses, 
     or conference report that directly reduces the compensationof 
     1 or more individual Federal employees.
       (b) Exclusion.--Subsection (a) shall not apply to a 
     provision of a bill,joint resolution, motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that 
     provides for the reduction of thecompensation of a Federal 
     employee based on conduct of the Federal employee that 
     prohibits or prevents another Federal employeefrom, or 
     penalizes another Federal employee for, communicating with 
     Congress.
       (c) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) maybe waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. Anaffirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal 
     ofthe ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 187. Mr.WYDEN (for himself and Mr. Sanders) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him to the concurrent resolution S.Con. Res. 
3, setting forth the congressional budget for the United States 
Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth theappropriate 
budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026; which was ordered 
to lie on the table; asfollows:

       At the end of title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT DOES NOT 
                   LOWER DRUG PRICES.

       (a) Findings.--The Senatefinds the following:
       (1) Total annual drug spending in the United States is 
     projected to reach more than $500,000,000,000 by2018.
       (2) One out of five Americans age 19 to 64 cannot afford to 
     fill their prescriptions.
       (3) Spending on prescriptiondrugs in the United States grew 
     by 12 percent in 2014, faster than in any year since 2002.
       (4) Medicare part D drug spendingwas $90,000,000,000 in 
     2015, and is expected to increase to $216,000,000,000 by 
     2025.
       (5) Medicare part B drug spending alsomore than doubled 
     between 2005 and 2015, increasing from $9,000,000,000 in 2005 
     to $22,000,000,000 in 2015.
       (6) In 2014,prescription drug spending in Medicaid 
     increased by 24 percent.
       (7) During the Presidential campaign, the President-
     electsaid, ``When it comes time to negotiate the cost of 
     drugs, we're going to negotiate like crazy, folks'' and his 
     campaign websitesaid that, ``allowing consumers access to 
     imported, safe and dependable drugs from overseas will bring 
     more options toconsumers.''.
       (8) After being elected, the President-elect said, ``I'm 
     going to bring down drug prices. I don't like what'shappened 
     with drug prices.''.
       (9) On January 11, 2017, the President-elect said, ``We 
     have to create new bidding proceduresfor the drug industry, 
     because they are getting away with murder.''.
       (b) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order inthe Senate 
     to consider a bill or joint resolution reported pursuant to 
     section 2001 or 2002, or an amendment to, motion 
     on,conference report on, or amendment between the Houses in 
     relation to such a bill or joint resolution that does not, as 
     promisedby the President-elect, lower drug prices as 
     certified by the Congressional Budget Office.
       (c) Waiver andAppeal.--Subsection (b) may be waived or 
     suspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members,duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall berequired to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (b).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 188. Mr. WYDEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the concurrent resolution S. Con.Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth theappropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 
2018 through 2026; as follows:

       At the endof title IV, add the following:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATIONTHAT DOES NOT 
                   LOWER DRUG PRICES.

       (a) Findings.--The Senate finds the following:
       (1) Total annual drug spending inthe United States is 
     projected to reach more than $500,000,000,000 by 2018.
       (2) One out of five Americans age 19 to 64cannot afford to 
     fill their prescriptions.
       (3) Spending on prescription drugs in the United States 
     grew by 12 percent in2014, faster than in any year since 
     2002.
       (4) Medicare part D drug spending was $90,000,000,000 in 
     2015, and is expected toincrease to $216,000,000,000 by 2025.
       (5) Medicare part B drug spending also more than doubled 
     between 2005 and 2015,increasing from $9,000,000,000 in 2005 
     to $22,000,000,000 in 2015.

[[Page S295]]

       (6) In 2014, prescription drug spending in 
     Medicaidincreased by 24 percent.
       (7) During the Presidential campaign, the President-elect 
     said, ``When it comes time to negotiatethe cost of drugs, 
     we're going to negotiate like crazy, folks'' and his campaign 
     website said that, ``allowing consumers accessto imported, 
     safe and dependable drugs from overseas will bring more 
     options to consumers.''.
       (8) After being elected, thePresident-elect said, ``I'm 
     going to bring down drug prices. I don't like what's happened 
     with drug prices.''.
       (9) OnJanuary 11, 2017, the President-elect said, ``We have 
     to create new bidding procedures for the drug industry, 
     because they aregetting away with murder.''.
       (b) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider a bill or jointresolution reported pursuant to 
     section 2001 or 2002, or an amendment to, motion on, 
     conference report on, or amendment betweenthe Houses in 
     relation to such a bill or joint resolution that does not, as 
     promised by the President-elect, lower drug prices,as 
     certified by the Congressional Budget Office.
       (c) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (b) may be waived or 
     suspended inthe Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-
     fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly 
     chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of 
     the ruling of the Chair ona point of order raised under 
     subsection (b).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 189. Ms. WARREN submitted an amendmentintended to be proposed by 
her to the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res. 3, setting forth the 
congressional budget for theUnited States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through2026; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of title IV, add thefollowing:

     SEC. 4__. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLATION THAT WOULD HAVE 
                   THEEFFECT OF NOT ALLOWING STATE GOVERNMENTS TO 
                   KEEP THEIR CURRENT HEALTH CARE PROTECTIONS AS 
                   ALLOWED BY THE PATIENT PROTECTION ANDAFFORDABLE 
                   CARE ACT.

       (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate 
     to consider any bill, joint resolution,motion, amendment, 
     amendment between the Houses, or conference report that would 
     have the effect of not allowing Stategovernments to keep 
     their current health care protections as allowed by the 
     Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, orreducing, 
     weakening, or eliminating health insurance coverage.
       (b) Waiver and Appeal.--Subsection (a) may be waived 
     orsuspended in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of 
     three-fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An 
     affirmative voteof three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, 
     duly chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal 
     of the ruling of theChair on a point of order raised under 
     subsection (a).

                          ____________________



