

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 42 (Friday, March 10, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 42 (Friday, March 10, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2024]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




     HONORING TOP SCHOOLS IN GEORGIA'S FIRST CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT

  (Mr. CARTER of Georgia asked and was given permission to address the 
House for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to acknowledge the 
academic accomplishments of several school systems in Georgia's First 
Congressional District.
  Niche is a website which analyzes data gathered from the Department 
of Education that focuses on academics, student life, test scores, and 
college enrollment. With this data, they rank each school system and 
help families find the best schools for their children.
  This year, Georgia's First District had the honor of placing 10 
school systems in their top 100 school districts in Georgia. It comes 
as no surprise to me that so many of these outstanding school districts 
made this great achievement.
  Camden County School District ranks as the top school system in the 
district and even cracked the top 10 for the State, ranking as the 
number 7 overall school system in Georgia. Camden County scored top 
marks in the categories of diversity, teachers, health and safety, 
administration, and sports.
  In addition to Camden County, I am proud to recognize, today, the 
other school districts to reach the top 100: Pierce County, Lowndes 
County, Ware County, Effingham County, Glynn County, Bryan County, 
Bacon County, Echols County, and Chatham County.
  Congratulations to each school's administration, teachers, and 
students whose hard work and dedication made this accomplishment 
possible.
  I look forward to the future success that will surely come from these 
schools.

                          ____________________



