

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 42 (Friday, March 10, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 42 (Friday, March 10, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2024-H2025]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        HONORING CHARLES GERACI

  (Mr. WENSTRUP asked and was given permission to address the House for 
1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. WENSTRUP. Mr. Speaker, a member of the Ohio Second District 
community passed away this week, and our Nation lost a hero.
  Charles Geraci was a beloved resident of Norwood, Ohio. He was known 
as a husband of 70\1/2\ years, grandfather to 31, and a great-
grandfather to 16.
  But he was also an American hero. Charles enlisted in the Army on 
December 10, 1942, and, after basic training, was stationed in England 
in 1943. Just a few months later Charles was in the second wave at 
Omaha Beach in Normandy, where he was wounded while storming the 
beaches. After recovering and being sent back to his unit, Charles was 
wounded by shrapnel and then shot again during combat. He was in 
Normandy for only 5 months and credits his survival to God.
  While his courage earned him three Purple Hearts and the Bronze Star 
Award, Charles refers to his service

[[Page H2025]]

during World War II with a deep humility that defines the Greatest 
Generation. He said: ``We were there to do the job, and we did it. And 
I came back.''
  Our country can never repay Charles for his service and sacrifice, 
but we can stand as a grateful nation to honor his life and legacy with 
our deepest respect.
  Our thoughts and prayers are with his wife, Helen, and the rest of 
the Geraci family.
  Truly, it is men and women like Charles Geraci whom we can credit for 
the gift of freedom that we are able to pass along to our children and 
grandchildren. They protected and preserved that gift with their very 
lives. For that, we remain eternally grateful.

                          ____________________



