

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 23 (Thursday, February 9, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 23 (Thursday, February 9, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1068]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




            UNANIMOUS CONSENT AGREEMENT--EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that 
notwithstanding rule XXII, following leader remarks on Monday February 
13, there be up to 7 hours of debate remaining on the Mnuchin 
nomination; and that following the disposition of the Mnuchin 
nomination, the Senate proceed to the consideration of the following 
nomination: Executive Calendar No. 17, David Shulkin to be Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs. I further ask unanimous consent that there be 10 
minutes of debate on the nomination, equally divided in the usual form, 
and that following the use or yielding back of time, the Senate vote on 
the nomination with no intervening action or debate; that if confirmed, 
the motion to reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table; 
the President be immediately notified of the Senate's action; that no 
further motions be in order; and that any statements relating to the 
nomination be printed in the Record; finally, that following leader 
remarks on Tuesday, February 14, the Senate proceed to the 
consideration of the following nomination: Executive Calendar No. 10, 
Linda McMahon to be Administrator of the Small Business Administration. 
I further ask unanimous consent that the time until 11 a.m. be equally 
divided in the usual form; and that following the use or yielding back 
of time, the Senate vote on the nomination with no intervening action 
or debate; that if confirmed, the motion to reconsider be considered 
made and laid upon the table; that the President be immediately 
notified of the Senate's action; that no further motions be in order; 
and that any statements relating to the nomination be printed in the 
Record.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
  Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The majority leader.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, the next vote will be the last vote of 
the evening, and we will be back voting Monday night.


                             CLOTURE MOTION

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant to rule XXII, the Chair lays before 
the Senate the pending cloture motion, which the clerk will state.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read as follows:

                             Cloture Motion

       We, the undersigned Senators, in accordance with the 
     provisions of rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the Senate, 
     do hereby move to bring to a close debate on the nomination 
     of Steven T. Mnuchin, of California, to be Secretary of the 
     Treasury.
         Mitch McConnell, Roger F. Wicker, John Boozman, Orrin G. 
           Hatch, Roy Blunt, John Cornyn, Steve Daines, Tim Scott, 
           John Hoeven, Michael B. Enzi, John Barrasso, John 
           Thune, Mike Rounds, Mike Crapo, James M. Inhofe, Joni 
           Ernst, Chuck Grassley.

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unanimous consent, the mandatory quorum 
call has been waived.
  The question is, Is it the sense of the Senate that debate on the 
nomination of Steven T. Mnuchin, of California, to be Secretary of the 
Treasury shall be brought to a close?
  The yeas and nays are mandatory under the rule.
  The clerk will call the roll.
  The bill clerk called the roll.
  Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the Senator from Missouri (Mrs. 
McCaskill) is necessarily absent.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there any other Senators in the Chamber 
desiring to vote?
  The yeas and nays resulted--yeas 53, nays 46, as follows:

                       [Rollcall Vote No. 62 Ex.]

                                YEAS--53

     Alexander
     Barrasso
     Blunt
     Boozman
     Burr
     Capito
     Cassidy
     Cochran
     Collins
     Corker
     Cornyn
     Cotton
     Crapo
     Cruz
     Daines
     Enzi
     Ernst
     Fischer
     Flake
     Gardner
     Graham
     Grassley
     Hatch
     Heller
     Hoeven
     Inhofe
     Isakson
     Johnson
     Kennedy
     Lankford
     Lee
     Manchin
     McCain
     McConnell
     Moran
     Murkowski
     Paul
     Perdue
     Portman
     Risch
     Roberts
     Rounds
     Rubio
     Sasse
     Scott
     Shelby
     Strange
     Sullivan
     Thune
     Tillis
     Toomey
     Wicker
     Young

                                NAYS--46

     Baldwin
     Bennet
     Blumenthal
     Booker
     Brown
     Cantwell
     Cardin
     Carper
     Casey
     Coons
     Cortez Masto
     Donnelly
     Duckworth
     Durbin
     Feinstein
     Franken
     Gillibrand
     Harris
     Hassan
     Heinrich
     Heitkamp
     Hirono
     Kaine
     King
     Klobuchar
     Leahy
     Markey
     Menendez
     Merkley
     Murphy
     Murray
     Nelson
     Peters
     Reed
     Sanders
     Schatz
     Schumer
     Shaheen
     Stabenow
     Tester
     Udall
     Van Hollen
     Warner
     Warren
     Whitehouse
     Wyden

                             NOT VOTING--1

      
     McCaskill
       
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this vote, the yeas are 53, the nays are 
46.
  The motion is agreed to.

                          ____________________



