

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 25 (Monday, February 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 25 (Monday, February 13, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1128]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   REMEMBERING ROBERT JUSTIN STEVENS

  Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today in fond memory of Robert 
Justin Stevens, a former staffer of mine who recently passed away--
entirely too young--after a long, arduous fight with cancer.
  Justin was exemplary in his desire to serve and his love for public 
policy and politics. He was a dedicated public servant who worked 
tirelessly to improve the lives of Americans. Over the last few years, 
Justin managed Federal policy and advocacy for homeland security, 
public safety, and military-related issues as legislative director with 
the National Governors Association.
  Before that, Justin worked with me, and later with Senator Scott 
Brown, as a professional staff member at the Senate Homeland Security 
and Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on Federal Financial Management, 
Government Information, Federal Services, and International Security. 
There, he helped us to identify and address waste, fraud, and abuse in 
government spending and financial improvement, audit readiness, and 
business transformation at our Federal agencies. During my 2008 
Presidential campaign, Justin served as a senior advance team lead. It 
was in that context that I was first introduced to Justin's boundless 
love of life and energy.
  Justin also served as the director for candidate operations and 
advance for the Scott Brown for Senate 2012 campaign; a financial 
systems analyst with the EMCOR Group; and a Navy/NASA university 
faculty fellowship program manager with the American Society for 
Engineering Education, ASEE.
  Justin never took his young life for granted. An avid runner and 
adventurous soul, Justin sought to improve himself by taking courses in 
furtherance of a master's in national security and strategic studies at 
the U.S. Naval War College, after having received a B.S. in business 
administration from the University of Florida and graduated East Lake 
High School. Also, unbowed by his continuing struggle with cancer and 
always filled with hope, Justin married the love of his life, 
Elizabeth.
  Justin will be forever remembered for the joy he brought to the lives 
of his family, friends, and colleagues with his humor, energy, and 
selflessness. Throughout his young life, Justin always made sure that 
those closest to him knew how important they were to him.
  Cindy and I extend our warmest condolences to Justin's wife, 
Elizabeth; his mother Jean Nowakowski; his stepmother Karen Stevens, 
with whom Justin was exceptionally close; his siblings Bryan and Damon; 
his niece Magdalena and nephew Jackson. Thank you.

                          ____________________



