

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 37 (Thursday, March 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 37 (Thursday, March 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1575]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          TRIBUTE TO TY LANTIS

 Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this week, I have the distinct 
honor of recognizing Ty Lantis, a distinguished Montana craftsman with 
deep roots along the Yellowstone Valley. Ty grew up not too far from 
where the Powder River joins the Yellowstone River. During his 
adolescent years, Ty's family operated a saw mill south of Terry. He 
grew up building barns, garages, sheds, and many other structures. It 
is no surprise that Ty learned to make good use of his own talents and 
Montana's abudance of trees in order to become a successful 
homebuilder.
  Shortly after graduating from Terry High School in Prairie County, Ty 
moved west along the Yellowstone Valley and started building homes in 
the Billings area. He helped build his first home when he was 19 years 
old. After a few more years of honing his craft, Ty teamed up with Greg 
Schmidt, and they launched their own company in 2003. Ty's Montana work 
ethic helped him to discover, develop, and deploy his talents in a way 
that literally helped to build a better community. In recent years, his 
company's craftsmanship has been honored in the Billings Parade of 
Homes, selected as the ``Builder of the Year'' in Billings, and 
recognized by the Yellowstone Valley People's Choice Award for 
homebuilding. In 2013, Ty's company built the house for the St. Jude 
Dream Home Giveaway, with the proceeds of this effort going to benefit 
children's medical research. The following year Ty served as the 
president of the Home Builders Association in Billings.
  Despite the positive recognition from the community and from others 
in his industry, Ty remains a humble man who doesn't seek the attention 
that comes with a job well done. Ty prefers to go about his business 
and do quality work, but ultimately the quality of Ty's work speaks for 
itself. Today is my chance to say a simple thank you to Ty for the work 
he has done and will continue to do to build a Montana that is a 
treasure to all of us.

                          ____________________



