

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 21 (Tuesday, February 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 21 (Tuesday, February 7, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H1059]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        PULL THE MUSLIM BAN DOWN

  (Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute and to revise and extend her remarks.)
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, let me again repeat my concern, when 
the United States is compared to the thuggish behavior of Russian 
leadership, the attempt to poison individuals who are activists and 
opponents to that kind of oppression.
  But I want to speak today to what is impacting our neighbors, Mr. 
Speaker, and that is the executive order that has been issued by the 
President of the United States. I want to dispel any myth that Members 
of this body who oppose the executive order are against security for 
this Nation.
  I am a years'-long member of the Homeland Security Committee, the 
Transportation Security Committee, the Border Security Committee, and 
work hard to write a stiff border security bill. But, frankly, this is 
a Muslim ban, and when a 17-year-old, 16-year-old from my community, 
from Jordan, was stopped and held for 48 hours and shipped to Chicago, 
that is a Muslim ban.
  What I say to those who have executed it is that you have to realize 
that the order that you tried to copy from President Obama was not the 
same. It was stringent review; it was not rejection. You are rejecting 
Muslims and allowing others.
  As a Christian, I know that Christians are not being subjected to the 
same kind of scrutiny. This is a Muslim ban. I ask the White House, as 
we go to court this evening: Why don't you reconsider and pull that 
Muslim ban down?

                          ____________________



