

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 50 (Wednesday, March 22, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 50 (Wednesday, March 22, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1934-S1935]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I have 9 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


           Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to hold a meeting during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 
22, 2017, at 10 a.m. in room 106 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building, 
to conduct a hearing on ``The Promises and Perils of Emerging 
Technologies for Cybersecurity.''


               Committee on Environment and Public Works

  The Committee on Environment and Public Works is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on March 22, 2017, at 10 a.m. in room 
406 of the Dirksen Senate office building.


                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 22, 2017 at 10 a.m., to hold 
a hearing entitled ``Flashing Red: The State of Global Humanitarian 
Affairs.''


          Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is authorized 
to meet, during the session of the Senate, to conduct a hearing 
entitled ``Nomination of Alex Acosta to serve as Secretary of Labor'' 
on Wednesday, March 22, 2017, at 9 a.m., in room 430 of the Dirksen 
Senate Office Building.


                     Committee on Homeland Security

  The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is 
authorized to meet during the session of

[[Page S1935]]

the Senate on Wednesday, March 22, 2017, at 10 a.m. to conduct a 
hearing titled ``Perspectives from the DHS Frontline: Evaluating 
Staffing Resources and Requirements.''


                       Committee on the Judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate, on March 22, 2017, at 9:30 a.m., in room SH-216 
of the Hart Senate Office Building, to continue a hearing entitled 
``The Nomination of the Honorable Neil M. Gorsuch.''


                     Committee on Veterans' Affairs

  The Committee on Veterans' Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 22, 2017, at 10 a.m., in room 
SD-G50 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building.


                        Subcommittee on Airland

  The Subcommittee on Airland of the Committee on Armed Services is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 
22, 2017, at 3:30 p.m.


     Subcommittee on Ocean, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and Coast Guard

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to hold a meeting during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 
22, 2017, at 2:30 p.m. in room 253 of the Russell Senate Office 
Building.

                          ____________________



