

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 50 (Wednesday, March 22, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 50 (Wednesday, March 22, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2333]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




         COMPOUNDING DEVASTATING CUTS AND ACCESS TO HEALTH CARE

  (Mr. SUOZZI asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.)
  Mr. SUOZZI. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to the Republicans' 
American Health Care Act and specifically the provision that purports 
to shift billions of Medicaid costs from New York's counties to the 
State.
  In addition to the AHCA's age tax, increasing premiums, and millions 
losing their insurance, this provision will compound the devastating 
cuts and leave countless New Yorkers without access to health care 
while decimating New York State's finances.
  This amendment requires the State to shoulder an additional $2.3 
billion on top of the $1 billion cut proposed in the AHCA. Meanwhile, 
this proposal excludes New York City and only gives New York State 2 
years to assume this burden.
  As a former mayor, county executive, and former chairman of the New 
York State Commission on Property Tax Relief, I understand that New 
York counties shoulder a larger share of the Medicaid burden than in 
any other State. Asking the State to relieve some of this burden from 
the counties that they bear from the Medicaid cost is a worthwhile idea 
that should be further explored, but in conjunction with State 
officials.
  The short turnaround time in the current proposal would cripple the 
State's budget, resulting in catastrophic cuts, and leaves countless 
New Yorkers without access to health care.
  Additionally, marrying this proposal to the misguided Republican AHCA 
plan and excluding New York City prevents bipartisan cooperation. 
Rushing this amendment without debate or full consideration of the 
consequences and without a plan for implementation will negate any 
positives.
  I call upon my Republican colleagues to work in a bipartisan manner 
on this critical issue.

                          ____________________



