

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H404-H428]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     COMMODITY END-USER RELIEF ACT


                             General Leave

  Mr. CONAWAY. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extendtheir remarks 
and to include extraneous material on H.R. 238.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois). Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman from Texas?
  There was no objection.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to House Resolution 40 and rule 
XVIII, the Chair declares the House in the Committee ofthe Whole House 
on the state of the Union for the consideration of the bill, H.R. 238.
  The Chair appoints the gentleman from Tennessee (Mr. Duncan) to 
preside over the Committee of the Whole.

                              {time}  1239


                     In the Committee of the Whole

  Accordingly, the House resolved itself into the Committee of the 
Whole

[[Page H405]]

House on the state of the Union for theconsideration of the bill (H.R. 
238) to reauthorize the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, to better 
protect futurescustomers, to provide end-users with market certainty, 
to make basic reforms to ensure transparency and accountability at 
theCommission, to help farmers, ranchers, and end-users manage risks, 
to help keep consumer costs low, and for other purposes, withMr. Duncan 
of Tennessee in the chair.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The CHAIR. Pursuant to the rule, the bill is considered read the 
first time.
  The gentleman from Texas (Mr. Conaway) and the gentleman from 
Minnesota (Mr. Peterson) each will control 30minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Texas.
  Mr. CONAWAY. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  I rise in support of H.R. 238, the Commodity End-User Relief Act.
  The Commodity End-User Relief Act is a bipartisan bill to reauthorize 
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, to makemuch-needed regulatory 
reforms, and, most importantly, to make statutory changes to protect 
end users and give them access tothe tools they need to manage their 
risks.
  Over the past 4 years, the House Committee on Agriculture has held 
almost two dozen hearings that have examined theCommission and have 
investigated the impacts of the Dodd-Frank Act on derivatives markets. 
Our witnesses, many of whom weremarket participants who were struggling 
to comply with burdensome rules and ambiguous portions of the 
underlying statute, wereconsistent in their call for relief. To address 
their concerns, H.R. 238 makes reforms that fall into three broad 
categories:customer protections, Commission reforms, and end-user 
relief.
  Title I of the bill protects customers and the margin funds they 
deposit at their Futures Commission Merchants by codifyingcritical 
changes made during the collapse and bankruptcies of MF Global and 
Peregrine Financial Group.
  Title II makes meaningful reforms to the operations of the Commission 
to improve the agency's deliberative process. In doingso, it also 
requires the Commission to conduct more thorough and robust cost-
benefit analysis to help get future rulemakingsright the first time. 
While the CFTC is already required to consider costs and benefits of 
the rules it proposes, its work hasbeen called into question by the 
CFTC's inspector general, who reported the Commission staff seemed to 
view the process as moreof a legal one than an economic one.
  End users are the businesses that provide Americans with food, 
clothing, transportation, electricity, heat, and much more.Companies 
that produce, consume, and transport the commodities that make modern 
life possible use futures and swaps markets toreduce the uncertainty 
that their businesses face. Farmers hedge their crops in the spring so 
they know what they will get paidin the fall. Utilities hedge the price 
of energy so they can charge customers at a steady rate. Manufacturers 
hedge the cost ofsteel, energy, and other inputs to lock in prices as 
they work to fill orders.
  The fact is that no end user played any part in the financial crisis, 
and no end user currently poses a systemic risk toU.S. derivative 
markets. Yet, as the Agriculture Committee heard in countless hours of 
testimony, today it is more difficult andmore expensive for them to 
manage their risks than it was for them 5 years ago. Some of these 
challenges are the result ofambiguities and oversights in the text of 
the Commodity Exchange Act, and some of them result from overzealous 
rulemakings bythe Commission itself.
  Today's legislation fixes statutory problems, like section 304, which 
amends the definition of ``financial entity'' toensure that some end 
users don't lose their clearing exemption simply because a hedging 
strategy makes up for losses in aphysical transaction; or like section 
315, which makes small changes to the swaps' core principles to align 
them withconventions in the swaps industry, rather than the futures 
industry, easing compliance burdens for these newly regulatedentities.
  It also fixes problems that have grown out of the CFTC's own 
rulemakings. For example, section 308 sets aside a Commissionrule that 
would automatically lower the transaction threshold triggering 
registration as a swap dealer. This costly, complexregistration process 
was intended for large financial institutions, but because this 
registration threshold was set arbitrarily,it has swept up some 
commodity firms as well.
  If the limits fall by 60 percent next year, it could sweep up to 100 
more firms into the reach of Dodd-Frank. H.R. 238 wouldfix the level at 
its current $8 billion unless the Commission proposes a new rule with 
evidence of a needed reduction.Similarly, section 313 exempts religious 
pension plans and university endowments from a new rule that requires 
them to registeras commodity pool operators simply because they use 
standardized hedging products.
  What H.R. 238 does not do is roll back a single core tenet of title 
VII of Dodd-Frank. It does not change the execution,clearing, 
margining, capital, or reporting frameworks set up by that Act.

                              {time}  1245

  In fact, not a single witness who appeared before the House Committee 
on Agriculture ever asked us to fundamentally upendthese principles. 
These are concepts that have been part of the swaps markets long before 
the financial reform happened. TheCommittee, the Commission, and the 
industry will continue to grapple with the details of these core 
tenets, seeking to providethe right mix of flexibility and oversight.
  Before I close, I would like to thank members of the Agriculture 
Committee who sat through all these hearings and all themarkups on this 
issue. Chairman Austin Scott and Ranking Member David Scott, two of my 
cosponsors on this legislation,have led most of the Committee's 
hearings on these issues, and they have done great work.
  Together, we have put forward a bipartisan bill that makes narrowly 
targeted changes to provide relief from regulatoryburdens on American 
businesses. The Commodity End-User Relief Act offers meaningful 
improvements for market participants withoutundermining the basic goals 
of title VII of Dodd-Frank, and it does so by providing the right 
relief to the right people.
  I urge support of the Commodity End-User Relief Act with all its 
amendments, and I include for the Record letters ofsupport from over 30 
groups.

                                         House of Representatives,


                               Committee onFinancial Services,

                                  Washington, DC, January 4, 2017.
     Hon. K. Michael Conaway,
     Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman Conaway: I am writing concerning H.R. 238, 
     the ``Customer Protectionand End-User Relief Act.''
       As a result of your having consulted with the Committee on 
     Financial Services concerningprovisions in the bill that fall 
     within our Rule X jurisdiction, I agree to forgo action on 
     the bill so that it may proceedexpeditiously to the House 
     Floor. The Committee on Financial Services takes this action 
     with our mutual understanding that, byforegoing consideration 
     of H.R. 238 at this time, we do not waive any jurisdiction 
     over the subject matter contained in this orsimilar 
     legislation, and that our Committee will be appropriately 
     consulted and involved as this or similar legislation 
     movesforward so that we may address any remaining issues that 
     fall within our Rule X jurisdiction. Our Committee also 
     reserves theright to seek appointment of an appropriate 
     number of conferees to any House-Senate conference involving 
     this or similarlegislation, and requests your support for any 
     such request.
       Finally, I would appreciate your response to this 
     letterconfirming this understanding with respect to H.R. 238 
     and would ask that a copy of our exchange of letters on this 
     matter beplaced in the Congressional Record during floor 
     consideration thereof.
           Sincerely,
                                                    JebHensarling,
     Chairman.
                                  ____

                                         House of Representatives,


                                     Committee on Agriculture,

                                   Washington, DC, January 4,2017.
     Hon. Jeb Hensarling,
     Chairman, Committee on Financial Services, Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman Hensarling: Thank you for your letter 
     regarding H.R. 238, ``Customer Protection and End-User 
     ReliefAct.'' I appreciate your support in bringing this 
     legislation before the House of Representatives, and 
     accordingly, understandthat the Committee on Financial 
     Services will forego action on the bill.
       The Committee on Agriculture concurs in the 
     mutualunderstanding that by foregoing

[[Page H406]]

     consideration of the bill at this time, the Committee on 
     Financial Services does not waiveany jurisdiction over the 
     subject matter contained in this bill or similar legislation 
     in the future. In addition, should aconference on this bill 
     be necessary, I would support your request to have the 
     Committee on Financial Services represented onthe conference 
     committee.
       I will insert copies of this exchange in the Congressional 
     Record during Floor consideration. Iappreciate your 
     cooperation regarding this legislation and look forward to 
     continuing to work the Committee on FinancialServices as this 
     bill moves through the legislative process.
           Sincerely,
                                                K. MichaelConaway,
     Chairman.
                                  ____



                                Congress of the United States,

                                  Washington, DC, January 6, 2017.
     Hon. K. MichaelConaway,
     Chairman, Committee on Agriculture, Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman Conaway: I writewith respect to H.R. 238, the 
     ``Commodity End-User Relief Act.'' As a result of your having 
     consulted with us on provisionswithin H.R. 238 that fall 
     within the Rule X jurisdiction of the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, I forego any further considerationof this bill so 
     that it may proceed expeditiously to the House floor for 
     consideration.
       The Judiciary Committee takes thisaction with our mutual 
     understanding that by foregoing consideration of H.R. 238 at 
     this time, we do not waive any jurisdictionover subject 
     matter contained in this or similar legislation and that our 
     committee will be appropriately consulted and involvedas this 
     bill or similar legislation moves forward so that we may 
     address any remaining issues in our jurisdiction. Our 
     committeealso reserves the right to seek appointment of an 
     appropriate number of conferees to any House-Senate 
     conference involving thisor similar legislation and asks that 
     you support any such request.
       I would appreciate a response to this letter confirmingthis 
     understanding with respect to H.R. 238 and would ask that a 
     copy of our exchange of letters on this matter be included 
     inthe Congressional Record during floor consideration of H.R. 
     238.
           Sincerely,
                                                    Bob Goodlatte,
     Chairman.
                                  ____

                                         House of Representatives,


                                     Committee on Agriculture,

                                   Washington, DC,January 4, 2017.
     Hon. Bob Goodlatte,
     Chairman, Committee on the Judiciary, Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman Goodlatte: Thank you for your letter 
     regarding H.R. 238, ``Customer Protection and End-User Relief 
     Act.''I appreciate your support in bringing this legislation 
     before the House of Representatives, and accordingly, 
     understand that theCommittee on the Judiciary will forego 
     action on the bill.
       The Committee on Agriculture concurs in the mutual 
     understandingthat by foregoing consideration of the bill at 
     this time, the Committee on the Judiciary does not waive any 
     jurisdiction overthe subject matter contained in this bill or 
     similar legislation in the future. In addition, should a 
     conference on this bill benecessary, I would support your 
     request to have the Committee on the Judiciary represented on 
     the conference committee.
       Iwill insert copies of this exchange in the Congressional 
     Record during Floor consideration. I appreciate your 
     cooperationregarding this legislation and look forward to 
     continuing to work the Committee on the Judiciary as this 
     bill moves through thelegislative process.
           Sincerely,
                                               K. Michael Conaway,
     Chairman.
                                  ____



        supportersof hr 238, the commodity end-user relief act:

       American Cotton Shippers Association, American FarmBureau 
     Federation, American Feed Industry Association, American Gas 
     Association (AGA), American Public Power Association 
     (APPA),American Soybean Association, Chamber of Commerce of 
     the United States of America, Church Alliance of Church 
     Benefits Programs,Commodity Markets Council, Edison Electric 
     Institute (EEI), Futures Industry Association (FIA), Grain 
     and Feed Association ofIllinois, International Swaps and 
     Derivative Association (ISDA), Kansas Grain and Feed 
     Association, Michigan Agri-BusinessAssociation, Michigan Bean 
     Shippers Association, National Association of Wheat Growers, 
     National Cattlemen's Beef Association
       National Corn Growers Association, National Cotton Council, 
     National Council of Farmer Cooperatives, National Grain and 
     FeedAssociation, National Milk Producers Federation, National 
     Pork Producers Council, National Rural Electric 
     CooperativesAssociation (NRECA), National Sorghum Producers, 
     Nebraska Grain and Feed Association, North American Millers 
     Association,Northeast Agribusiness and Feed Alliance, Ohio 
     AgriBusiness Association, SIFMA, South Dakota Grain and Feed 
     Association, TheJewish Federations of North America, USA 
     Rice, Wisconsin Agri-Business Association.
                                  ____

                                                  January 11,2017.
       Dear Member of the House of Representatives: The 
     undersigned organizations represent avery broad cross-section 
     of U.S. production agriculture and agribusiness. We urge you 
     to cast an affirmative vote on H.R. 238,the ``Commodity End-
     User Relief Act,'' when it moves to the floor for 
     consideration.
       This legislation contains a number ofimportant provisions 
     for agricultural and agribusiness hedgers who use futures and 
     swaps to manage their business and productionrisks. Some, but 
     certainly not all, of the bill's important provisions 
     include:
       Sections 101-103--Codify important customerprotections to 
     help prevent another MF Global situation.
       Section 104--Provides a permanent solution to the residual 
     interestproblem that would have put more customer funds at 
     risk--and potentially driven farmers, ranchers and small 
     hedgers out offutures markets--by forcing pre-margining of 
     their hedge accounts.
       Section 306--Relief from burdensome and 
     technologicallyinfeasible recordkeeping requirements in 
     commodity markets.
       Section 308--Requires the CFTC to conduct a study and issue 
     a rulebefore reducing the de minimis threshold for swap 
     dealer registration in order to make sure that doing so would 
     not harm marketliquidity and end-user access to markets.
       Section 311--Confirms the intent of Dodd-Frank that 
     anticipatory hedging isconsidered bona fide hedging activity.
       Thank you in advance for your support of this bill that is 
     so important to U.S.farmers, ranchers, hedgers and futures 
     customers.
           Sincerely,
       American Cotton Shippers Association, American Farm 
     BureauFederation, American Feed Industry Association, 
     American Soybean Association, Grain and Feed Association of 
     Illinois, KansasGrain and Feed Association, Michigan Agri-
     Business Association, Michigan Bean Shippers, National 
     Association of Wheat Growers,National Cattlemen's Beef 
     Association, National Corn Growers Association, National 
     Cotton Council.
       National Council of FarmerCooperatives, National Grain and 
     Feed Association, National Milk Producers Federation, 
     National Pork Producers Council, NationalSorghum Producers, 
     Nebraska Grain and Feed Association, North American Millers 
     Association, Northeast Agribusiness and FeedAlliance, Ohio 
     AgriBusiness Association, South Dakota Grain and Feed 
     Association, USA Rice, Wisconsin Agri-BusinessAssociation.
                                  ____



                                     American Gas Association,

                                   Washington, DC,January 9, 2017.
     Hon. Mike Conaway,
     Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
     House of Representatives, Washington,DC.
       Dear Chairman Conaway: The American Gas Association (AGA) 
     supports the Commodity End-UserRelief Act (H.R. 238), a bill 
     to reauthorize the Commodity Exchange Act (CEA) that would 
     improve Commodity Future TradingCommission (CFTC) operations 
     and provide much-needed marketplace certainty and regulatory 
     relief for natural gas utilities andthe American homes and 
     businesses to which they deliver natural gas.
       The American Gas Association (AGA), founded in 
     1918,represents more than 200 local energy companies that 
     deliver clean natural gas throughout the United States. There 
     are more than72 million residential, commercial and 
     industrial natural gas customers in the U.S., of which 95 
     percent--just under 69 millioncustomers--receive their gas 
     from AGA members. AGA is an advocate for natural gas utility 
     companies and their customers andprovides a broad range of 
     programs and services for member natural gas pipelines, 
     marketers, gatherers, international naturalgas companies and 
     industry associates. Today, natural gas meets more than one-
     fourth of the United States' energy needs.
       H.R.238 will benefit our industry by exempting end-user 
     physical contracts from ``swaps'' and ``options'' regulation 
     more applicableto sophisticated financial derivative 
     transactions. Specifically, HR 238 would clarify that 
     contracts containing delivery termswith volumetric 
     optionality, but intended to result in the physical delivery 
     of natural gas, will not be treated by the CFTC asswaps. 
     Currently, the CFTC has provided some guidance on how 
     physical natural gas contracts with volumetric optionality 
     are tobe reviewed for regulatory treatment, but considerable 
     confusion and uncertainty still exists. This uncertainty has 
     causedconcern regarding the impact on the willingness of gas 
     suppliers to offer flexible delivery volume terms, leaving 
     gas utilitieswith fewer delivery options and more expensive 
     contracts--costs ultimately passed to the consumer. HR 238 
     provides neededregulatory certainty to the physical natural 
     gas marketplace, as requested by AGA and other industry 
     stakeholders for severalyears.
       H.R. 238 will also help the CFTC become a more responsive 
     and well-equipped regulator by subjecting its rulemakings 
     toadministrative process reforms and judicial review. Current 
     CFTC administrative rulemaking procedures are vague and 
     provideinsufficient avenues for the public to participate in 
     and seek guidance on rulemakings. This bill would require the 
     CFTC tocomply with the Administrative Procedures Act to 
     ensure public notice-and-comment on rules or guidance that 
     have legally-bindingeffects.
       Finally, H.R. 238 would allow the federal appellate courts 
     to directly review CFTC

[[Page H407]]

     rules, replacing theprotracted and expensive trial court 
     process currently in effect as the default rule for judicial 
     review. This change will notincrease litigation nor will it 
     disrupt the CFTC. Rather, it will incentivize the CFTC to 
     write better rules and avoid challengealtogether. Also, any 
     inevitable legal challenges will be more swiftly decided by 
     appellate courts, benefitting the regulatorand the regulated 
     community. All of the key federal rulemaking agencies are 
     subject to direct appellate review--including theSecurities 
     Exchange Commission and Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. 
     There is no logical justification to treat the 
     CFTCdifferently.
       Congress certainly did not intend to provide the CFTC a 
     large new regulatory mandate without giving it thenecessary 
     guidance and authority to do its job. Furthermore, Congress 
     did not intend for the CEA to constrain liquidity in 
     thephysical natural gas marketplace, create business-changing 
     impacts on regulated natural gas utilities, or increase the 
     costs ofreliable service for natural gas consumers. As such, 
     AGA supports the Commodity End-User Relief Act because it 
     provides the CFTCwith the tools necessary to be a responsive 
     regulator and restores the regulatory confidence that natural 
     gas utilities rely onto procure natural gas supplies at the 
     lowest reasonable cost for the benefit of America's natural 
     gasconsumers.
           Sincerely,

                                                  George Lowe,

                                  Vice President, Federal Affairs,
     American Gas Association.
                                  ____

                                American Public PowerTM


                                                  Association,

                                   Arlington, VA,January 10, 2017.
     Hon. K. Michael Conaway,
     Hon. Collin C. Peterson,
     Committee on Agriculture, House ofRepresentatives, 
         Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman Conaway and Ranking Member Peterson: On 
     behalf ofthe American Public Power Association (APPA), I am 
     writing in support of H.R. 238, the Commodity End-User Relief 
     Act (CERA) of2017. The legislation includes important relief 
     for public power utilities and other end-users seeking to use 
     swaps to hedgecommercial-operations risks.
       Community-owned, not-for-profit public power utilities 
     power homes and businesses in 2,000communities --from small 
     towns to large cities. They safely provide reliable, low-cost 
     electricity to more than 49 millionAmericans, while 
     protecting the environment. These utilities generate or buy 
     electricity from diverse sources. They employ93,000 people 
     and earn $58 billion in revenue each year. Public power 
     supports local commerce and jobs and invests back into 
     thecommunity.
       Public power utilities use swaps, options, forward 
     contracts and other tools to manage commercial 
     operationsrisks. As not-for-profit entities, their goal is to 
     provide affordable and reliable power to customers. APPA 
     supports the marketclarity and oversight provided by the 
     Commodity Exchange Act (CEA), and supports appropriately 
     funding the Commodity FuturesTrading Commission (CFTC). To 
     date, however, implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act 
     amendments to the CEA shows clear short-comings.
       CERA would address these concerns, for example, by 
     codifying CFTC rules allowing public power utilities to 
     enterswaps with the full array of counterparties to swaps 
     needed to hedge their commercial operations risks. CERA would 
     also addressissues related to the definition of ``bona fide 
     hedging,'' swap reporting in illiquid markets, and forward 
     contracts withvolumetric optionality. These provisions would 
     help public power utilities and other commercial end users.
       On the whole, webelieve these provisions will ensure that 
     public power utilities can continue to make full use of 
     financial tools necessary tokeep electric power prices stable 
     and affordable to our customers.
       Thank for your time andconsideration.
           Sincerely,
                                                   Susan N. Kelly,
     President & CEO.
                                  ____

                                        Chamber of Commerce of The


                                      United States ofAmerica,

                                 Washington, DC, January 11, 2017.
       To the Members of the U.S. House of Representatives:The 
     U.S. Chamber of Commerce strongly supports H.R. 238, the 
     ``Commodity End-User Relief Act.'' H.R. 238 would reauthorize 
     theCommodity Futures Trading Commission (``CFTC'') and enact 
     a number of important reforms to provide regulatory relief 
     for endusers of the derivatives market. It would also promote 
     accountability at the CFTC and protect Main Street businesses 
     fromonerous and unintended consequences of derivatives 
     regulation.
       The Chamber supports several amendments being offered to 
     H.R.238. Specifically, the Chamber supports Congressman 
     Lucas' amendment to provide relief to Main Street businesses 
     by clarifyingthe treatment of interaffiliate swaps. The 
     amendment would drive down the cost of using derivatives by 
     end-users and help MainStreet businesses employ safe and 
     effective risk management strategies on a more cost-effective 
     basis.
       The Chamber alsosupports the amendment sponsored by 
     Congressman Duffy and Congressman Scott to clarify that the 
     CFTC shall not have theauthority to access proprietary source 
     code without a subpoena. Their amendment would protect highly 
     sensitive intellectualproperty, which would respect 
     established due process rights and ensure that proprietary 
     source code does not fall into thewrong hands as a result of 
     a cyberattack or wrongdoing.
       Finally, as the bill moves forward, the Chamber urges 
     considerationof how best to address the cross-border 
     regulation of derivatives. We strongly believe that H.R. 238 
     should appropriatelyreflect the potential impact of punitive 
     or excessive cross-border rules on Main Street businesses 
     seeking to prudently hedgetheir commercial and market risks, 
     both in the U.S. and abroad. We look forward to continuing to 
     work with the sponsors of H.R.238 on this issue as the bill 
     moves forward.
       The Chamber commends the House of Representatives for 
     prioritizing regulatoryreform in the 115th Congress and urges 
     the House to approve H.R. 238 and the amendments listed above 
     as expeditiously aspossible.
           Sincerely,
     Jack Howard.
                                  ____



                                               ChurchAlliance,

                                                  January 9, 2017.
                                             Hon. Michael Conaway,
     Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
     House of Representatives,Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman Conaway: On behalf of the Church Alliance, I 
     write to thank you foryour leadership on H.R. 238, the 
     ``Commodity End-User Relief Act.''
       The Church Alliance is a coalition of the chief 
     executiveofficers of 37 church benefit programs. It includes 
     mainline Protestant denominations, two branches of Judaism, 
     and Catholicdioceses, schools and institutions. The benefit 
     programs (``church plans'') provide retirement and health 
     benefits to more than1 million clergy, lay workers, and their 
     family members.
       H.R. 238 contains a provision expanding the church plan 
     exemptionfrom the commodity pool operator (``CPO'') and 
     commodity trading advisor (``CTA'') rules under the Commodity 
     Exchange Act(``CEA'') to include church plan-related 
     accounts, such as endowments or foundations of churches and 
     church-controllednonprofits. The provision was included by a 
     bipartisan, broadly-supported amendment during the House 
     Agriculture Committee'sconsideration of CFTC reauthorization 
     legislation in the 114th Congress.
       Under current law, church plans are generally exemptfrom 
     the CPO and CTA requirements; however, the exemption does not 
     include church plan-related accounts. Church benefits 
     boardsoften use investment managers or advisers that engage 
     in commodities transactions for the purposes of 
     diversification andhedging. Church benefits boards also have 
     the ability to pool plan assets with other church-related 
     funds purely for investmentmanagement purposes for the 
     benefit of the church. This reduces investment fees for 
     church-related entities, as well as benefitplan participants 
     by providing economies of scale.
       In contrast to the CEA and implementing regulations, the 
     securities lawscontain necessary exemptions for church plans 
     and church plan-related accounts for the same reason noted 
     above. Under theselaws, church plans are not required to 
     register or report as investment companies, register 
     securities held, or discloseinformation about the securities 
     they hold.
       H.R. 238 similarly exempts church plans and church plan-
     related accounts from thecommodity pool definition and from 
     CTA registration requirements. The exemptions would provide 
     parity between securities andcommodities laws concerning 
     church plans and church plan-related accounts. Additionally, 
     the exemptions would reduce the cost tochurch plans and would 
     ensure they have the full benefit of commodities investments 
     that provide diversification, opportunitiesto hedge, and 
     returns. The ultimate benefit would be to clergy and church 
     lay worker participants in the retirement and welfareplans, 
     who have devoted their lives to the work of the church.
       We respectfully urge the enactment of CFTC 
     reauthorizationlegislation which includes much-needed relief 
     for church plans and church-plan related accounts from the 
     CPO and CTArequirements, along the lines of H.R. 238, as soon 
     as possible. Thank you for your leadership and support on 
     this importantissue.
           Sincerely yours,
     Barbara A. Boigegrain.
                                  ____



                                     Commodity MarketsCouncil,

                                  Washington, DC, January 9, 2017.
     Chairman Mike Conaway,
     House Committee on Agriculture,
     Washington,DC.
       Dear Chairman Conaway: We, the Commodity Markets Council 
     (CMC), write in support of H.R. 238,a bill to reauthorize the 
     Commodity Futures Trading Commission (``CFTC'').
       CMC is a trade association that brings togetherexchanges 
     and their industry counterparts. Its members include 
     commercial end-users that utilize the futures and swaps 
     marketsfor agriculture, energy, metal, and soft commodities. 
     Its industry member firms also include regular users and 
     members of swapexecution facilities (each, a ``SEF'') as well 
     as designated contract markets (each, a ``DCM''), such as the 
     Chicago Board ofTrade, Chicago Mercantile Exchange, ICE 
     Futures US, Minneapolis Grain Exchange, NASDAQ

[[Page H408]]

     Futures, and the New YorkMercantile Exchange. Along with 
     these market participants, CMC members also include regulated 
     derivatives exchanges.
       Thebusinesses of all CMC members depend upon the efficient 
     and competitive functioning of the risk management products 
     traded onDCMs, SEFs, and over-the-counter (``OTC'') markets. 
     As a result, CMC is well-positioned to provide a consensus 
     view ofcommercial end-users on the impact of the Commission's 
     proposed regulations on derivatives markets. Its comments, 
     however,represent the collective view of CMC's members, 
     including end-users, intermediaries, exchanges, and benchmark 
     providers.
       CMCurges you to support this legislation to reauthorize the 
     CFTC because the bill contains clarifications similar to 
     those in H.R.2289, the Commodity End-User Relief Act, from 
     the last Congressional session (114th Congress), which passed 
     the HouseAgriculture Committee and the U.S. House of 
     Representatives with bipartisan support. We believe the 
     provisions in thislegislation would go a long way to 
     addressing the unintended consequences Main Street businesses 
     have suffered as a result ofderivatives regulation intended 
     for Wall Street.
       Many of the fixes in this legislation are urgently needed 
     to stop upcominginitiatives that will greatly harm end-users 
     and drastically reduce the economic efficiency of hedges. 
     Although the CFTC hasrecently made great strides in 
     addressing end-users' concerns, some of the remedies needed 
     can only be addressed byCongress.
       We respectfully request your support for these non-
     controversial fixes that are of such importance to end-
     users.Thank you for your consideration and your continued 
     leadership.
           Sincerely,
                                                       Gregg Doud,
     President, CommodityMarkets Council.
                                  ____



                                    Edison Electric Institute,

                                                  January 9, 2017.
     Hon. Paul Ryan,
     Speaker, House ofRepresentatives,
     Washington, DC.
     Hon. Michael Conaway,
     Chairman, House Agriculture Committee, House 
         ofRepresentatives, Washington, DC.
     Hon. Nancy Pelosi,
     Minority Leader, House of Representatives,
     Washington,DC.
     Hon. Collin Peterson,
     Ranking Member, House Agriculture Committee, House of 
         Representatives, Washington,DC.
       Dear Speaker Ryan, Leader Pelosi, Chairman Conaway, and 
     Ranking Member Peterson: On behalf ofthe member companies of 
     the Edison Electric Institute (EEI), I want to express our 
     strong support for H.R. 238, the CommodityEnd-User Relief 
     Act. Key provisions in the legislation provide additional 
     certainty and clarify congressional intent on a numberof 
     issues of significant importance to EEI members.
       EEI is the association of U.S. investor-owned electric 
     companies. EEI'smembers provide electricity for 220 million 
     Americans, operate in all 50 states and the District of 
     Columbia, and directly andindirectly create jobs for more 
     than 1 million Americans. With more than $100 billion in 
     annual capital expenditures, theelectric power industry is 
     responsible for providing safe, reliable, affordable, and 
     sustainable electricity that powers theeconomy and enhances 
     the lives of all Americans.
       EEI members are non-financial entities that participate in 
     the physicalcommodity market and rely on swaps and futures 
     contracts primarily to hedge and mitigate their commercial 
     risk. The goal of ourmember companies is to provide their 
     customers with reliable electric service at affordable and 
     stable rates, which has a directand significant impact on 
     literally every area of the U.S. economy. Since wholesale 
     electricity and natural gas historicallyhave been two of the 
     most volatile commodity groups, our member companies place a 
     strong emphasis on managing the pricevolatility inherent in 
     these wholesale commodity markets to the benefit of their 
     customers. The derivatives market has proven tobe an 
     extremely effective tool in insulating our customers from 
     this risk and price volatility. In sum, our members are 
     thequintessential commercial end-users of swaps.
       As such, regulations that make effective risk management 
     options more costlyfor end-users of swaps will likely result 
     in higher and more volatile energy prices for retail, 
     commercial, and industrialcustomers. H.R. 238 goes a long way 
     in providing much needed regulatory relief and even greater 
     clarity to the compliancelandscape facing EEI and the entire 
     end-user community going forward.
       Thank you for your leadership on these importantissues. We 
     look forward to working with you to advance this legislation 
     through the House.
           Sincerely,
                                                    Thomas R.Kuhn.

  Mr. CONAWAY. Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. PETERSON. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  I rise in opposition to this bill. The bill last Congress went too 
far; and the one in this Congress, in my opinion, isgoing too far as 
well. The Commission, in my opinion, just needs a simple 
reauthorization. I urge Members to consider this whendeciding how to 
vote on the amendments that will be debated here on the floor.
  Title II actually makes it more difficult for the Commission to 
function, and I am also concerned that title III's cross-border 
rulemaking mandate will result in a race to the bottom for 
multinational banks in the swaps market, which is a globalmarket.
  On top of that, this bill caps the agency's yearly budget at $250 
million for the next 5 years, and it does this when everysingle witness 
before the Agriculture Committee last year told us that the agency 
needs more resources to do its work. Well,maybe that is the whole 
point--that this bill will leave the agency to not doing much, and I 
think that would be a mistake. Wetried that once before, and we found 
ourselves in a real mess.
  Since we last discussed reauthorization, the market situation has 
changed, and the CFTC has addressed many of our concernsthrough 
rulemaking. Yet, the Agriculture Committee wasn't given the chance to 
consider these issues before the bill was rushedto the floor here 
today. So we are moving forward, once again, without regular order.
  Again, I oppose this bill and urge my colleagues to vote ``no.''
  I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. CONAWAY. Mr. Chairman, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from 
Arkansas (Mr. Crawford), who is the subcommitteechairman for the 
General Farm Commodities and Risk Management Subcommittee.
  Mr. CRAWFORD. Mr. Chairman, 5 years of bipartisan committee work has 
contributed to the drafting of H.R. 238, the CommodityEnd-User Relief 
Act. It is time we passed it for the sake of businesses across the 
United States who need greater certainty inmanaging their risk.
  In advance of writing this legislation to reauthorize the CFTC, the 
House Committee on Agriculture held 22 hearings on thefuture of the 
Commission and the state of the derivatives industry. I mention the 
number 22 to highlight how extensive the datacollection and 
deliberation has been.
  To make this reauthorization as complete and thorough as possible, 
those 22 hearings collected feedback and testimony fromevery segment of 
the futures and swaps markets, from end users to regulators. We have 
used the testimony to draft legislationthat will make derivatives 
markets work better for those who need them most: businesses trying to 
manage their risk.
  But not only is this reauthorization language exhaustively 
researched, it has also already been approved by this Chambermultiple 
times, starting in the 113th Congress.
  In the 113th Congress, the Committee completed H.R. 4413, which 
passed the House with strong bipartisan support. In the114th Congress, 
we put forward the Commodity End-User Relief Act of 2015, which was 
very similar to H.R. 4413, and also passedthe House with support from 
both parties. Now, not only is H.R. 238 virtually identical to the 
reauthorization bill, whichpassed the House last Congress, H.R. 238 
also includes the amendments that were adopted on the House floor 
during debate.
  I will turn my focus toward the people that this tested and proven 
language will help, largely end users. Although end usersare not 
investors, speculators, or risk takers, they have borne the brunt of 
many of the consequences of new regulations.
  Derivatives are used by a huge swath of businesses for risk 
management purposes, including manufacturers, farmers, ranchers,and 
other businesses that buy or sell products overseas, pension funds, 
insurance companies, and others who face risks that theprices for their 
business inputs and outputs frequently fluctuate.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to support this long overdue 
legislation.
  Mr. PETERSON. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
the Virgin Islands (Ms. Plaskett).
  Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Chairman, I rise today to speak in opposition to 
H.R. 238 and express my concerns with the process and theneed for this 
legislation at this time.
  As we all know, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission is an 
independent Federal regulatory agency that, after the 2008financial 
crisis, took on more responsibility to bring

[[Page H409]]

greater transparency and oversight to the multihundred-trillion-dollar 
derivatives market.
  This new bill, H.R. 238, has new mandates and steps in it which will 
force the Commodity Futures Trading Commission toredirect funding from 
its core mission to satisfy some of the new mandates within this rule.
  H.R. 238 sets a flat reauthorization level of $250 million per year 
for the next 5 years, despite the annual average budgetrequests of the 
agency of well over $300 million since passage of Dodd-Frank. Freezing 
the funding level makes the new rulesalmost impossible to enforce. 
While we understand the need for the end users, the work of this group 
must go forward.
  This punitive level effectively caps the CFTC budget and is a 
substantial departure from past reauthorization languageproviding for 
such funding as may be necessary for CFTC to carry out its expanded 
authorities under Dodd-Frank.
  H.R. 238 will make it more difficult for CFTC to function and stifles 
its ability to respond quickly to the rapidly changingmarkets it 
regulates.
  I thank Chairman Conaway for having allowed us in the last Congress 
to have many hearings and discussions about thisbill; but we have not 
even, as a matter, organized the Agriculture Committee in the 115th 
Congress to bring this matter to thefloor at this time. Therefore, the 
substance of the bill, as well as the process by which it is coming to 
this floor, are to bequestioned at this time.
  I urge my colleagues to vote against the bill.
  Mr. CONAWAY. Mr. Chairman, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from 
Illinois (Mr. Davis), who is the subcommitteechairman for the 
Subcommittee on Biotechnology, Horticulture, and Research.
  Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in strong 
support of this legislation.
  Farming is an inherently risky business. Yet, I am incredibly 
grateful to the farmers in my district and across the countrywho 
proudly take on these risks in order to provide our country and many 
countries across this globe with a sustainable,abundant food supply. 
Given the importance of agriculture to our Nation's food supply, it 
makes sense to provide farmers,agribusinesses, and manufacturers the 
tools to hedge the risks that come with doing their business.
  Because of the risks of price movements in commodities, such as corn 
and soybeans, these end users use derivatives to ensurethey and their 
customers aren't negatively impacted by sudden price changes.
  This legislation reauthorizes the CFTC, which has been without a 
statutory authorization for almost 4 years. That isunacceptable, Mr. 
Chairman. If we are serious about getting back to regular order in 
regards to the appropriations process, theauthorizing committees must 
hold up their end of the bargain.
  The derivatives industry has been through major reforms during the 
past few years. This legislation recognizes andappreciates the 
transformation of this industry while providing Congress with an 
opportunity to use the reauthorization processas a means to improve the 
regulatory environment and the impact it has on responsible market 
participants.
  In that vein, this legislation also includes an amendment I offered 
at the Committee that would remove unnecessary andduplicative 
regulations created by the CFTC that requires certain registered 
investment companies, such as mutual funds, to beregulated by both the 
SEC and the CFTC.
  Costly, burdensome, redundant regulations have real-world impacts. 
Congress needs to shift its focus back to policies thatpromote strong 
and healthy markets. This is a great start.
  Mr. Chairman, I am proud of the Committee's work on this bill. I want 
to express my appreciation for Chairman Conaway'sleadership and work to 
get us here.
  This is an important bill, and I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes.''
  Mr. PETERSON. Mr. Chairman, I yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from 
Massachusetts (Mr. McGovern).
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong opposition to H.R. 238, 
legislation to reauthorize the Commodity FuturesTrading Commission, 
better known as the CFTC. Instead of working through regular order to 
produce an authorization bill thatboth Democrats and Republicans could 
have supported, the majority in this House rushed to the floor a deeply 
flawed piece oflegislation that hamstrings the CFTC and undermines its 
ability to react to changing market conditions.
  The burdensome requirements in this legislation and the lack of 
appropriate funding are nothing more than a misguidedattempt by 
Republicans to make it more difficult for the Commission to function--
to make it harder to protect consumers and makeit more difficult to 
rein in the abuses of Wall Street.
  I strongly object to the authorization level in this legislation. 
Basically, my Republican friends are flat funding the CFTCfor 5 years, 
and that is despite calls from the former and current chairman asking 
us to provide additional resources to theagency to enhance their 
ability to police Wall Street.
  Now, Dodd-Frank significantly expanded the Commission's role in 
overseeing our financial markets, and the Commission hasdone its part 
to create rules that will help to prevent another financial crisis, 
despite the fact that Congress has notprovided appropriate funding.
  Now, I get it. My Republican friends don't like Dodd-Frank. Ever 
since they took back control of the House, they have triedto dismantle 
the law piece by piece, which was enacted to protect consumers and 
protect our markets in the wake of that terriblefinancial crisis that 
practically ruined our economy.
  Now, Republicans say they don't like regulation, and it seems they 
especially don't like any regulation on Wall Street. Havethey forgotten 
the recent financial crisis that nearly destroyed our economy? Have 
they forgotten who was primarily responsiblefor that crisis? 
Apparently, they have. Now, I am not for endless and unnecessary 
regulation. Nobody is. But I do think it isappropriate for us to create 
commonsense rules that protect our markets and protect our 
constituents' hard-earned dollars.
  I find it troubling the Republican leaders in this House don't want 
to provide necessary resources to the Commission topatrol Wall Street. 
Without cops on the beat, who will ensure Wall Street actors aren't 
gaming the system and putting theeconomy at risk for another meltdown. 
I ask my Republican friends: When will Main Street take priority over 
Wall Street?
  I also take issue with the various provisions of this bill that will 
both slow the agency's work and create new avenues forcostly and 
lengthy legal battles.
  By the way, implementing these provisions will cost the Commission an 
additional $45 million over the next 5 years and willrequire an 
additional 30 full-time employees. So in addition to underfunding an 
already overworked agency, we are creating asituation where even more 
resources will be needed to satisfy burdensome and unnecessary 
requirements. Now, that means fewerdollars for the Commission to carry 
out its core mission of combating abuse and fraud in our markets and 
ensuring end users,investors, and the public are protected.
  Now, Mr. Chairman, our constituents didn't send us to Washington to 
ignore bad actors in our financial markets. Theycertainly didn't send 
us to Washington to create a regulatory environment that could put us 
on a path toward another downturn.So who are we here to represent, the 
Wall Street banks or our hardworking constituents who deserve elected 
Representatives whodo everything in their power to prevent another 
financial crisis?
  I would also like to say a few words about the cross-border 
requirements imposed by this bill, requirements that wouldhamstring the 
Commission's efforts to regulate the global swaps industry in 
cooperation with regulators around the globe.
  My colleagues across the aisle keep saying that this bill is 
essential to help farmers, ranchers, utilities, and Main Streetsmall 
business. But the farmers in this country don't have a London office to 
trade their swaps, they don't have a derivativesdesk in Tokyo, and they 
aren't trading interest rate swaps in Geneva.
  The CHAIR. The time of the gentleman has expired.

[[Page H410]]

  

  Mr. PETERSON. Mr. Chairman, I yield an additional 1 minute to the 
gentleman from Massachusetts.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Chair, let's be clear about who the cross-border 
provision in this bill is designed to help. It isn'tend users. It isn't 
farmers. It isn't manufacturers or utilities or Main Street businesses. 
It is the small group ofmultinational financial firms that have 
controlled the swaps market from the beginning. We have seen what 
happens when they areleft to their own devices. Crises in the swaps 
market do not respect national borders and boundaries. And that is why 
ourregulators from the Commission have been engaged with their 
international counterparts in crafting rules for these markets 
since2009.

                              {time}  1300

  They should be encouraged in that effort in every way possible 
through funding and expansive authority to get the rulesright. This 
bill provides neither.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to oppose this misguided 
legislation.
  Mr. CONAWAY. Mr. Chairman, I would like to point out for the Record 
that over the past two fiscal years, since 2013,the CFTC has received a 
29 percent increase in funding. It has gone from $194 million to its 
current level of $250 million. Ithink you would be hard-pressed to find 
any other agency throughout this government that has gotten a 29 
percent increase in itsresources over that timeframe.
  I now yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman from Missouri (Mrs. 
Hartzler), a valuable member of the Ag Committee.
  Mrs. HARTZLER. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support of the Commodity 
End-User Relief Act. I thank the chairman for thecountless hours that 
he and members and staff of the Ag Committee have put into crafting 
this bill, which is designed to providerelief to the end users across 
the Nation that were never intended to be burdened by these rules and 
regulations.
  I have heard from many end users in my district about the need for 
commonsense reforms to our financial regulations that areencapsulated 
in this bill. These financial regulations affect entities and the 
people I represent and rely on every day, fromthe rural electric 
cooperatives that use these financial tools to keep energy prices as 
low and as stable as possible for ruralMissourians, to the local grain 
elevators and farmers that manage their price risk using futures and 
options at a time whenprices are low. And times are hard in farm 
country. Regulatory relief for Main Street is way past due on these 
regulations thatwere designed to regulate Wall Street.
  During this debate, I have heard some of my colleagues' concerns that 
this bill has not followed regular order. But we havespent countless 
hours in briefings, hearings, and markups on this very bill. Many of us 
even took a trip to Chicago to visit theCFTC office and to tour key 
industry facilities. In the 6 years that I have served on this 
committee, we have held 22 hearingson the future of the Commission and 
the state of the derivatives industry. We held two separate markups on 
previous versions ofthis reauthorization in the 113th and 114th 
Congresses, followed by passage of these bills on the House floor. In 
fact, the billwe are taking up today is almost identical to the bill 
passed on this floor last Congress. Every single amendment to this 
billoffered by a Member of the House will be voted on today, including 
my amendment to provide relief to farmers, agriculturalcooperatives, 
and grain elevators from burdensome reporting requirements. The process 
of considering the bill has been fair andopen.
  I thank the chairman for bringing up this much-needed bill to provide 
regulatory relief to my constituents through this fairand open process. 
I encourage my colleagues to support this bill.
  Mr. PETERSON. Mr. Chairman, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from 
Arizona (Mr. O'Halleran), a new member to the Houseand a new member of 
the committee, and somebody who actually has experience in this 
business during his storied career.
  Mr. O'HALLERAN. Mr. Chairman, I thank the ranking member with whom I 
look forward to serving on the Agriculture Committee onbehalf of the 
people of Arizona.
  Mr. Chairman, I rise today to express my deep opposition to H.R. 238. 
I am troubled by the way this legislation, theCommodity End-User Relief 
Act, has been brought to the floor. This bill was only introduced last 
week. It is being rushed to avote.
  I am especially bothered by the attempt to bring this bill to the 
floor outside the rules of regular order. There were nocommittee 
hearings. There were no markups held by the committee, and the Members 
of the Agriculture Committee have been deniedthe opportunity to discuss 
the merits of this legislation.
  As a freshman member of the 115th Congress, I am especially bothered 
that this bill has been brought to the floor before theAgriculture 
Committee has even been fully organized. As a new member of the Ag 
Committee, I am troubled that my colleagues thinkthey can bypass the 
important feedback provided during the committee process. I represent 
over 80 communities in my districtwith a wide range of opinions and 
interests. Hearing from my constituents and getting feedback is 
critical to my duties as theirRepresentative in Congress. We should 
include their voices in the policymaking process, not just special 
interests that have theresources to keep lobbyists here in Washington.
  The committee process allows members to gather critical information, 
have a positive discussion, and make necessary changesto the 
legislation. As everyone on this floor knows, the committee process is 
essential to ensuring that the interests of theAmerican people are 
truly represented in the legislation and brought to the floor. I 
understand that this bill was brought up inthe 114th Congress where it 
was reviewed by the committee. It is only right that we maintain our 
democratic principles andensure that H.R. 238 fully undergoes committee 
review in this Congress.
  Mr. Chairman, this is not a partisan concept. These are the values I 
held as a Republican State legislator, as a policeofficer working in 
the community, and as a community leader.
  Mr. Chairman, I ask: If this legislation was sent through the 
committee in the last Congress, is it not going to thecommittee again?
  This process subverts the rules of this Congress, which, I might add, 
were established only last week. Bypassing the normalrules of order 
marginalizes the voice of the American people in the legislative 
process and forces a vote on legislation that isnot complete.
  I encourage my colleagues to make sure that the voice of the American 
people is heard and this legislation is brought upunder the rules of 
regular order. For this reason, I ask my colleagues to join me in 
opposing this legislation before us.
  Mr. CONAWAY. Mr. Chairman, I am proud to yield 3 minutes to the 
gentleman from Florida (Mr. Yoho), another valuablemember of the 
Agriculture Committee.
  Mr. YOHO. Mr. Chairman, I appreciate the opportunity to speak in 
favor of H.R. 238, the Commodity End-User Relief Act.
  I thank Chairman Conaway for his leadership and his continued 
commitment to positive reforms through the AgricultureCommittee. It has 
been a privilege to work with him on issues impacting our Nation's 
rural communities.
  I also thank Subcommittee Chairman Austin Scott for his work in 
bringing this bill to the floor yet again.
  This bill will provide much-needed relief to the end users of this 
country in the wake of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street reformbill. End users 
in the bill are the farmers and ranchers and public utilities across 
our country. When costs increase for them,they increase for all 
Americans. The farmer was not the reason for the economic recession 
that began in 2008. The rancher wasnot the reason, nor was the power 
company.
  So why bring them under the umbrella of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street 
reform?
  Rural America is not Wall Street. It is this view held by some of my 
colleagues on the other side of the aisle that hasalienated so many in 
rural America.
  The Agriculture Committee has approved this measure four times 
through regular order in the committee. Its commonsensereforms have

[[Page H411]]

garnered bipartisan support in the 114th Congress and the 113th 
Congress. It is my hope that with this newadministration taking office 
next week, these commonsense changes will finally be signed into law.
  I implore my fellow colleagues to listen to rural America. Remember, 
they are not Wall Street.
  I thank Chairman Conaway, Subcommittee Chairman Austin Scott, and 
Ranking Member David Scott for making thisa priority. I urge my 
colleagues to support this bill.
  Mr. PETERSON. Mr. Chairman, I yield 4 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
California (Ms. Maxine Waters), the rankingmember of the Financial 
Services Committee.
  Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in strong 
opposition to H.R. 238, a bill that would hamstringthe ability of the 
Commodity Futures Trading Commission to protect our Nation's farmers, 
manufacturers, municipalities, andretirees. Indeed, the agency has 
weighty responsibility to oversee our commodity, futures, and swaps 
markets to ensure that theyare not only fair to market participants, 
but also that they are protected from manipulation, fraud, and abuse.
  Such misconduct in these markets can impact everything from the price 
of oil, natural gas, and bread, to the interest rateson mortgages, 
credit cards, auto loans, and student loans.
  As we saw in the financial crisis, fraud and abuse in the swaps 
markets can lead to systemic risks. Recall that creditdefault swaps, 
made famous by AIG, fueled the crisis, bankrupted millions of 
homeowners, and cost taxpayers trillions ofdollars. To prevent that 
from happening again, Congress, in the Dodd-Frank Act, gave the CFTC 
new authority over the swapsmarket and required it to adopt reforms 
which, thanks to its hard work, are largely in place.
  But rather than applaud the work of the CFTC and provide it with 
funds it needs to do its job, Republicans continue to seekto undermine 
its regulatory authority, impose new procedural hurdles, and ultimately 
thwart its ability to protect the Americanpeople.
  For example, H.R. 238 would impose onerous burdens and introduce new 
litigation risks by requiring the CFTC to conduct whatis known as cost-
benefit analysis slanted toward the industry, tying the CFTC's hands 
and setting up roadblocks to prevent themfrom doing their job and 
protect investors. This is a tactic used by opponents of financial 
reform to prevent, delay, weaken,and now under a Trump administration, 
repeal any rules implementing the Dodd-Frank Act.
  This bill also would make it harder for the CFTC to police the 
overseas derivatives operations of megabanks like Citigroup,J.P. Morgan 
and Bank of America, even though the risk may still be borne by U.S. 
taxpayers. It also creates an unreasonable andhard-to-overturn 
presumption that the regulations of the largest eight foreign swaps 
markets are equivalent to U.S. regulation,allowing global megabanks to 
opt out of CFTC regulation.
  H.R. 238 is simply a bad bill, but not leaving well-enough alone, 
Republicans are attempting to make it worse throughmultiple amendments. 
Troublingly, the Lucas amendment would create loopholes in our swaps 
regime by exempting trades betweenaffiliates. Therefore, such trades 
would not have to comply with certain reporting, clearing, or initial 
margin requirements,creating a dangerous blind spot in the markets. 
What is more, the amendment is in direct contravention to already-
provided,targeted relief, including the inter-affiliate clearing 
exemption that Congress passed in a bipartisan fashion in the 
2016Consolidated Appropriations Act, which contained numerous 
safeguards to ensure appropriate CFTC oversight.
  I urge my colleagues to join me in opposing that and other harmful 
amendments, and oppose H.R. 238.
  Mr. CONAWAY. Mr. Chairman, I would like to point out for the Record 
that the cost-benefit analysis rules in this billare modeled after 
Executive Order 13563, which President Obama signed into the executive 
order status, and they are forward-looking. Nothing in our bill would 
require what might be a much-needed re-look at the Dodd-Frank rules 
done in the past. Thecost-benefit analysis would require any future 
rulemaking to comply.
  I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from California (Mr. LaMalfa), 
another valuable member of the Agriculture Committee.
  Mr. LaMALFA. Mr. Chairman, I thank Chairman Conaway for his 
leadership and the opportunity to speak today.
  I rise today in strong support of H.R. 238, the Commodity End-User 
Relief Act. For the last 2 years, as a member of theAgriculture 
Committee, I have worked continuously to improve the operations of the 
Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
  Through a great deal of bipartisan hearings, members were able to 
hear from everyone at the table--the regulators, marketparticipants, 
and end users alike. When discussing how to ensure robust markets, 
consumer protections, and relief for end users,H.R. 238 truly 
represents a true agreement. After all, the end users are our 
customers. They are the whole reason for thislegislation and this 
entity to begin with.
  Another important provision included in this bill is language I had 
previously introduced, the Public Power Risk ManagementAct, which 
ensures that 47 million Americans who rely on public power for 
electricity will not see their rates increase due tounintended 
consequences of Dodd-Frank.

                              {time}  1315

  There are 2,000 publicly owned utilities across this country, 
including one in my own district in the city of Redding, whohave used 
swaps to manage their risk for years, and this bill safeguards their 
ability to do so while protecting taxpayers fromhigh, unnecessary 
costs.
  Our farmers, ranchers, manufacturers--again, the end users--and other 
businesses who pose no systemic risk to our financialsystem and did not 
cause the financial crisis should not have to face costly red tape from 
policies meant to protect them in thefirst place.
  I want to thank, again, Chairman Conaway for leading on this issue 
and for the hard work in committee, all theconversations, all the 
background it takes to get this done and put the light on the practical 
effects of the unintendedconsequences on the actual customers, the end 
users.
  This bill is about American producers and consumers. I am proud to be 
part of this work product we have on the floor today,and I urge my 
colleagues to support this measure.
  Mr. PETERSON. Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. CONAWAY. Mr. Chairman, may I inquire as to how much time is left 
on both sides.
  The CHAIR. The gentleman from Texas has 13\1/2\ minutes remaining. 
The gentleman from Minnesota has 14\1/2\ minutesremaining.
  Mr. CONAWAY. Mr. Chair, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from 
Georgia (Mr. Austin Scott), who is the chairman of theSubcommittee on 
Commodity Exchanges, Energy, and Credit.
  Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support of 
H.R. 238, the Commodity End-User Relief Act. It issimply good 
governance to reauthorize the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 
which has been operating without authorizationsince 2013. I think this 
legislation represents the kind of thoughtful and bipartisan approach 
to policymaking that is oftenlacking in this place.
  In the 114th Congress, I served as chairman of the Subcommittee on 
Commodity Exchanges, Energy, and Credit, and duringseveral of the 
hearings on this reauthorization, we heard diverse perspectives from 
end users, from market participants, andfrom regulators. That 
testimony, coupled with the testimony from numerous other hearings at 
the subcommittee and full committeelevel in past Congresses, was 
instrumental in drafting the legislation before us today, which is the 
same legislation thatpassed the House of Representatives last Congress 
in June 2015.
  This bill includes needed reforms to clarify congressional intent, 
minimize regulatory burdens, and, most importantly,preserve the ability 
of necessary risk management markets to serve those who need them.
  Time and again we have heard how end users--who, I want to point out, 
were not the cause of the financial crisis--have beenthe collateral 
damage of

[[Page H412]]

Dodd-Frank reforms. These end users are our farmers, ranchers, 
manufacturers, and electric andgas utilities, and they rely on the 
derivatives markets to manage their risk, thereby helping to keep 
consumer costs low.
  It is essential that we provide end users with much-needed relief and 
clarity in order to prevent the cost of unnecessaryregulatory burdens 
that lead to increased costs and uncertainty being shouldered by the 
American citizens in my district andacross the country.
  I want to note that this legislation in no way undermines the goals 
of Dodd-Frank. Instead, it simply eases the regulatoryburden on those 
who use the derivatives markets not so they can speculate, but so they 
can hedge risk. Ultimately, this bill isabout protecting the American 
producer and the American consumer.
  I want to close by thanking Chairman Conaway for his strong 
leadership on the House Committee on Agriculture, and theranking member 
of the Commodity Exchanges, Energy, and Credit Subcommittee and my 
colleague from Georgia (Mr. David Scott),who has been a steady partner 
throughout this effort.
  We have worked diligently to produce legislation that provides needed 
reforms to ensure our regulatory framework protectsthe integrity of our 
markets, while not limiting the ability of end users to access those 
tools to conduct their business.
  Mr. Chairman, I believe the CFTC should be reauthorized, and I am 
proud to support H.R. 238, the Commodity End-User ReliefAct, and I urge 
my colleagues to join me in voting for this legislation.
  Mr. PETERSON. Mr. Chairman, if I could inquire from Chairman Conaway 
if he has any more speakers?
  Mr. CONAWAY. I have no further speakers.
  Mr. PETERSON. Is the gentleman prepared to close?
  Mr. CONAWAY. Mr. Chairman, may I inquire as to who has the right to 
close?
  The CHAIR. The gentleman from Texas has the right to close.
  Mr. PETERSON. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  In closing, I just wish that I could support a reauthorization bill, 
a clean bill for the CFTC that came through theCommittee on Agriculture 
in regular order, but that is not what has happened.
  I want to thank Chairman Conaway for his work in the last Congress, 
trying to find common ground, and I hope that wecan get back to regular 
order in the future in the committee.
  So again, Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to oppose H.R. 238, and 
I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. CONAWAY. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  As I close, I want to remind us of the need to act today. But before 
I do, I also want to thank the ranking member. While wemay vote 
differently on this bill, he and I generally work well together on a 
myriad of issues that face not only productionagriculture, but rural 
America as well, and I thank him for his work, even though we may not 
vote exactly the same way today.
  Over the past 4 years, the Committee on Agriculture heard dozens of 
witnesses about the upheaval end users have been facingwhile trying to 
use derivative markets in the wake of the post-crisis financial 
reforms. While this Congress took affirmativesteps in Dodd-Frank to 
protect end users from harm, today it is clear that there is still work 
to be done. have been facing while trying to use derivative markets in 
the wake of the post-crisis financial reforms. While thisCongress took 
affirmative steps in Dodd-Frank to protect end users from harm, today 
it is clear that there is still work to bedone.

  It isn't enough to simply raise these issues and hope that the CFTC 
will take care of them for us--for one, sometimes theycannot. There are 
numerous small oversights in the statute that have big implications for 
end users that we must correct in thislegislation.
  Currently, the CEA defines some utility companies as financial 
entities, stripping them of their status as end users. TheCommission 
can't fix this.
  The core principles for SEFs, which were added to the CEA by Dodd-
Frank, were lifted almost word for word from the coreprinciples for 
futures exchanges, even though swaps exchanges and futures exchanges 
operate completely differently and SEFscannot perform many of the 
functions of a futures exchange. The Commission cannot fix this.
  Certainly, the Commission can and has tried to paper over these 
problems, issuing staff letters explaining how it will dealwith 
incongruities in the law. But that isn't good enough. We know the 
problems. We should fix them, and fix them now.
  Sometimes, though, the problem isn't the statute. There are a number 
of end-user issues that we have heard testimony aboutwhich the CFTC 
will not fix, because the Commission simply disagrees with Congress 
about how to apply the law. We know theseproblems also.
  The Commission has promulgated a rule that reduces the transaction 
threshold to be considered a swap dealer from $8 billionto $3 billion, 
a 60 percent decline, while it is still studying the matter. We should 
require that the CFTC complete the studyand have a public vote on that 
matter.
  The Commission has proposed a new method of granting bona fide hedge 
exemptions that is significantly narrower than thecurrent method, 
upending longstanding hedging conventions for market participants. This 
proposal has the added disadvantage ofbeing dramatically more labor 
intensive for the Commission. We should insist that historic hedging 
practices be protected.
  The Commission has issued a new rule on ownership, control, and 
reporting that it knows isn't working. They have delayed 
itsimplementation for over 3 years by continuing to parcel out 
temporary reprieves. We should insist the Commission amend the ruleso 
that market participants know definitively what their compliance 
obligations are.
  The definition of swap does not exclude transactions that are wholly 
contained within a single company and not marketfacing. Regulators have 
used this leeway to require businesses and financial institutions to 
follow rules that are, quitefrankly, inappropriate for risk management 
purposes and costly for the companies to use them. We should amend the 
statute, tomake it clear that inter-affiliate transactions should not 
be regulated the same way as publicly transacted swaps.
  The challenges facing businesses who hedge their risks in derivatives 
markets are real. Today we have an opportunity to fixsome of those 
problems. Every dollar that a business can save by better managing its 
risk is a dollar available to grow thatbusiness, pay higher wages, and 
lower costs to consumers or protect investors.
  Over the past week, over 30 organizations representing thousands of 
American businesses have voiced their support for theimportant reforms 
in the Commodity End-User Relief Act. Businesses from farm country to 
major manufacturers, to public utilitiesneed every tool available to 
manage their businesses and reduce the uncertainties they face each day 
in today's global economy.
  I urge my colleagues to support the Commodity End-User Relief Act, 
protect these companies, and ensure that they have thetools they need 
to compete in a global economy.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. GOODLATTE. Mr. Chair, I rise today to first express my great 
appreciation to Chairman Michael Conaway andSubcommittee Chairman 
Austin Scott for their hard work in crafting H.R. 238, the Commodity 
End-User Relief Act, legislationto reauthorize the Commodity Futures 
Trading Commission (CFTC). Chairman Conaway and Subcommittee Chairman 
Austin Scottheld four hearings throughout the 114th Congress regarding 
the CFTC and its future, during which time they invited input from 
awide variety of interested stakeholders. I believe that they have 
struck the right balance in providing the CFTC with theauthorizations 
necessary for the agency to do its job, while increasing oversight, 
instituting reforms to protect end-users fromregulatory overreach, and 
improving consumer protection against fraud or mismanagement.
  I am also pleased to see that since the House of Representatives last 
acted to reauthorize the CFTC, in light of many yearsof concern about 
aluminum markets and warehousing practices, the London Metal Exchange 
has implemented additional reforms totheir aluminum warehousing 
practices and

[[Page H413]]

contracts. Now that the London Metal Exchange has been recognized by 
the CFTC asa Foreign Board of Trade, I look forward to continuing my 
review of these reforms and their impact on aluminum markets and 
endusers, while remaining hopeful that these changes will accomplish 
their intended goal.
  Once again, I would like to thank all those involved in bringing this 
bill to the floor, Chairman Michael Conaway,Subcommittee Chairman 
Austin Scott, and Ranking Member David Scott. I ask my colleagues to 
join me in supporting thislegislation.
  Mr. CONAWAY. Mr. Chair, I include in the Record the following letters 
of support for H.R. 238:

                                                  January11, 2017.
     Hon. Paul Ryan,
     Speaker, House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
     Hon. Nancy Pelosi,
     Democratic Leader, House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
       Dear Speaker Ryan and LeaderPelosi: FIA supports H.R. 238, 
     the ``Commodity End User Relief Act''. Notably, this 
     legislation reauthorizes the CommodityFutures Trading 
     Commission (CFTC), which has been without statutory 
     authorization for almost four years. In addition 
     toreauthorizing the CFTC, Congress has historically taken the 
     opportunity of reauthorization to periodically review and 
     enhancethe CFTC's authorities. This is essential in a 
     regulatory environment where the marketplace is extremely 
     dynamic. Given theconstantly evolving structure to which 
     these regulatory authorities apply, it is prudent for 
     Congress to consider updating thestatute in response to 
     market changes. We commend the House Committee on Agriculture 
     for efforts to build upon previous work andadvance this 
     legislation.
       H.R. 238 contains prudent internal risk controls to 
     safeguard market data and improved customerprotections sought 
     by the market participants who rely on derivatives to manage 
     their risks. These are examples of policyenhancements that 
     have garnered tremendous favor in recent years as evidenced 
     by the bi-partisan support they have received inprevious 
     Congressional sessions.
       As noted above, the constant evolution of the markets 
     regulated by the CFTC has advancedeven since the last time 
     the House of Representatives passed similar legislation, 
     which warrants the introduction of newstatutory updates 
     expected to be offered as floor amendments. In particular, 
     FIA would like to lend our support to the bi-partisan Duffy/
     Scott amendment protecting critical intellectual property 
     that is key to the innovative culture in the UnitedStates. 
     Additionally, we commend Congresswoman Hartzler for her 
     amendment recognizing the need to improve the quality 
     ofinformation submitted for the Commission's surveillance and 
     large trader reporting programs.
       We look forward to seeing thiseffort advance to the Senate 
     where we expect to have continued dialogue on refinements.
           Sincerely,
     President andCEO.
                                  ____

         International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc.,
                                 Washington, DC, January 11, 2015.
     Hon. PaulRyan,
     Speaker, House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
     Hon. Nancy Pelosi,
     Democratic Leader, House ofRepresentatives, Washington, DC.
       Dear Speaker Ryan and Leader Pelosi: We are writing to 
     expressthe International Swaps and Derivatives Association, 
     Inc.'s (``ISDA'') support for H.R. 238, the Commodity End-
     User Relief Act.The legislation was introduced on January 4, 
     2017.
       Since 1985, ISDA has worked to make the global derivatives 
     markets saferand more efficient. Today, ISDA has over 850 
     member institutions from 66 countries. These members comprise 
     a broad range ofderivatives market participants, including 
     corporations, investment managers, government and 
     supranational entities, insurancecompanies, energy and 
     commodities firms, and international and regional banks. In 
     addition to market participants, members alsoinclude key 
     components of the derivatives market infrastructure, such as 
     exchanges, intermediaries, clearing houses andrepositories, 
     as well as law firms, accounting firms and other service 
     providers. Information about ISDA and its activities 
     isavailable on the Association's web site: www.isda.org.
       H.R. 238 would codify new regulatory customer protections 
     and enhanceoversight of the Commodity Futures Trading 
     Commission. The Commodity End-User Relief Act would also ease 
     the regulatory burdensplaced on end-users. These are measures 
     that ISDA supports.
       Please also note that, while ISDA appreciates and supports 
     theCommodity End-User Relief Act, we look forward to working 
     with Congress to ensure that the cross-border provisions of 
     the billare further addressed during the course of the 
     legislative process.
       ISDA urges you to vote for H.R. 238. Thank you for 
     yourconsideration of our views. If you have any questions, 
     please do not hesitate to contact our Head of US Public 
     PolicyChristopher Young.
           Sincerely,
                                                    Scott O'Malia,
     Chief Executive Officer.
                                  ____

                                          The Jewish Federations,


                                             of North America,

                                  Washington DC, January 11, 2017.
     Hon. K. MichaelConaway,
     Chairman, House Agriculture Committee, Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman Conaway: TheJewish Federations of North 
     America (JFNA) is writing to express our support for H.R. 
     238, the ``Commodity End-User ReliefAct.'' We are 
     particularly supportive of section 313 of the bill which 
     provides for the exemption of qualified 
     charitableorganizations from designation and regulation as 
     commodity pool operators.
       JFNA is the national organization that representsand serves 
     149 Jewish Federations across the United States and North 
     America. In their communities, Jewish Federations andrelated 
     Jewish community foundations serve as the central address for 
     fundraising and support for an extensive network of 
     Jewishhealth, education and social services in their area. 
     Part of the charitable mission of Jewish federations and 
     Jewish communityfoundations is to help grow the endowment 
     assets of their organizations as well as those of related 
     Jewish agencies andsynagogues who have entrusted their 
     endowment funds with them. This is accomplished through 
     pooling investment assets tomaximize financial return, 
     minimize cost and risk, and take advantage of investment 
     expertise and economies of scale. Increasedendowment dollars 
     translate into more current support of essential program 
     activities as well as helping to assure the long-
     termviability of Jewish organizations and institutions. The 
     enactment of H.R. 238 will harmonize the registration 
     exemptions betweensecurities and commodities laws and 
     regulations and exempt qualified charities from registering 
     their pooled funds as commoditypools or as commodity pool 
     operators. This exemption will eliminate confusion, spare 
     needless legal costs, and ensure that suchorganizations as 
     Jewish federations and foundations can continue to invest in 
     widely diversified instruments in order tomaximize returns to 
     their beneficiaries who use such investment income to provide 
     additional social services to the most needyamong us.
       Thank you again for efforts to ensure the enactment of the 
     Commodity End-User Relief Act. JFNA and the federationsystem 
     stand ready to help you in any way to achieve this important 
     goal. If you have any questions regarding JFNA and 
     itsinvolvement in this issue I urge you to contact Steven 
     Woolf, JFNA Senior Tax Policy Counsel.
           Sincerely,

                                             William C.Daroff,

                         Senior Vice President for Public Policy &
     Director, of the Washington Office.
                                  ____



                                                        NRECA,

                                   Arlington, VA,January 10, 2017.
     Hon. Mike Conaway,
     Chairman, House Committee on Agriculture, Washington, DC.
     Hon. CollinPeterson,
     Ranking Member, House Committee on Agriculture, Washington, 
         DC.
       Dear Chairman Conawayand Ranking Member Peterson: The 
     National Rural Electric Cooperative Association (NRECA) 
     supports the Commodity End UserRelief Act (H.R. 238), 
     legislation to reauthorize the Commodity Futures Trading 
     Commission (CFTC) to be considered on the Housefloor this 
     week.
       NRECA is the national service organization representing 
     over 900 not-for-profit, member-owned, ruralelectric 
     cooperative systems, which serve 42 million customers in 47 
     states. NRECA estimates that cooperatives own and maintain2.5 
     million miles or 42 percent of the nation's electric 
     distribution lines covering three-quarters of the nation's 
     landmass.Cooperatives serve approximately 18 million 
     businesses, homes, farms, schools and other establishments in 
     2,500 of the nation's3,141 counties.
       Electric cooperatives are commercial end-users and not 
     financial entities. NRECA believes that 
     Congressionaloversight is essential to help ensure that the 
     CFTC is implementing the Dodd-Frank Act as Congress intended. 
     To that end, NRECAsupports H.R. 238 as a means to ensure that 
     resources at the CFTC are prioritized to protect against 
     systemic risk to ourfinancial system, and to regulate swap 
     dealers and large traders, and not fruitlessly focused on the 
     everyday commoditytransactions with which end-users hedge 
     commercial risks arising from ongoing business operations.
       Importantly, H.R. 238amends the Commodity Exchange Act 
     (CEA) in a very narrow but critical way: to clarify 
     Congressional intent that the CFTC shallnot regulate as 
     ``swaps'' nonfinancial commodity contracts that are intended 
     to be physically settled, whether those contractsare forward 
     contracts or commodity trade options. Our members use these 
     physical contracts to manage supply and demand forenergy 
     resources, and to keep the lights on for American businesses 
     and consumers. NRECA is also particularly interested in 
     H.R.238 language that reduces onerous recordkeeping 
     requirements, as well as a codified resolution to the utility 
     special entityrequirement that would otherwise negatively 
     impact such utilities and their customers.
       NRECA appreciates the Committee'scontinued work on CFTC 
     reauthorization legislation this Congress, and urges Members 
     of Congress to support H.R. 238 when it isconsidered by the 
     House of Representatives.
           Sincerely,
                                                     Jim Matheson,
                                                        CEO,NRECA.

[[Page H414]]

     
                                  ____
                                                       SIFMA,

                                 Washington, DC, January 10, 2017.
     Hon. Paul D. Ryan,
     Speaker, House ofRepresentatives,
     Washington, DC.
     Hon. Nancy Pelosi,
     Democratic Leader, House of Representatives,
     Washington,DC.
       Dear Speaker Ryan and Leader Pelosi: SIFMA and its member 
     firms support H.R. 238, CommodityEnd-User Relief Act, 
     bipartisan legislation that seeks to reauthorize the 
     Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) to betterprotect 
     swaps customers, provide market certainty for end-users, and 
     make basic reforms to improve the functioning of theCFTC.
       SIFMA also supports the inter-affiliate amendment sponsored 
     by Rep. Frank Lucas (R-Okla.), which includes language 
     toclarify exemptions from swap rules, as well as requirements 
     for reporting, risk management, and anti-evasion as it 
     relates tosuch transactions.
       Further, SIFMA appreciates efforts to establish a workable 
     framework for cross-border regulation ofderivatives 
     transactions. We look forward to continuing to work with the 
     Committee in an effort to consider this importantissue. SIFMA 
     urges you to vote for H.R. 238. Thank you for your 
     consideration of our views.
           Sincerely,
                                                      AndyBlocker,
                           EVP, Public Policy and Advocacy, SIFMA.

  The CHAIR. All time for general debate has expired.
  Pursuant to the rule, the bill shall be considered for amendment 
under the 5-minute rule.
  It shall be in order to consider as an original bill for the purpose 
of amendment under the 5-minute rule an amendment inthe nature of a 
substitute consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print 115-2. That 
amendment in the nature of a substituteshall be considered as read.
  The text of the amendment in the nature of a substitute is as 
follows:

                                H.R. 238

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the UnitedStates of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited asthe ``Commodity End-User Relief 
     Act''.

     SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

       The table of contentsof this Act is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.

                      TITLE I--CUSTOMERPROTECTIONS

Sec. 101. Enhanced protections for futures customers.
Sec. 102. Electronic confirmation of customerfunds.
Sec. 103. Notice and certifications providing additional customer 
              protections.
Sec. 104. Futures commissionmerchant compliance.
Sec. 105. Certainty for futures customers and market participants.

         TITLE II--COMMODITY FUTURES TRADINGCOMMISSION REFORMS

Sec. 201. Extension of operations.
Sec. 202. Consideration by the Commodity Futures Trading Commissionof 
              the costs and benefits of its regulations and orders.
Sec. 203. Division directors.
Sec. 204. Office of the ChiefEconomist.
Sec. 205. Procedures governing actions taken by Commission staff.
Sec. 206. Strategic technologyplan.
Sec. 207. Internal risk controls.
Sec. 208. Subpoena duration and renewal.
Sec. 209. Applicability of notice andcomment requirements of the 
              Administrative Procedure Act to guidance voted on by the 
              Commission.
Sec. 210. Judicial review ofCommission rules.
Sec. 211. GAO study on use of Commission resources.
Sec. 212. Disclosure of required data of otherregistered entities.

                       TITLE III--END-USER RELIEF

Sec. 301. Transactions with utility special entities.
Sec. 302. Utilityspecial entity defined.
Sec. 303. Utility operations-related swap.
Sec. 304. End-users not treated as financialentities.
Sec. 305. Reporting of illiquid swaps so as to not disadvantage certain 
              non-financial end-users.
Sec. 306. Relief for grain elevator operators, farmers, agricultural 
              counterparties, and commercial marketparticipants.
Sec. 307. Relief for end-users who use physical contracts with 
              volumetric optionality.
Sec. 308. Commissionvote required before automatic change of swap 
              dealer de minimis level.
Sec. 309. Capital requirements for non-bank swapdealers.
Sec. 310. Harmonization with the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act.
Sec. 311. Bona fide hedge defined toprotect end-user risk management 
              needs.
Sec. 312. Cross-border regulation of derivatives transactions.
Sec. 313. Exemptionof qualified charitable organizations from 
              designation and regulation as commodity pool operators.
Sec. 314. Small bankholding company clearing exemption.
Sec. 315. Core principle certainty.
Sec. 316. Treatment of Federal Home Loan Bankproducts.
Sec. 317. Treatment of certain funds.

                    TITLE IV--TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS

Sec. 401. Correction ofreferences.
Sec. 402. Elimination of obsolete references to dealer options.
Sec. 403. Updated trade data publicationrequirement.
Sec. 404. Flexibility for registered entities.
Sec. 405. Elimination of obsolete references to electronictrading 
              facilities.
Sec. 406. Elimination of obsolete reference to alternative swap 
              executionfacilities.
Sec. 407. Elimination of redundant references to types of registered 
              entities.
Sec. 408. Clarification ofCommission authority over swaps trading.
Sec. 409. Elimination of obsolete reference to the Commodity 
              ExchangeCommission.
Sec. 410. Elimination of obsolete references to derivative transaction 
              executionfacilities.
Sec. 411. Elimination of obsolete references to exempt boards of trade.
Sec. 412. Elimination of report due in1986.
Sec. 413. Compliance report flexibility.
Sec. 414. Miscellaneous corrections.

                     TITLE I--CUSTOMER PROTECTIONS

     SEC. 101. ENHANCED PROTECTIONS FOR FUTURESCUSTOMERS.

       Section 17 of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 21) is 
     amended by adding at the end the following:
       ``(t) Aregistered futures association shall--
       ``(1) require each member of the association that is a 
     futures commission merchant tomaintain written policies and 
     procedures regarding the maintenance of--
       ``(A) the residual interest of the member, asdescribed in 
     section 1.23 of title 17, Code of Federal Regulations, in any 
     customer segregated funds account of the member, asidentified 
     in section 1.20 of such title, and in any foreign futures and 
     foreign options customer secured amount funds accountof the 
     member, as identified in section 30.7 of such title; and
       ``(B) the residual interest of the member, as described 
     insection 22.2(e)(4) of such title, in any cleared swaps 
     customer collateral account of the member, as identified in 
     section 22.2of such title; and
       ``(2) establish rules to govern the withdrawal, transfer or 
     disbursement by any member of theassociation, that is a 
     futures commission merchant, of the member's residual 
     interest in customer segregated funds as providedin such 
     section 1.20, in foreign futures and foreign options customer 
     secured amount funds, identified as provided in suchsection 
     30.7, and from a cleared swaps customer collateral, 
     identified as provided in such section 22.2.''.

     SEC. 102. ELECTRONIC CONFIRMATION OF CUSTOMER FUNDS.

       Section 17 of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C.21), as 
     amended by section 101 of this Act, is amended by adding at 
     the end the following:
       ``(u) A registered futuresassociation shall require any 
     member of the association that is a futures commission 
     merchant to--
       ``(1) use an electronicsystem or systems to report 
     financial and operational information to the association or 
     another party designated by theregistered futures 
     association, including information related to customer 
     segregated funds, foreign futures and foreign optionscustomer 
     secured amount funds accounts, and cleared swaps customer 
     collateral, in accordance with such terms, 
     conditions,documentation standards, and regular time 
     intervals as are established by the registered futures 
     association;
       ``(2) instructeach depository, including any bank, trust 
     company, derivatives clearing organization, or futures 
     commission merchant, holdingcustomer segregated funds under 
     section 1.20 of title 17, Code of Federal Regulations, 
     foreign futures and foreign optionscustomer secured amount 
     funds under section 30.7 of such title, or cleared swap 
     customer funds under section 22.2 of such title,to report 
     balances in the futures commission merchant's section 1.20 
     customer segregated funds, section 30.7 foreign futures 
     andforeign options customer secured amount funds, and section 
     22.2 cleared swap customer funds, to the registered 
     futuresassociation or another party designated by the 
     registered futures association, in the form, manner, and 
     interval prescribed bythe registered futures association; and
       ``(3) hold section 1.20 customer segregated funds, section 
     30.7 foreign futures andforeign options customer secured 
     amount funds and section 22.2 cleared swaps customer funds in 
     a depository that reports thebalances in these accounts of 
     the futures commission merchant held at the depository to the 
     registered futures association oranother party designated by 
     the registered futures association in the form, manner, and 
     interval prescribed by the registeredfutures association.''.

     SEC. 103. NOTICE AND CERTIFICATIONS PROVIDING ADDITIONAL 
                   CUSTOMERPROTECTIONS.

       Section 17 of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 21), as 
     amended by sections 101 and 102 of this Act, isamended by 
     adding at the end the following:
       ``(v) A futures commission merchant that has adjusted net 
     capital in an amountless than the amount required by 
     regulations established by the Commission or a self-
     regulatory organization of which thefutures commission 
     merchant is a member shall immediately notify the Commission 
     and the self-regulatory organization of thisoccurrence.

[[Page H415]]

       ``(w) A futures commission merchant that does not hold a 
     sufficient amount of funds in segregated accountsfor futures 
     customers under section 1.20 of title 17, Code of Federal 
     Regulations, in foreign futures and foreign optionssecured 
     amount accounts for foreign futures and foreign options 
     secured amount customers under section 30.7 of such title, or 
     insegregated accounts for cleared swap customers under 
     section 22.2 of such title, as required by regulations 
     established by theCommission or a self-regulatory 
     organization of which the futures commission merchant is a 
     member, shall immediately notify theCommission and the self-
     regulatory organization of this occurrence.
       ``(x) Within such time period established by theCommission 
     after the end of each fiscal year, a futures commission 
     merchant shall file with the Commission a report from 
     thechief compliance officer of the futures commission 
     merchant containing an assessment of the internal compliance 
     programs of thefutures commission merchant.''.

     SEC. 104. FUTURES COMMISSION MERCHANT COMPLIANCE.

       (a)In General.--Section 4d(a) of the Commodity Exchange Act 
     (7 U.S.C. 6d(a)) is amended--
       (1) by redesignating paragraphs(1) and (2) as subparagraphs 
     (A) and (B);
       (2) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``It shall be unlawful''; 
     and
       (3) by adding atthe end the following new paragraph:
       ``(2) Any rules or regulations requiring a futures 
     commission merchant to maintain aresidual interest in 
     accounts held for the benefit of customers in amounts at 
     least sufficient to exceed the sum of alluncollected margin 
     deficits of such customers shall provide that a futures 
     commission merchant shall meet its residual 
     interestrequirement as of the end of each business day 
     calculated as of the close of business on the previous 
     business day.''.
       (b)Conforming Amendment.--Section 4d(h) of such Act (7 
     U.S.C. 6d(h)) is amended by striking ``Notwithstanding 
     subsection (a)(2)'' and inserting ``Notwithstanding 
     subsection (a)(1)(B)''.

     SEC. 105. CERTAINTY FOR FUTURESCUSTOMERS AND MARKET 
                   PARTICIPANTS.

       Section 20(a) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 
     24(a)) is amended--
       (1) bystriking ``and'' at the end of paragraph (4);
       (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (5) and 
     inserting ``;and''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(6) that cash, securities, or other property of the 
     estate of acommodity broker, including the trading or 
     operating accounts of the commodity broker and commodities 
     held in inventory by thecommodity broker, shall be included 
     in customer property, subject to any otherwise unavoidable 
     security interest, or otherwiseunavoidable contractual offset 
     or netting rights of creditors (including rights set forth in 
     a rule or bylaw of a derivativesclearing organization or a 
     clearing agency) in respect of such property, but only to the 
     extent that the property that isotherwise customer property 
     is insufficient to satisfy the net equity claims of public 
     customers (as such term may be defined bythe Commission by 
     rule or regulation) of the commodity broker.''.

         TITLE II--COMMODITYFUTURES TRADING COMMISSION REFORMS

     SEC. 201. EXTENSION OF OPERATIONS.

       Section 12(d) ofthe Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 16(d)) 
     is amended to read as follows:
       ``(d) Authorization of Appropriations.--Thereis authorized 
     to be appropriated $250,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2017 
     through 2021 to carry out thisAct.''.

     SEC. 202. CONSIDERATION BY THE COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING 
                   COMMISSION OF THE COSTS ANDBENEFITS OF ITS 
                   REGULATIONS AND ORDERS.

       Section 15(a) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 
     19(a)) is amended--
       (1) bystriking paragraphs (1) and (2) and inserting the 
     following:
       ``(1) In general.--Before promulgating a regulation 
     underthis Act or issuing an order (except as provided in 
     paragraph (3)), the Commission, through the Office of the 
     Chief Economist,shall assess and publish in the regulation or 
     order the costs and benefits, both qualitative and 
     quantitative, of the proposedregulation or order, and the 
     proposed regulation or order shall state its statutory 
     justification.
       ``(2)Considerations.--In making a reasoned determination of 
     the costs and the benefits, the Commission shall evaluate--
       ``(A)considerations of protection of market participants 
     and the public;
       ``(B) considerations of the efficiency, competitiveness,and 
     financial integrity of futures and swaps markets;
       ``(C) considerations of the impact on market liquidity in 
     the futuresand swaps markets;
       ``(D) considerations of price discovery;
       ``(E) considerations of sound risk managementpractices;
       ``(F) available alternatives to direct regulation;
       ``(G) the degree and nature of the risks posed by 
     variousactivities within the scope of its jurisdiction;
       ``(H) the costs of complying with the proposed regulation 
     or order by allregulated entities, including a methodology 
     for quantifying the costs (recognizing that some costs are 
     difficult toquantify);
       ``(I) whether the proposed regulation or order is 
     inconsistent, incompatible, or duplicative of other 
     Federalregulations or orders;
       ``(J) the cost to the Commission of implementing the 
     proposed regulation or order by the Commissionstaff, 
     including a methodology for quantifying the costs;
       ``(K) whether, in choosing among alternative 
     regulatoryapproaches, hose approaches maximize net benefits 
     (including potential economic and other benefits, 
     distributive impacts, andequity); and
       ``(L) other public interest considerations.''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(4)Judicial review.--Notwithstanding section 24(d), a 
     court shall affirm a Commission assessment of costs and 
     benefits underthis subsection, unless the court finds the 
     assessment to be an abuse of discretion.''.

     SEC.203. DIVISION DIRECTORS.

       Section 2(a)(6)(C) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 
     2(a)(6)(C)) is amended by inserting ``,and the heads of the 
     units shall serve at the pleasure of the Commission'' before 
     the period.

     SEC. 204. OFFICE OF THE CHIEF ECONOMIST.

       (a) In General.--Section 2(a) of the Commodity Exchange Act 
     (7 U.S.C. 2(a))is amended by adding at the end the following:
       ``(16) Office of the chief economist.--
       ``(A)Establishment.--There is established in the Commission 
     the Office of the Chief Economist.
       ``(B) Head.--The Office ofthe Chief Economist shall be 
     headed by the Chief Economist, who shall be appointed by the 
     Commission and serve at the pleasureof the Commission.
       ``(C) Functions.--The Chief Economist shall report directly 
     to the Commission and perform suchfunctions and duties as the 
     Commission may prescribe.
       ``(D) Professional staff.--The Commission shall appoint 
     such othereconomists as may be necessary to assist the Chief 
     Economist in performing such economic analysis, regulatory 
     cost-benefitanalysis, or research any member of the 
     Commission may request.''.
       (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 2(a)(6)(A) of suchAct (7 
     U.S.C. 2(a)(6)(A)) is amended by striking ``(4) and (5) of 
     this subsection'' and inserting ``(4), (5), and(16)''.
       (c) Sense of the Congress.--It is the sense of the Congress 
     that the Commodity Futures Trading Commission shouldtake all 
     appropriate actions to encourage applications for positions 
     in the Office of the Chief Economist from members ofminority 
     groups, women, disabled persons, and veterans.

     SEC. 205. PROCEDURES GOVERNINGACTIONS TAKEN BY COMMISSION 
                   STAFF.

       Section 2(a)(12) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 
     2(a)(12)) is amended--
       (1) bystriking ``(12) The'' and inserting the following:
       ``(12) Rules and regulations.--
       ``(A) In general.--Subject tothe other provisions of this 
     paragraph, the''; and
       (2) by adding after and below the end the following 
     newsubparagraph:
       ``(B) Notice to commissioners.--The Commission shall 
     develop and publish internal procedures governing theissuance 
     by any division or office of the Commission of any response 
     to a formal, written request or petition from any member 
     ofthe public for an exemptive, a no-action, or an 
     interpretive letter and such procedures shall provide that 
     the commissioners beprovided with the final version of the 
     matter to be issued with sufficient notice to review the 
     matter prior to itsissuance.''.

     SEC. 206. STRATEGIC TECHNOLOGY PLAN.

       Section 2(a) of the Commodity ExchangeAct (7 U.S.C. 2(a)), 
     as amended by section 204(a) of this Act, is amended by 
     adding at the end the following:
       ``(17)Strategic technology plan.--
       ``(A) In general.--Every 5 years, the Commission shall 
     develop and submit to theCommittee on Agriculture of the 
     House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, 
     Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senatea detailed plan focused 
     on the acquisition and use of technology by the Commission.
       ``(B) Contents.--The planshall--
       ``(i) include for each related division or office a 
     detailed technology strategy focused on market surveillance 
     andrisk detection, market data collection, aggregation, 
     interpretation, standardization, harmonization, 
     normalization, validation,streamlining or other data analytic 
     processes, and internal management and protection of data 
     collected by the Commission,including a detailed accounting 
     of how the funds provided for technology will be used and the 
     priorities that will apply in theuse of the funds;
       ``(ii) set forth annual goals to be accomplished and annual 
     budgets needed to accomplish the goals;and
       ``(iii) include a summary of any plan of action and 
     milestones to address any known information security 
     vulnerability,as identified pursuant to a widely accepted 
     industry or Government standard, including--

       ``(I) specific information about theindustry or Government 
     standard used to identify the known information security 
     vulnerability;
       ``(II) a detailed time linewith specific deadlines for 
     addressing the known information security vulnerability; and
       ``(III) an update of any such timeline and the rationale 
     for any deviation from the time line.''.

     SEC. 207. INTERNAL RISKCONTROLS.

       Section 2(a)(12) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 
     2(a)(12)), as amended by section 205 of this Act, isamended 
     by adding at the end the following:
       ``(C) Internal risk controls.--The Commission, in 
     consultation with theChief Economist, shall develop 
     comprehensive internal risk control mechanisms to safeguard 
     and govern the storage of all marketdata by the Commission, 
     all market data sharing agreements of the Commission, and all 
     academic research performed at theCommission using market 
     data.''.

     SEC. 208. SUBPOENA DURATION AND RENEWAL.

       Section 6(c)(5)of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 
     9(5)) is amended--
       (1) by striking ``(5) Subpoena.--For'' and inserting 
     thefollowing:
       ``(5) Subpoena.--

[[Page H416]]

       ``(A) In general.--For''; and
       (2) by adding after and below the end thefollowing:
       ``(B) Omnibus orders of investigation.--
       ``(i) Duration and renewal.--An omnibus order 
     ofinvestigation shall not be for an indefinite duration and 
     may be renewed only by Commission action.
       ``(ii)Definition.--In clause (i), the term `omnibus order 
     of investigation' means an order of the Commission 
     authorizing 1 of moremembers of the Commission or its staff 
     to issue subpoenas under subparagraph (A) to multiple persons 
     in relation to a particularsubject matter area.''.

     SEC. 209. APPLICABILITY OF NOTICE AND COMMENT REQUIREMENTS OF 
                   THEADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE ACT TO GUIDANCE 
                   VOTED ON BY THE COMMISSION.

       Section 2(a)(12) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7U.S.C. 
     2(a)(12)), as amended by sections 205 and 207 of this Act, is 
     amended by adding at the end the following:
       ``(D)Applicability of notice and comment rules to guidance 
     voted on by the commission.--The notice and comment 
     requirements ofsection 553 of title 5, United States Code, 
     shall also apply with respect to any Commission statement or 
     guidance, includinginterpretive rules, general statements of 
     policy, or rules of Commission organization, procedure, or 
     practice, that has theeffect of implementing, interpreting or 
     prescribing law or policy and that is voted on by the 
     Commission.''.

     SEC. 210. JUDICIAL REVIEW OF COMMISSION RULES.

       The Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.) isamended 
     by adding at the end the following:

     ``SEC. 24. JUDICIAL REVIEW OF COMMISSIONRULES.

       ``(a) A person adversely affected by a rule of the 
     Commission promulgated under this Act may obtain review of 
     therule in the United States Court of Appeals for the 
     District of Columbia Circuit or the United States Court of 
     Appeals for thecircuit where the party resides or has the 
     principal place of business, by filing in the court, within 
     60 days after publicationin the Federal Register of the entry 
     of the rule, a written petition requesting that the rule be 
     set aside.
       ``(b) A copy ofthe petition shall be transmitted forthwith 
     by the clerk of the court to an officer designated by the 
     Commission for thatpurpose. Thereupon the Commission shall 
     file in the court the record on which the rule complained of 
     is entered, as provided insection 2112 of title 28, United 
     States Code, and the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure.
       ``(c) On the filing of thepetition, the court has 
     jurisdiction, which becomes exclusive on the filing of the 
     record, to affirm and enforce or to set asidethe rule in 
     whole or in part.
       ``(d) The court shall affirm and enforce the rule unless 
     the Commission's action inpromulgating the rule is found to 
     be arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or 
     otherwise not in accordance with law;contrary to 
     constitutional right, power, privilege, or immunity; in 
     excess of statutory jurisdiction, authority, or 
     limitations,or short of statutory right; or without 
     observance of procedure required by law.''.

     SEC. 211.GAO STUDY ON USE OF COMMISSION RESOURCES.

       (a) Study.--The Comptroller General of the United States 
     shall conduct a studyof the resources of the Commodity 
     Futures Trading Commission that--
       (1) assesses whether the resources of the Commission 
     aresufficient to enable the Commission to effectively carry 
     out the duties of the Commission;
       (2) examines the expenditures ofthe Commission on hardware, 
     software, and analytical processes designed to protect 
     customers in the areas of--
       (A) marketsurveillance and risk detection; and
       (B) market data collection, aggregation, interpretation, 
     standardization,harmonization, and streamlining;
       (3) analyzes the additional workload undertaken by the 
     Commission, and ascertains whereself-regulatory organizations 
     could be more effectively utilized; and
       (4) examines existing and emerging post-trade riskreduction 
     services in the swaps market, the notional amount of risk 
     reduction transactions provided by the services, and 
     theeffects the services have on financial stability, 
     including--
       (A) market surveillance and risk detection;
       (B) market datacollection, aggregation, interpretation, 
     standardization, harmonization, and streamlining; and
       (C) oversight and compliancework by market participants and 
     regulators.
       (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
     enactment of thisAct, the Comptroller General of the United 
     States shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture of the 
     House of Representativesand the Committee on Agriculture, 
     Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate a report that contains 
     the results of the study requiredby subsection (a).

     SEC. 212. DISCLOSURE OF REQUIRED DATA OF OTHER 
                   REGISTEREDENTITIES.

       Section 8 of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 12) is 
     amended by adding at the end the following:
       ``(j)Disclosure of Required Data of Other Registered 
     Entities.--
       ``(1) Except as provided in this subsection, the 
     Commissionmay not be compelled to disclose any proprietary 
     information provided to the Commission, except that nothing 
     in thissubsection--
       ``(A) authorizes the Commission to withhold information 
     from Congress; or
       ``(B) prevents the Commissionfrom--
       ``(i) complying with a request for information from any 
     other Federal department or agency, any State or 
     politicalsubdivision thereof, or any foreign government or 
     any department, agency, or political subdivision thereof 
     requesting the reportor information for purposes within the 
     scope of its jurisdiction, upon an agreement of 
     confidentiality to protect theinformation in a manner 
     consistent with this paragraph and subsection (e); or
       ``(ii) making a disclosure made pursuant to acourt order in 
     connection with an administrative or judicial proceeding 
     brought under this Act, in any receivership 
     proceedinginvolving a receiver appointed in a judicial 
     proceeding brought under this Act, or in any bankruptcy 
     proceeding in which theCommission has intervened or in which 
     the Commission has the right to appear and be heard under 
     title 11 of the United StatesCode.
       ``(2) Any proprietary information of a commodity trading 
     advisor or commodity pool operator ascertained by 
     theCommission in connection with Form CPO-PQR, Form CTA-PR, 
     and any successor forms thereto, shall be subject to the 
     samelimitations on public disclosure, as any facts 
     ascertained during an investigation, as provided by 
     subsection (a); provided,however, that the Commission shall 
     not be precluded from publishing aggregate information 
     compiled from such forms, to theextent such aggregate 
     information does not identify any individual person or firm, 
     or such person's proprietaryinformation.
       ``(3) For purposes of section 552 of title 5, United States 
     Code, this subsection, and the informationcontemplated 
     herein, shall be considered a statute described in subsection 
     (b)(3)(B) of such section 552.
       ``(4) For purposesof the definition of proprietary 
     information in paragraph (5), the records and reports of any 
     client account or commodity poolto which a commodity trading 
     advisor or commodity pool operator registered under this 
     title provides services that are filedwith the Commission on 
     Form CPO-PQR, CTA-PR, and any successor forms thereto, shall 
     be deemed to be the records and reports ofthe commodity 
     trading advisor or commodity pool operator, respectively.
       ``(5) For purposes of this section, proprietaryinformation 
     of a commodity trading advisor or commodity pool operator 
     includes sensitive, non-public informationregarding--
       ``(A) the commodity trading advisor, commodity pool 
     operator or the trading strategies of the commodity 
     tradingadvisor or commodity pool operator;
       ``(B) analytical or research methodologies of a commodity 
     trading advisor or commoditypool operator;
       ``(C) trading data of a commodity trading advisor or 
     commodity pool operator; and
       ``(D) computer hardwareor software containing intellectual 
     property of a commodity trading advisor or commodity pool 
     operator;''.

                       TITLE III--END-USER RELIEF

     SEC. 301. TRANSACTIONS WITH UTILITY SPECIALENTITIES.

       Section 1a(49) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 
     1a(49)) is amended by adding at the end thefollowing:
       ``(E) Certain transactions with a utility special entity.--
       ``(i) Transactions in utility operations-related swaps 
     shall be reported pursuant to section 4r.
       ``(ii) In making a determination to exempt pursuant to 
     subparagraph(D), the Commission shall treat a utility 
     operations-related swap entered into with a utility special 
     entity, as defined insection 4s(h)(2)(D), as if it were 
     entered into with an entity that is not a special entity, as 
     defined in section 4s(h)(2)(C).''.

     SEC. 302. UTILITY SPECIAL ENTITY DEFINED.

       Section 4s(h)(2) of the CommodityExchange Act (7 U.S.C. 
     6s(h)(2)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
       ``(D) Utility special entity.--Forpurposes of this Act, the 
     term `utility special entity' means a special entity, or any 
     instrumentality, department, orcorporation of or established 
     by a State or political subdivision of a State, that--
       ``(i) owns or operates, or anticipatesowning or operating, 
     an electric or natural gas facility or an electric or natural 
     gas operation;
       ``(ii) supplies, oranticipates supplying, natural gas and 
     or electric energy to another utility special entity;
       ``(iii) has, or anticipateshaving, public service 
     obligations under Federal, State, or local law or regulation 
     to deliver electric energy or natural gasservice to 
     customers; or
       ``(iv) is a Federal power marketing agency, as defined in 
     section 3 of the Federal PowerAct.''.

     SEC. 303. UTILITY OPERATIONS-RELATED SWAP.

       (a) Swap Further Defined.--Section1a(47)(A)(iii) of the 
     Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(47)(A)(iii)) is amended--
       (1) by striking ``and'' at the end ofsubclause (XXI);
       (2) by adding ``and'' at the end of subclause (XXII); and
       (3) by adding at the end thefollowing:

       ``(XXIII) a utility operations-related swap;''.

       (b) Utility Operations-Related Swap Defined.--Section 1aof 
     such Act (7 U.S.C. 1a) is amended by adding at the end the 
     following:
       ``(52) Utility operations-related swap.--Theterm `utility 
     operations-related swap' means a swap that--
       ``(A) is entered into by a utility to hedge or mitigate 
     acommercial risk;
       ``(B) is not a contract, agreement, or transaction based 
     on, derived on, or referencing--
       ``(i) aninterest rate, credit, equity, or currency asset 
     class;
       ``(ii) except as used for fuel for electric energy 
     generation, ametal, agricultural commodity, or crude oil or 
     gasoline commodity of any grade; or
       ``(iii) any other commodity or categoryof commodities 
     identified for this purpose in a rule or order adopted by the 
     Commission in consultation with the appropriateFederal and 
     State regulatory commissions; and

[[Page H417]]

       ``(C) is associated with--
       ``(i) the generation, production,purchase, or sale of 
     natural gas or electric energy, the supply of natural gas or 
     electric energy to a utility, or the deliveryof natural gas 
     or electric energy service to utility customers;
       ``(ii) fuel supply for the facilities or operations of 
     autility;
       ``(iii) compliance with an electric system reliability 
     obligation;
       ``(iv) compliance with an energy, energyefficiency, 
     conservation, or renewable energy or environmental statute, 
     regulation, or government order applicable to a utility;or
       ``(v) any other electric energy or natural gas swap to 
     which a utility is a party.''.

     SEC. 304. END-USERS NOT TREATED AS FINANCIAL ENTITIES.

       (a) In General.--Section 2(h)(7)(C)(iii) of the 
     CommodityExchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2(h)(7)(C)(iii)) is amended 
     to read as follows:
       ``(iii) Limitation.--Such definition shall notinclude an 
     entity--

       ``(I) whose primary business is providing financing, and 
     who uses derivatives for the purpose of hedgingunderlying 
     commercial risks related to interest rate and foreign 
     currency exposures, 90 percent or more of which arise 
     fromfinancing that facilitates the purchase or lease of 
     products, 90 percent or more of which are manufactured by the 
     parent companyor another subsidiary of the parent company; or
       ``(II) who is not supervised by a prudential regulator, and 
     is not describedin any of subclauses (I) through (VII) of 
     clause (i), and--

       ``(aa) is a commercial market participant; or
       ``(bb) entersinto swaps, contracts for future delivery, and 
     other derivatives on behalf of, or to hedge or mitigate the 
     commercial risk of,whether directly or in the aggregate, 
     affiliates that are not so supervised or described.''.
       (b) Commercial MarketParticipant Defined.--
       (1) In general.--Section 1a of such Act (7 U.S.C. 1a), as 
     amended by section 303(b) of this Act,is amended by 
     redesignating paragraphs (7) through (52) as paragraphs (8) 
     through (53), respectively, and by inserting afterparagraph 
     (6) the following:
       ``(7) Commercial market participant.--The term `commercial 
     market participant' means anyproducer, processor, merchant, 
     or commercial user of an exempt or agricultural commodity, or 
     the products or byproducts of sucha commodity.''.
       (2) Conforming amendments.--
       (A) Section 1a of such Act (7 U.S.C. 1a) is amended--
       (i) insubparagraph (A) of paragraph (18) (as so 
     redesignated by paragraph (1) of this subsection), in the 
     matter preceding clause (i),by striking ``(18)(A)'' and 
     inserting ``(19)(A)''; and
       (ii) in subparagraph (A)(vii) of paragraph (19) (as so 
     redesignatedby paragraph (1) of this subsection), in the 
     matter following subclause (III), by striking ``(17)(A)'' and 
     inserting ``(18)(A)''.
       (B) Section 4(c)(1)(A)(i)(I) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 
     6(c)(1)(A)(i)(I)) is amended by striking ``(7), paragraph 
     (18)(A)(vii)(III), paragraphs (23), (24), (31), (32), (38), 
     (39), (41), (42), (46), (47), (48), and (49)'' and inserting 
     ``(8),paragraph (19)(A)(vii)(III), paragraphs (24), (25), 
     (32), (33), (39), (40), (42), (43), (47), (48), (49), and 
     (50)''.
       (C)Section 4q(a)(1) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 6o-1(a)(1)) is 
     amended by striking ``1a(9)'' and inserting ``1a(10)''.
       (D) Section4s(f)(1)(D) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 6s(f)(1)(D)) 
     is amended by striking ``1a(47)(A)(v)'' and inserting 
     ``1a(48)(A)(v)''.
       (E)Section 4s(h)(5)(A)(i) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 
     6s(h)(5)(A)(i)) is amended by striking ``1a(18)'' and 
     inserting ``1a(19)''.
       (F)Section 4t(b)(1)(C) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 6t(b)(1)(C)) 
     is amended by striking ``1a(47)(A)(v)'' and inserting 
     ``1a(48)(A)(v)''.
       (G) Section 5(d)(23) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 7(d)(23)) is 
     amended by striking ``1a(47)(A)(v)'' and inserting 
     ``1a(48)(A)(v)''.
       (H) Section 5(e)(1) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 7(e)(1)) is 
     amended by striking ``1a(9)'' and inserting``1a(10)''.
       (I) Section 5b(k)(3)(A) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 7a-
     1(k)(3)(A)) is amended by striking ``1a(47)(A)(v)'' 
     andinserting ``1a(48)(A)(v)''.
       (J) Section 5h(f)(10)(A)(iii) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 7b-
     3(f)(10)(A)(iii)) is amended bystriking ``1a(47)(A)(v)'' and 
     inserting ``1a(48)(A)(v)''.
       (K) Section 21(f)(4)(C) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 24a(f)(4)(C)) 
     isamended by striking ``1a(48)'' and inserting ``1a(49)''.

     SEC. 305. REPORTING OF ILLIQUIDSWAPS SO AS TO NOT 
                   DISADVANTAGE CERTAINON-FINANCIAL END-USERS.

       Section 2(a)(13) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 
     2(a)(13)) is amended--
       (1) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``The Commission'' and 
     inserting ``Except as provided in subparagraph(D), the 
     Commission''; and
       (2) by redesignating subparagraphs (D) through (G) as 
     subparagraphs (E) through (H),respectively, and inserting 
     after subparagraph (C) the following:
       ``(D) Requirements for swap transactions in 
     illiquidmarkets.--Notwithstanding subparagraph (C):
       ``(i) The Commission shall provide by rule for the public 
     reporting of swaptransactions, including price and volume 
     data, in illiquid markets that are not cleared and entered 
     into by a non-financialentity that is hedging or mitigating 
     commercial risk in accordance with subsection (h)(7)(A).
       ``(ii) The Commission shallensure that the swap transaction 
     information referred to in clause (i) of this subparagraph is 
     available to the public no soonerthan 30 days after the swap 
     transaction has been executed or at such later date as the 
     Commission determines appropriate toprotect the identity of 
     participants and positions in illiquid markets and to prevent 
     the elimination or reduction of marketliquidity.
       ``(iii) In this subparagraph, the term `illiquid markets' 
     means any market in which the volume and frequency oftrading 
     in swaps is at such a level as to allow identification of 
     individual market participants.''.

     SEC. 306. RELIEF FOR GRAIN ELEVATOR OPERATORS, FARMERS, 
                   AGRICULTURAL COUNTERPARTIES, AND COMMERCIAL 
                   MARKETPARTICIPANTS.

       The Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.) is amended 
     by inserting after section 4t thefollowing:

     ``SEC. 4U. RECORDKEEPING REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO NON-
                   REGISTERED MEMBERS OFCERTAIN REGISTERED 
                   ENTITIES.

       ``Except as provided in section 4(a)(3), a member of a 
     designated contract market or a swapexecution facility that 
     is not registered with the Commission and not required to be 
     registered with the Commission in anycapacity shall satisfy 
     the recordkeeping requirements of this Act and any 
     recordkeeping rule, order, or regulation under thisAct by 
     maintaining a written record of each transaction in a 
     contract for future delivery, option on a future, swap, 
     swaption,trade option, or related cash or forward 
     transaction. The written record shall be sufficient if it 
     includes the final agreementbetween the parties and the 
     material economic terms of the transaction.''.

     SEC. 307. RELIEFFOR END-USERS WHO USE PHYSICAL CONTRACTS WITH 
                   VOLUMETRIC OPTIONALITY.

       Section 1a(48)(B)(ii) of the Commodity Exchange Act 
     (7U.S.C. 1a(47)(B)(ii)), as so redesignated by section 
     304(b)(1) of this Act, is amended to read as follows:
       ``(ii) anypurchase or sale of a nonfinancial commodity or 
     security for deferred shipment or delivery, so long as the 
     transaction isintended to be physically settled, including 
     any stand-alone or embedded option for which exercise results 
     in a physicaldelivery obligation;''.

     SEC. 308. COMMISSION VOTE REQUIRED BEFORE AUTOMATIC CHANGE OF 
                   SWAPDEALER DE MINIMIS LEVEL.

       Section 1a(50)(D) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 
     1a(49)(D)), as so redesignated by section304(b)(1) of this 
     Act, is amended--
       (1) by striking all that precedes ``shall exempt'' and 
     inserting the following:
       ``(D)Exception.--
       ``(i) In general.--The Commission''; and
       (2) by adding after and below the end the following 
     newclause:
       ``(ii) De minimis quantity.--The de minimis quantity of 
     swap dealing described in clause (i) shall be set at 
     aquantity of $8,000,000,000, and may be amended or changed 
     only through a new affirmative action of the Commission 
     undertaken byrule or regulation.''.

     SEC. 309. CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS FOR NON-BANK SWAP DEALERS.

       (a)Commodity Exchange Act.--Section 4s(e) of the Commodity 
     Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 6s(e)) is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (2)(B), by striking ``shall'' and 
     inserting the following: ``and the Securities and Exchange 
     Commission, in consultation with theprudential regulators, 
     shall jointly''; and
       (2) in paragraph (3)(D)--
       (A) in clause (ii), by striking ``shall, to themaximum 
     extent practicable,'' and inserting ``shall''; and
       (B) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(iii) Financialmodels.--To the extent that swap dealers 
     and major swap participants that are banks are permitted to 
     use financial modelsapproved by the prudential regulators or 
     the Securities and Exchange Commission to calculate minimum 
     capital requirements andminimum initial and variation margin 
     requirements, including the use of non-cash collateral, the 
     Commission shall, inconsultation with the prudential 
     regulators and the Securities and Exchange Commission, permit 
     the use of comparable financialmodels by swap dealers and 
     major swap participants that are not banks.''.
       (b) Securities Exchange Act of 1934.--Section15F(e) of the 
     Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(e)) is 
     amended--
       (1) in paragraph (2)(B), by striking``shall'' and inserting 
     the following: ``and the Commodity Futures Trading 
     Commission, in consultation with the prudentialregulators, 
     shall jointly''; and
       (2) in paragraph (3)(D)--
       (A) in clause (ii), by striking ``shall, to the maximum 
     extentpracticable,'' and inserting ``shall''; and
       (B) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(iii) Financial models.--Tothe extent that security-based 
     swap dealers and major security-based swap participants that 
     are banks are permitted to usefinancial models approved by 
     the prudential regulators or the Commodity Futures Trading 
     Commission to calculate minimum capitalrequirements and 
     minimum initial and variation margin requirements, including 
     the use of non-cash collateral, the Commissionshall, in 
     consultation with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 
     permit the use of comparable financial models by security-
     based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants 
     that are not banks.''.

     SEC.310. HARMONIZATION WITH THE JUMPSTART OUR BUSINESS 
                   STARTUPS ACT.

       Within 90 days after the date of the enactment of this 
     Act,the Commodity Futures Trading Commission shall--
       (1) revise section 4.7(b) of title 17, Code of Federal 
     Regulations, in thematter preceding paragraph (1), to read as 
     follows:
       ``(b) Relief available to commodity pool operators. Upon 
     filing thenotice required by paragraph (d) of this section, 
     and subject to compliance with the conditions specified in 
     paragraph (d) ofthis section, any registered commodity pool 
     operator who sells participations in a pool solely to 
     qualified eligible persons inan offering

[[Page H418]]

     which qualifies for exemption from the registration 
     requirements of the Securities Act pursuant to section4(2) of 
     that Act or pursuant to Regulation S, 17 CFR 230.901 et seq., 
     and any bank registered as a commodity pool operator 
     inconnection with a pool that is a collective trust fund 
     whose securities are exempt from registration under the 
     Securities Actpursuant to section 3(a)(2) of that Act and are 
     sold solely to qualified eligible persons, may claim any or 
     all of the followingrelief with respect to such pool:''; and
       (2) revise section 4.13(a)(3)(i) of such title to read as 
     follows:
       ``(i)Interests in the pool are exempt from registration 
     under the Securities Act of 1933, and such interests are 
     offered and soldpursuant to section 4 of the Securities Act 
     of 1933 and the regulations thereunder;''.

     SEC.311. BONA FIDE HEDGE DEFINED TO PROTECT END-USER RISK 
                   MANAGEMENT NEEDS.

       Section 4a(c) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7U.S.C. 6a(c)) 
     is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1)--
       (A) by striking ``may'' and inserting ``shall''; and
       (B) by striking``future for which'' and inserting ``future, 
     to be determined by the Commission, for which either an 
     appropriate swap isavailable or'';
       (2) in paragraph (2)--
       (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking 
     ``subsection (a)(2)''and all that follows through ``position 
     as'' and inserting ``paragraphs (2) and (5) of subsection (a) 
     for swaps, contracts ofsale for future delivery, or options 
     on the contracts or commodities, a bona fide hedging 
     transaction or position is'';and
       (B) in subparagraph (A)(ii), by striking ``of risks'' and 
     inserting ``or management of current or anticipated 
     risks'';and
       (3) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(3) The Commission may further define, by rule or 
     regulation, whatconstitutes a bona fide hedging transaction, 
     provided that the rule or regulation is consistent with the 
     requirements ofsubparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (2).''.

     SEC. 312. CROSS-BORDER REGULATION OFDERIVATIVES TRANSACTIONS.

       (a) Rulemaking Required.--Within 1 year after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, theCommodity Futures Trading 
     Commission shall issue a rule that addresses--
       (1) the nature of the connections to the UnitedStates that 
     require a non-United States person to register as a swap 
     dealer or a major swap participant under the 
     CommodityExchange Act and the regulations issued under such 
     Act;
       (2) which of the United States swaps requirements apply to 
     the swapactivities of non-United States persons and United 
     States persons and their branches, agencies, subsidiaries, 
     and affiliatesoutside of the United States, and the extent to 
     which the requirements apply; and
       (3) the circumstances under which a UnitedStates person or 
     non-United States person in compliance with the swaps 
     regulatory requirements of a foreign jurisdiction shallbe 
     exempt from United States swaps requirements.
       (b) Content of the Rule.--
       (1) Criteria.--In the rule, theCommission shall establish 
     criteria for determining that 1 or more categories of the 
     swaps regulatory requirements of a foreignjurisdiction are 
     comparable to and as comprehensive as United States swaps 
     requirements. The criteria shall include--
       (A) thescope and objectives of the swaps regulatory 
     requirements of the foreign jurisdiction;
       (B) the effectiveness of thesupervisory compliance program 
     administered;
       (C) the enforcement authority exercised by the foreign 
     jurisdiction;and
       (D) such other factors as the Commission, by rule, 
     determines to be necessary or appropriate in the 
     publicinterest.
       (2) Comparability.--In the rule, the Commission shall--
       (A) provide that any non-United States person orany 
     transaction between 2 non-United States persons shall be 
     exempt from United States swaps requirements if the person 
     ortransaction is in compliance with the swaps regulatory 
     requirements of a foreign jurisdiction which the Commission 
     hasdetermined to be comparable to and as comprehensive as 
     United States swaps requirements; and
       (B) set forth the circumstancesin which a United States 
     person or a transaction between a United States person and a 
     non-United States person shall be exemptfrom United States 
     swaps requirements if the person or transaction is in 
     compliance with the swaps regulatory requirements of aforeign 
     jurisdiction which the Commission has determined to be 
     comparable to and as comprehensive as United States 
     swapsrequirements.
       (3) Outcomes-based comparison.--In developing and applying 
     the criteria, the Commission shall emphasizethe results and 
     outcomes of, rather than the design and construction of, 
     foreign swaps regulatory requirements.
       (4) Risk-based rulemaking.--In the rule, the Commission 
     shall not take into account, for the purposes of determining 
     the applicabilityof United States swaps requirements, the 
     location of personnel that arrange, negotiate, or execute 
     swaps.
       (5) No part of anyrulemaking under this section shall limit 
     the Commission's antifraud or antimanipulation authority.
       (c) Application ofthe Rule.--
       (1) Assessments of foreign jurisdictions.--Beginning on the 
     date on which a final rule is issued under thissection, the 
     Commission shall begin to assess the swaps regulatory 
     requirements of foreign jurisdictions, in the order 
     theCommission determines appropriate, in accordance with the 
     criteria established pursuant to subsection (b)(1). Following 
     eachassessment, the Commission shall determine, by rule or by 
     order, whether the swaps regulatory requirements of the 
     foreignjurisdiction are comparable to and as comprehensive as 
     United States swaps requirements.
       (2) Substituted compliance forunassessed major markets.--
     Beginning 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act--
       (A) the swaps regulatoryrequirements of each of the 8 
     foreign jurisdictions with the largest swaps markets, as 
     calculated by notional value during the12-month period ending 
     with such date of enactment, except those with respect to 
     which a determination has been made underparagraph (1), shall 
     be considered to be comparable to and as comprehensive as 
     United States swaps requirements; and
       (B) anon-United States person or a transaction between 2 
     non-United States persons shall be exempt from United States 
     swapsrequirements if the person or transaction is in 
     compliance with the swaps regulatory requirements of any of 
     such unexceptedforeign jurisdictions.
       (3) Suspension of substituted compliance.--If the 
     Commission determines, by rule or by order,that--
       (A) the swaps regulatory requirements of a foreign 
     jurisdiction are not comparable to and as comprehensive as 
     UnitedStates swaps requirements, using the categories and 
     criteria established under subsection (b)(1);
       (B) the foreignjurisdiction does not exempt from its swaps 
     regulatory requirements United States persons who are in 
     compliance with UnitedStates swaps requirements; or
       (C) the foreign jurisdiction is not providing equivalent 
     recognition of, or substitutedcompliance for, registered 
     entities (as defined in section 1a(41) of the Commodity 
     Exchange Act) domiciled in the UnitedStates,
     the Commission may suspend, in whole or in part, a 
     determination made under paragraph (1) or a consideration 
     grantedunder paragraph (2).
       (d) Petition for Review of Foreign Jurisdiction 
     Practices.--A registered entity, commercial marketparticipant 
     (as defined in section 1a(7) of the Commodity Exchange Act), 
     or Commission registrant (within the meaning of suchAct) who 
     petitions the Commission to make or change a determination 
     under subsection (c)(1) or (c)(3) of this section shall 
     beentitled to expedited consideration of the petition. A 
     petition shall include any evidence or other supporting 
     materials tojustify why the petitioner believes the 
     Commission should make or change the determination. Petitions 
     under this section shallbe considered by the Commission any 
     time following the enactment of this Act. Within 180 days 
     after receipt of a petition for arulemaking under this 
     section, the Commission shall take final action on the 
     petition. Within 90 days after receipt of apetition to issue 
     an order or change an order issued under this section, the 
     Commission shall take final action on thepetition.
       (e) Report to Congress.--If the Commission makes a 
     determination described in this section through an order,the 
     Commission shall articulate the basis for the determination 
     in a written report published in the Federal Register 
     andtransmitted to the Committee on Agriculture of the House 
     of Representatives and Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
     andForestry of the Senate within 15 days of the 
     determination. The determination shall not be effective until 
     15 days after thecommittees receive the report.
       (f) Definitions.--As used in this Act and for purposes of 
     the rules issued pursuant tothis Act, the following 
     definitions apply:
       (1) United states person.--The term ``United States 
     person''--
       (A)means--
       (i) any natural person resident in the United States;
       (ii) any partnership, corporation, trust, or other 
     legalperson organized or incorporated under the laws of the 
     United States or having its principal place of business in 
     the UnitedStates;
       (iii) any account (whether discretionary or non-
     discretionary) of a United States person; and
       (iv) any otherperson as the Commission may further define 
     to more effectively carry out the purposes of this section; 
     and
       (B) does notinclude the International Monetary Fund, the 
     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the 
     Inter-AmericanDevelopment Bank, the Asian Development Bank, 
     the African Development Bank, the United Nations, their 
     agencies or pension plans,or any other similar international 
     organizations or their agencies or pension plans.
       (2) United states swapsrequirements.--The term ``United 
     States swaps requirements'' means the provisions relating to 
     swaps contained in the CommodityExchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a et 
     seq.) that were added by title VII of the Dodd-Frank Wall 
     Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act(15 U.S.C. 8301 et 
     seq.) and any rules or regulations prescribed by the 
     Commodity Futures Trading Commission pursuant to 
     suchprovisions.
       (3) Foreign jurisdiction.--The term ``foreign 
     jurisdiction'' means any national or supranational 
     politicalentity with common rules governing swaps 
     transactions.
       (4) Swaps regulatory requirements.--The term ``swaps 
     regulatoryrequirements'' means any provisions of law, and any 
     rules or regulations pursuant to the provisions, governing 
     swapstransactions or the counterparties to swaps 
     transactions.
       (g) Conforming Amendment.--Section 4(c)(1)(A) of the 
     CommodityExchange Act (7 U.S.C. 6(c)(1)(A)) is amended by 
     inserting ``or except as necessary to effectuate the purposes 
     of the CommodityEnd-User Relief Act,'' after ``to grant 
     exemptions,''.

[[Page H419]]

  


     SEC. 313. EXEMPTION OFQUALIFIED CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS FROM 
                   DESIGNATION AND REGULATION AS COMMODITY POOL 
                   OPERATORS.

       (a) Exclusion FromDefinition of Commodity Pool.--Section 
     1a(11) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(10)), as so 
     redesignated by section304(b)(1) of this Act, is amended by 
     adding at the end the following:
       ``(C) Exclusion.--The term `commodity pool' shallnot 
     include any investment trust, syndicate, or similar form of 
     enterprise excluded from the definition of `investment 
     company'pursuant to section 3(c)(10) or 3(c)(14) of the 
     Investment Company Act of 1940.''.
       (b) Inapplicability of Prohibition onUse of 
     Instrumentalities of Interstate Commerce by Unregistered 
     Commodity Trading Advisor.--Section 4m of such Act (7 
     U.S.C.6m) is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1), in the second sentence, by inserting 
     ``: Provided further, That the provisionsof this section 
     shall not apply to any commodity trading advisor that is: (A) 
     a charitable organization, as defined in section3(c)(10)(D) 
     of the Investment Company Act of 1940, or a trustee, 
     director, officer, employee, or volunteer of such a 
     charitableorganization acting within the scope of the 
     employment or duties of the person with the organization, 
     whose trading advice isprovided only to, or with respect to, 
     1 or more of the following: (i) any such charitable 
     organization; or (ii) an investmenttrust, syndicate or 
     similar form of enterprise excluded from the definition of 
     `investment company' pursuant to section 3(c)(10)of the 
     Investment Company Act of 1940; or (B) any plan, company, or 
     account described in section 3(c)(14) of the 
     InvestmentCompany Act of 1940, any person or entity who 
     establishes or maintains such a plan, company, or account, or 
     any trustee,director, officer, employee, or volunteer for any 
     of the foregoing plans, persons, or entities acting within 
     the scope of theemployment or duties of the person with the 
     organization, whose trading advice is provided only to, or 
     with respect to, anyinvestment trust, syndicate, or similar 
     form of enterprise excluded from the definition of 
     `investment company' pursuant tosection 3(c)(14) of the 
     Investment Company Act of 1940'' before the period; and
       (2) by adding at the end thefollowing:
       ``(4) Disclosure Concerning Excluded Charitable 
     Organizations.--The operator of or advisor to any 
     investmenttrust, syndicate, or similar form of enterprise 
     excluded from the definition of `commodity pool' by reason of 
     section 1a(10)(C)of this Act pursuant to section 3(c)(10) of 
     the Investment Company Act of 1940 shall provide disclosure 
     in accordance withsection 7(e) of the Investment Company Act 
     of 1940.''.

     SEC. 314. SMALL BANK HOLDING COMPANYCLEARING EXEMPTION.

       Section 2(h)(7)(C) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 
     2(h)(7)(C)) is amended by adding at the endthe following:
       ``(iv) Holding companies.--A determination made by the 
     Commission under clause (ii) shall, with respectto small 
     banks and savings associations, also apply to their 
     respective bank holding company (as defined in section 2 of 
     theBank Holding Company Act of 1956), or savings and loan 
     holding company (as defined in section 10 of the Home Owners' 
     Loan Act of1933)), if the total consolidated assets of the 
     holding company are no greater than the asset threshold set 
     by the Commission indetermining small bank and savings 
     association eligibility under clause (ii).''.

     SEC. 315.CORE PRINCIPLE CERTAINTY.

       Section 5h(f) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7b-
     3(f)) is amended--
       (1) in paragraph(1)(B), by inserting ``except as described 
     in this subsection'' after ``Commission by rule or 
     regulation'';
       (2) in paragraph(2), by amending subparagraph (D) to read 
     as follows:
       ``(D) have reasonable discretion in establishing and 
     enforcing itsrules related to trade practice surveillance, 
     market surveillance, real-time marketing monitoring, and 
     audit trail given that aswap execution facility may offer a 
     trading system or platform to execute or trade swaps through 
     any means of interstatecommerce. A swap execution facility 
     shall be responsible for monitoring trading in swaps only on 
     its own facility.'';
       (3) inparagraph (4)(B), by adding at the end the following: 
     ``A swap execution facility shall be responsible for 
     monitoring trading inswaps only on its own facility.'';
       (4) in paragraph (6)(B)--
       (A) by striking ``shall--'' and all that follows 
     through``compliance with the'' and insert ``shall monitor the 
     trading activity on its facility for compliance with any''; 
     and
       (B)by adding at the end the following: ``A swap execution 
     facility shall be responsible for monitoring positions only 
     on its ownfacility.'';
       (5) in paragraph (8), by striking ``to liquidate'' and all 
     that follows and inserting ``to suspend or curtailtrading in 
     a swap on its own facility.'';
       (6) in paragraph (13)(B), by striking ``1-year period, as 
     calculated on a rollingbasis'' and inserting ``90-day period, 
     as calculated on a rolling basis, or conduct an orderly wind-
     down of its operations,whichever is greater''; and
       (7) in paragraph (15)--
       (A) in subparagraph (A), by adding at the end the 
     following: ``Theindividual may also perform other 
     responsibilities for the swap execution facility.'';
       (B) in subparagraph (B)--
       (i) inclause (i), by inserting ``, a committee of the 
     board,'' after ``directly to the board'';
       (ii) by striking clauses (iii)through (v) and inserting the 
     following:
       ``(iii) establish and administer policies and procedures 
     that are reasonablydesigned to resolve any conflicts of 
     interest that may arise;
       ``(iv) establish and administer policies and procedures 
     thatreasonably ensure compliance with this Act and the rules 
     and regulations issued under this Act, including rules 
     prescribed bythe Commission pursuant to this section; and''; 
     and
       (iii) by redesignating clause (vi) as clause (v);
       (C) insubparagraph (C), by striking ``(B)(vi)'' and 
     inserting ``(B)(v)''; and
       (D) in subparagraph (D)--
       (i) in clause (i)--

       (I) by striking ``In accordance with rules prescribed by 
     the Commission, the'' and inserting ``The''; and
       (II) bystriking ``and sign''; and

       (ii) in clause (ii)--

       (I) in the matter preceding subclause (I), by inserting 
     ``or seniorofficer'' after ``officer'';
       (II) by amending subclause (I) to read as follows:
       ``(I) submit each report described inclause (i) to the 
     Commission; and''; and
       (III) in subclause (II), by inserting ``materially'' 
     before``accurate''.

     SEC. 316. TREATMENT OF FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK PRODUCTS.

       (a) Section 1a(2)of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 
     1a(2)) is amended--
       (1) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``and'';
       (2) insubparagraph (C), by striking the period and 
     inserting ``; and''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(D) isthe Federal Housing Finance Agency for any Federal 
     Home Loan Bank (as defined in section 2 of the Federal Home 
     Loan BankAct).''.
       (b) Section 402(a) of the Legal Certainty for Bank Products 
     Act of 2000 (7 U.S.C. 27(a)) is amended--
       (1) bystriking ``or'' at the end of paragraph (6);
       (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (7) and 
     inserting ``; or'';and
       (3) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(8) any Federal Home Loan Bank (as defined in section 2 
     of the FederalHome Loan Bank Act).''.

     SEC. 317. TREATMENT OF CERTAIN FUNDS.

       (a) Amendment to theDefinition of Commodity Pool 
     Operator.--Section 1a(12) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 
     U.S.C. 1a(11)), as so redesignated bysection 304(b)(1) of 
     this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following:
       ``(C)(i) The term `commodity pool operator'does not include 
     a person who serves as an investment adviser to an investment 
     company registered pursuant to section 8 of theInvestment 
     Company Act of 1940 or a subsidiary of such a company, if the 
     investment company or subsidiary invests, reinvests,owns, 
     holds, or trades in commodity interests limited to only 
     financial commodity interests.
       ``(ii) For purposes of thissubparagraph only, the term 
     `financial commodity interest' means a futures contract, an 
     option on a futures contract, or a swap,involving a commodity 
     that is not an exempt commodity or an agricultural commodity, 
     including any index of financial commodityinterests, whether 
     cash settled or involving physical delivery.
       ``(iii) For purposes of this subparagraph only, the 
     term`commodity' does not include a security issued by a real 
     estate investment trust, business development company, or 
     issuer ofasset-backed securities, including any index of such 
     securities.''.
       (b) Amendment to the Definition of Commodity 
     TradingAdvisor.--Section 1a(13) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 
     1a(12)), as so redesignated by section 304(b)(1) of this Act, 
     is amended byadding at the end the following:
       ``(E) The term `commodity trading advisor' does not include 
     a person who serves as aninvestment adviser to an investment 
     company registered pursuant to section 8 of the Investment 
     Company Act of 1940 or asubsidiary of such a company, if the 
     commodity trading advice relates only to a financial 
     commodity interest, as defined inparagraph (12)(C)(ii) of 
     this section. For purposes of this subparagraph only, the 
     term `commodity' does not include a securityissued by a real 
     estate investment trust, business development company, or 
     issuer of asset-backed securities, including anyindex of such 
     securities.''.

                    TITLE IV--TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS

     SEC. 401. CORRECTION OF REFERENCES.

       (a) Section 2(h)(8)(A)(ii) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 
     U.S.C. 2(h)(8)(A)(ii))is amended by striking ``5h(f) of this 
     Act'' and inserting ``5h(g)''.
       (b) Section 5c(c)(5)(C)(i) of such Act (7 U.S.C.7a-
     2(c)(5)(C)(i)) is amended by striking ``1a(2)(i))'' and 
     inserting ``1a(19)(i))''.
       (c) Section 23(f) of such Act (7U.S.C. 26(f)) is amended by 
     striking ``section 7064'' and inserting ``section 706''.

     SEC.402. ELIMINATION OF OBSOLETE REFERENCES TO DEALER 
                   OPTIONS.

       (a) In General.--Section 4c of the Commodity Exchange Act 
     (7U.S.C. 6c) is amended by striking subsections (d) and (e) 
     and redesignating subsections (f) and (g) as subsections (d) 
     and (e),respectively.
       (b) Conforming Amendments.--
       (1) Section 2(d) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 2(d)) is amended by 
     striking ``(g)of'' and inserting ``(e) of''.
       (2) Section 4f(a)(4)(A)(i) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 
     6f(a)(4)(A)(i)) is amended by striking ``,(d), (e), and (g)'' 
     and inserting ``and (e)''.
       (3) Section 4k(5)(A) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 6k(5)(A)) is 
     amended by striking``, (d), (e), and (g)'' and inserting 
     ``and (e)''.
       (4) Section 5f(b)(1)(A) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 7b-
     1(b)(1)(A)) is amendedby striking ``, (e), and (g)'' and 
     inserting ``and (e)''.
       (5) Section 9(a)(2) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 13(a)(2)) is 
     amended bystriking ``through (e)'' and inserting ``and (c)''.

     SEC. 403. UPDATED TRADE DATA PUBLICATIONREQUIREMENT.

       Section 4g(e) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 
     6g(e)) is amended by striking ``exchange'' and 
     inserting``each designated contract market and swap execution 
     facility''.

[[Page H420]]

  


     SEC. 404.FLEXIBILITY FOR REGISTERED ENTITIES.

       Section 5c(b) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7a-
     2(b)) is amended by striking``contract market, derivatives 
     transaction execution facility, or electronic trading 
     facility'' each place it appears andinserting ``registered 
     entity''.

     SEC. 405. ELIMINATION OF OBSOLETE REFERENCES TO 
                   ELECTRONICTRADING FACILITIES.

       (a) Section 1a(19)(A)(x) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 
     U.S.C. 1a(18)(A)(x)), as so redesignated bysection 304(b)(1) 
     of this Act, is amended by striking ``(other than an 
     electronic trading facility with respect to a 
     significantprice discovery contract)''.
       (b) Section 1a(40) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(41)), as so 
     redesignated by section 304(b)(1) ofthis Act, is amended--
       (1) by adding ``and'' at the end of subparagraph (D); and
       (2) by striking all that follows``section 21'' and 
     inserting a period.
       (c) Section 4a(e) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 6a(e)) is amended--
       (1) in the firstsentence--
       (A) by striking ``or by any electronic trading facility'';
       (B) by striking ``or on an electronic tradingfacility''; 
     and
       (C) by striking ``or electronic trading facility'' each 
     place it appears; and
       (2) in the secondsentence, by striking ``or electronic 
     trading facility with respect to a significant price 
     discovery contract''.
       (d) Section4g(a) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 6g(a)) is amended by 
     striking ``any significant price discovery contract traded or 
     executed on anelectronic trading facility or''.
       (e) Section 4i of such Act (7 U.S.C. 6i) is amended--
       (1) by striking ``, or anysignificant price discovery 
     contract traded or executed on an electronic trading facility 
     or any agreement, contract, ortransaction that is treated by 
     a derivatives clearing organization, whether registered or 
     not registered, as fungible with asignificant price discovery 
     contract''; and
       (2) by striking ``or electronic trading facility''.
       (f) Section 6(b) of suchAct (7 U.S.C. 8(b)) is amended by 
     striking ``or electronic trading facility'' each place it 
     appears.
       (g) Section 12(e)(2) ofsuch Act (7 U.S.C. 16(e)(2)) is 
     amended by striking ``in the case of--'' and all that follows 
     and inserting ``in the case of anagreement, contract, or 
     transaction that is excluded from this Act under section 2(c) 
     or 2(f) of this Act or title IV of theCommodity Futures 
     Modernization Act of 2000, or exempted under section 4(c) of 
     this Act (regardless of whether any suchagreement, contract, 
     or transaction is otherwise subject to this Act).''.

     SEC. 406.ELIMINATION OF OBSOLETE REFERENCE TO ALTERNATIVE 
                   SWAP EXECUTION FACILITIES.

       Section 5h(h) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7U.S.C. 7b-
     3(h)) is amended by striking ``alternative'' before ``swap''.

     SEC. 407.ELIMINATION OF REDUNDANT REFERENCES TO TYPES OF 
                   REGISTERED ENTITIES.

       Section 6b of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 13a)is 
     amended in the first sentence by striking ``as set forth in 
     sections 5 through 5c''.

     SEC.408. CLARIFICATION OF COMMISSION AUTHORITY OVER SWAPS 
                   TRADING.

       Section 8a of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 12a) 
     isamended--
       (1) in paragraph (7)--
       (A) by inserting ``the protection of swaps traders and to 
     assure fair dealing in swaps,for'' after ``appropriate for'';
       (B) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``swaps or'' after 
     ``conditions in''; and
       (C) insubparagraph (B), by inserting ``or swaps'' after 
     ``future delivery''; and
       (2) in paragraph (9)--
       (A) by inserting ``swapor'' after ``or liquidation of 
     any''; and
       (B) by inserting ``swap or'' after ``margin levels on 
     any''.

     SEC. 409. ELIMINATION OF OBSOLETE REFERENCE TO THE COMMODITY 
                   EXCHANGE COMMISSION.

       Section 13(c) of theCommodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 
     13c(c)) is amended by striking ``or the Commission''.

     SEC.410. ELIMINATION OF OBSOLETE REFERENCES TO DERIVATIVE 
                   TRANSACTION EXECUTION FACILITIES.

       (a) Section 1a(13)(B)(vi) of theCommodity Exchange Act (7 
     U.S.C. 1a(12)(B)(vi)), as so redesignated by section 
     304(b)(1) of this Act, is amended by striking``derivatives 
     transaction execution facility'' and inserting ``swap 
     execution facility''.
       (b) Section 1a(35) of such Act (7U.S.C. 1a(34)), as so 
     redesignated by section 304(b)(1) of this Act, is amended by 
     striking ``or derivatives transactionexecution facility'' 
     each place it appears.
       (c) Section 1a(36)(B)(iii)(I) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 
     1a(35)(B)(iii)(I)), as soredesignated by section 304(b)(1) of 
     this Act, is amended by striking ``or registered derivatives 
     transaction executionfacility''.
       (d) Section 2(a)(1)(C)(ii) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 
     2(a)(1)(C)(ii)) is amended--
       (1) by striking ``, or registera derivatives transaction 
     execution facility that trades or executes,'';
       (2) by striking ``, and no derivatives transactionexecution 
     facility shall trade or execute such contracts of sale (or 
     options on such contracts) for future delivery'';and
       (3) by striking ``or the derivatives transaction execution 
     facility,''.
       (e) Section 2(a)(1)(C)(v)(I) of such Act (7U.S.C. 
     2(a)(1)(C)(v)(I)) is amended by striking ``, or any 
     derivatives transaction execution facility on which such 
     contract oroption is traded,''.
       (f) Section 2(a)(1)(C)(v)(II) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 
     2(a)(1)(C)(v)(II)) is amended by striking ``orderivatives 
     transaction execution facility'' each place it appears.
       (g) Section 2(a)(1)(C)(v)(V) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 
     2(a)(1)(C)(v)(V)) is amended by striking ``or registered 
     derivatives transaction execution facility''.
       (h) Section 2(a)(1)(D)(i)of such Act (7 U.S.C. 
     2(a)(1)(D)(i)) is amended in the matter preceding subclause 
     (I)--
       (1) by striking ``in, or register aderivatives transaction 
     execution facility''; and
       (2) by striking ``, or registered as a derivatives 
     transaction executionfacility for,''.
       (i) Section 2(a)(1)(D)(i)(IV) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 
     2(a)(1)(D)(i)(IV)) is amended by striking 
     ``registeredderivatives transaction execution facility,'' 
     each place it appears.
       (j) Section 2(a)(1)(D)(ii)(I) of such Act (7 
     U.S.C.2(a)(1)(D)(ii)(I)) is amended to read as follows:
       ``(I) the transaction is conducted on or subject to the 
     rules of a boardof trade that has been designated by the 
     Commission as a contract market in such security futures 
     product; or''.
       (k) Section2(a)(1)(D)(ii)(II) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 
     2(a)(1)(D)(ii)(II)) is amended by striking ``or registered 
     derivatives transactionexecution facility''.
       (l) Section 2(a)(1)(D)(ii)(III) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 
     2(a)(1)(D)(ii)(III)) is amended by striking ``orregistered 
     derivatives transaction execution facility member''.
       (m) Section 2(a)(9)(B)(ii) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 
     2(a)(9)(B)(ii)) is amended--
       (1) by striking ``or registration'' each place it appears;
       (2) by striking ``or derivativestransaction execution 
     facility'' each place it appears;
       (3) by striking ``or register'';
       (4) by striking ``,registering,''; and
       (5) by striking ``registration,''.
       (n) Section 2(c)(2) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)) is 
     amended bystriking ``or a derivatives transaction execution 
     facility''.
       (o) Section 4(a)(1) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 6(a)(1)) is 
     amendedby striking ``or derivatives transaction execution 
     facility'' each place it appears.
       (p) Section 4(c)(1) of such Act (7U.S.C. 6(c)(1)) is 
     amended--
       (1) by striking ``or registered'' after ``designated''; and
       (2) by striking ``or derivativestransaction execution 
     facility''.
       (q) Section 4a(a)(1) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 6a(a)(1)) is 
     amended--
       (1) by striking ``orderivatives transaction execution 
     facilities''; and
       (2) by striking ``or derivatives transaction 
     executionfacility''.
       (r) Section 4a(e) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 6a(e)) is amended--
       (1) by striking ``, derivatives transactionexecution 
     facility,'' each place it appears; and
       (2) by striking ``or derivatives transaction execution 
     facility''.
       (s)Section 4c(e) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 6c(g)), as so 
     redesignated by section 402(a) of this Act, is amended by 
     striking ``orderivatives transaction execution facility'' 
     each place it appears.
       (t) Section 4d of such Act (7 U.S.C. 6d) is amended 
     bystriking ``or derivatives transaction execution facility'' 
     each place it appears.
       (u) Section 4e of such Act (7 U.S.C. 6e)is amended by 
     striking ``or derivatives transaction execution facility''.
       (v) Section 4f(b) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 6f(b)) isamended by 
     striking ``or derivatives transaction execution facility'' 
     each place it appears.
       (w) Section 4i of such Act (7U.S.C. 6i) is amended by 
     striking ``or derivatives transaction execution facility''.
       (x) Section 4j(a) of such Act (7 U.S.C.6j(a)) is amended by 
     striking ``and registered derivatives transaction execution 
     facility''.
       (y) Section 4p(a) of such Act(7 U.S.C. 6p(a)) is amended by 
     striking ``, or derivatives transaction execution 
     facilities''.
       (z) Section 4p(b) of such Act(7 U.S.C. 6p(b)) is amended by 
     striking ``derivatives transaction execution facility,''.
       (aa) Section 5c(f) of such Act (7U.S.C. 7a-2(f)) is amended 
     by striking ``and registered derivatives transaction 
     execution facility''.
       (bb) Section 5c(f)(1) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 7a-2(f)(1)) is 
     amended by striking ``or registered derivatives transaction 
     executionfacility''.
       (cc) Section 6 of such Act (7 U.S.C. 8) is amended--
       (1) by striking ``or registered'';
       (2) by striking``or derivatives transaction execution 
     facility'' each place it appears; and
       (3) by striking ``or registration'' each placeit appears.
       (dd) Section 6a(a) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 10a(a)) is 
     amended--
       (1) by striking ``or registered'';
       (2) bystriking ``or a derivatives transaction execution 
     facility''; and
       (3) by inserting ``shall'' before ``exclude'' the 
     firstplace it appears.
       (ee) Section 6a(b) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 10a(b)) is 
     amended--
       (1) by striking ``or registered'';and
       (2) by striking ``or a derivatives transaction execution 
     facility''.
       (ff) Section 6d(1) of such Act (7 U.S.C.13a-2(1)) is 
     amended by striking ``derivatives transaction execution 
     facility,''.

     SEC.411. ELIMINATION OF OBSOLETE REFERENCES TO EXEMPT BOARDS 
                   OF TRADE.

       (a) Section 1a(19)(A)(x) of the Commodity Exchange Act 
     (7U.S.C. 1a(18)(A)(x)), as so redesignated by section 
     304(b)(1) of this Act, is amended by striking ``or an exempt 
     board oftrade''.
       (b) Section 12(e)(1)(B)(i) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 
     16(e)(1)(B)(i)) is amended by striking ``or exempt board 
     oftrade''.

     SEC. 412. ELIMINATION OF REPORT DUE IN 1986.

       Section 26 of the Futures TradingAct of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 16a) 
     is amended by striking subsection

[[Page H421]]

     (b) and redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (b).

     SEC. 413. COMPLIANCE REPORT FLEXIBILITY.

       Section 4s(k)(3)(B) of the Commodity ExchangeAct (7 U.S.C. 
     6s(k)(3)(B)) is amended to read as follows:
       ``(B) Requirements.--A compliance report under 
     subparagraph(A) shall--
       ``(i) include a certification that, under penalty of law, 
     the compliance report is materially accurate andcomplete; and
       ``(ii) be furnished at such time as the Commission 
     determines by rule, regulation, or order, to 
     beappropriate.''.

     SEC. 414. MISCELLANEOUS CORRECTIONS.

       (a) Section 1a(13)(A)(i)(II) of theCommodity Exchange Act 
     (7 U.S.C. 1a(12)(A)(i)(II)), as so redesignated by section 
     304(b)(1) of this Act, is amended by adding atthe end a 
     semicolon.
       (b) Section 2(a)(1)(C)(ii)(III) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 
     2(a)(1)(C)(ii)(III)) is amended by moving theprovision 2 ems 
     to the right.
       (c) Section 2(a)(1)(C)(iii) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 
     2(a)(1)(C)(iii)) is amended by moving theprovision 2 ems to 
     the right.
       (d) Section 2(a)(1)(C)(iv) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 
     2(a)(1)(C)(iv)) is amended by striking``under or'' and 
     inserting ``under''.
       (e) Section 2(a)(1)(C)(v) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 
     2(a)(1)(C)(v)) is amended by movingthe provision 2 ems to the 
     right.
       (f) Section 2(a)(1)(C)(v)(VI) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 
     2(a)(1)(C)(v)(VI)) is amended bystriking ``III'' and 
     inserting ``(III)''.
       (g) Section 2(c)(1) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 2(c)(1)) is 
     amended by striking thesecond comma.
       (h) Section 4(c)(3)(H) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 6(c)(3)(H)) is 
     amended by striking ``state'' and inserting``State''.
       (i) Section 4c(c) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 6c(c)) is amended 
     to read as follows:
       ``(c) The Commission shallissue regulations to continue to 
     permit the trading of options on contract markets under such 
     terms and conditions that theCommission from time to time may 
     prescribe.''.
       (j) Section 4d(b) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 6d(b)) is amended 
     by striking``paragraph (2) of this section'' and inserting 
     ``subsection (a)(2)''.
       (k) Section 4f(c)(3)(A) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 6f(c)(3)(A)) 
     is amended by striking the first comma.
       (l) Section 4f(c)(4)(A) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 6f(c)(4)(A)) 
     is amended bystriking ``in developing'' and inserting ``In 
     developing''.
       (m) Section 4f(c)(4)(B) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 6f(c)(4)(B)) 
     isamended by striking ``1817(a)'' and inserting ``1817(a))''.
       (n) Section 5 of such Act (7 U.S.C. 7) is amended 
     byredesignating subsections (c) through (e) as subsections 
     (b) through (d), respectively.
       (o) Section 5b of such Act (7 U.S.C.7a-1) is amended by 
     redesignating subsection (k) as subsection (j).
       (p) Section 5f(b)(1) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 7b-1(b)(1)) is 
     amended by striking ``section 5f'' and inserting ``this 
     section''.
       (q) Section 6(a) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 8(a)) isamended by 
     striking ``the the'' and inserting ``the''.
       (r) Section 8a of such Act (7 U.S.C. 12a) is amended in 
     each ofparagraphs (2)(E) and (3)(B) by striking ``Investors'' 
     and inserting ``Investor''.
       (s) Section 9(a)(2) of such Act (7 U.S.C.13(a)(2)) is 
     amended by striking ``subsection 4c'' and inserting ``section 
     4c''.
       (t) Section 12(b)(4) of such Act (7 U.S.C.16(b)(4)) is 
     amended by moving the provision 2 ems to the left.
       (u) Section 14(a)(2) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 18(a)(2)) 
     isamended by moving the provision 2 ems to the left.
       (v) Section 17(b)(9)(D) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 21(b)(9)(D)) 
     is amended bystriking the semicolon and inserting a period.
       (w) Section 17(b)(10)(C)(ii) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 
     21(b)(10)(C)(ii)) isamended by striking ``and'' at the end.
       (x) Section 17(b)(11) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 21(b)(11)) is 
     amended by striking theperiod and inserting a semicolon.
       (y) Section 17(b)(12) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 21(b)(12)) is 
     amended--
       (1) by striking``(A)''; and
       (2) by striking the period and inserting ``; and''.
       (z) Section 17(b)(13) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 21(b)(13))is 
     amended by striking ``A'' and inserting ``a''.
       (aa) Section 17 of such Act (7 U.S.C. 21), as amended by 
     sections 101through 103 of this Act, is amended by 
     redesignating subsection (q), as added by section 233(5) of 
     Public Law 97-444, andsubsections (s) through (w) as 
     subsections (r) through (x), respectively.
       (bb) Section 22(b)(3) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 25(b)(3)) is 
     amended by striking ``of registered'' and inserting ``of a 
     registered''.
       (cc) Section 22(b)(4) of such Act (7 U.S.C.25(b)(4)) is 
     amended by inserting a comma after ``entity''.

  The CHAIR. No amendment to that amendment in the nature of a 
substitute shall be in order except those printed in part B ofHouse 
Report 115-3. Each such amendment may be offered only in the order 
printed in the report, by a Member designated in thereport, shall be 
considered read, shall be debatable for the time specified in the 
report, equally divided and controlled by theproponent and an opponent, 
shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand 
for division of the question.


                Amendment No. 1 Offered by Mr. Aderholt

  The CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 1 printed in 
part B of House Report 115-3.
  Mr. ADERHOLT. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Add at the end of title II the following:

     SEC. 213. ELIMINATION OFCERTAIN LEASING AUTHORITY OF THE 
                   COMMISSION.

       Section 12(b)(3) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 
     16(b)(3)) isamended--
       (1) by striking ``including, but not limited to,'' and 
     inserting ``excluding''; and
       (2) by adding at the endthe following new sentence: ``In 
     the case of an existing lease contract entered into under 
     this paragraph, the Commission maynot extend the lease term, 
     but may agree to any other contract modification that does 
     not result in any additional cost to theFederal 
     Government.''.

  The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 40, the gentleman from 
Alabama (Mr. Aderholt) and a Member opposed each willcontrol 5 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Alabama.
  Mr. ADERHOLT. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Chairman, I present to you an amendment, as the chairman of the 
Appropriations Subcommittee for Agriculture, thatprovides funding 
oversight for the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, known as the 
CFTC.
  This amendment that is before us this afternoon is a simple, yet a 
very necessary solution to issues identified at the CFTCregarding its 
leasing practices by its own inspector general and the Government 
Accountability Office.
  This amendment, Mr. Chairman, would allow the CFTC to manage its 
leases through a third party, such as the General 
ServicesAdministration.
  Up until now, the CFTC has demonstrated they have not responsibly 
managed their own leases, and such missteps have created anumber of 
problems for the agency itself. These include poor management and 
oversight of the agency's leasing practices,resulting in millions of 
dollars in excess space and leasing costs.
  The GAO legal division has identified instances of the CFTC violating 
the appropriations law with regard to its leasingpayments and 
contracts.
  GAO is further reviewing four additional legal issues that are 
related to the CFTC's leasing contracts, and we expect theissuance of 
opinions in the near future that will justify the need for this very 
amendment that we are talking about thisafternoon.
  Let me add that at the CFTC, they are experts at their oversight of 
the commodity and the futures and the swap markets.However, the CFTC is 
not expert in leasing practices, and they should be relieved from the 
burden of doing this as we moveforward.
  I would ask my colleagues to support this amendment at the desk.
  I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. PETERSON. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to this amendment.
  The CHAIR. The gentleman from Minnesota is recognized for 5 minutes.
  Mr. PETERSON. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to this amendment.
  According to the CFTC, there is a drafting error in this amendment. I 
don't know exactly what it is, but they claim thatthere is a drafting 
error.
  They also claim that it prohibits the CFTC from entering into leases 
going forward. They have expressed concern that thisprohibition will 
affect their ability to enter into contracts with GSA in emergency 
situations and in order to sublease unusedspace.
  This is one of the problems that I have with this bill in skipping 
the process of consideration in the Committee onAgriculture. If we 
would have done that, we would have had a chance to go over this and 
figure out exactly what is going on andwho is right and who is wrong 
and what the situation is.
  So, according to them, there are problems. We haven't gone through 
regular order, so I reluctantly oppose the amendment.
  I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. ADERHOLT. Mr. Chairman, this amendment has been vetted by the 
House Legislative Counsel and the staff at the CFTC.
  The CHAIR. The gentleman from Alabama has yielded back. Does the 
gentleman from Alabama seek unanimous consent to reclaimthe balance of 
the time?

[[Page H422]]

  

  Mr. ADERHOLT. Mr. Chairman, I ask unanimous consent to reclaim my 
time.
  The CHAIR. Is there objection to the request of the gentleman from 
Alabama?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. ADERHOLT. The amendment has been vetted by the House Legislative 
Counsel and the staff at the CFTC. I understand and Ican appreciate any 
concerns that the ranking member would have.
  Let me say, as we move forward, we will take any of this into account 
as we move forward on this process, any technicalchanges that are 
necessary before this bill becomes law, and we will be happy to work 
with the ranking member as we move forwardwith this amendment.

                              {time}  1330

  Mr. PETERSON. Will the gentleman yield?
  Mr. ADERHOLT. I yield to the gentleman from Minnesota.
  Mr. PETERSON. Again, we are being told by the CFTC that this is not 
the case.
  So, again, I don't know who is right or wrong, and I appreciate your 
offer to work with us to get to the bottom of this.Again, this is the 
problem that you have when you don't go through regular order.
  Mr. ADERHOLT. Reclaiming my time, I would just add that, for this 
amendment, we will work with any concerns that they mayhave and try to 
fix anything that may be, but this is something that needs to be 
addressed, as there are real problems at theCFTC regarding the leasing 
issue.
  I would ask my colleagues to support this amendment.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman 
from Alabama (Mr. Aderholt).
  The amendment was agreed to.


         Amendment No. 2 Offered by Mr. Austin Scott of Georgia

  The CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 2 printed in 
part B of House Report 115-3.
  Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the 
desk.
  The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       At the end of title II, add the following:

     SEC. 213.REFORM OF THE CUSTOMER PROTECTION FUND.

       Section 23(g) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 
     26(g)) is amended--
       (1) inparagraph (2)--
       (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking 
     ``or fiscal year limitation'';
       (B) insubparagraph (A), by striking ``; and'' and inserting 
     ``, without fiscal year limitation;''; and
       (C) in subparagraph (B), bystriking ``thereunder.'' and 
     inserting ``, the total amount of which shall not exceed 
     $5,000,000 per fiscal year.'';
       (2) inparagraph (3)(A), by striking ``unless the balance of 
     the Fund at the time the monetary judgment is collected 
     exceeds$100,000,000'' and inserting ``, but only to the 
     extent that the resulting balance of the Fund does not exceed 
     $50,000,000'';and
       (3) by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph (6) and 
     inserting after paragraph (4) the following:
       ``(5)Reversion to treasury.--Notwithstanding the preceding 
     provisions of this subsection, to the extent the balance of 
     the Fundexceeds $50,000,000, the excess amount shall be 
     deposited in the Treasury of the United States as 
     miscellaneousreceipts.''.

  The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 40, the gentleman from 
Georgia (Mr. Austin Scott) and a Member opposed eachwill control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Georgia.
  AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.
  Mr. Chairman, I rise to offer the Scott amendment to H.R. 238, the 
Commodity End-User Relief Act.
  This commonsense amendment brings much needed reforms and guidance 
for the consumer protection fund at the Commodity FuturesTrading 
Commission. The drafters of Dodd-Frank envisioned the consumer 
protection fund to be capped at $100 million. However,through agency 
interpretations, this fund currently has a balance of nearly $250 
million.
  While the fund is certainly well-intended and can be used to pay 
whistleblower awards and fund customer educationinitiatives, there is 
no limit on the amount of the fund that can be spent on these customer 
education initiatives.
  There is also a very broad definition of what constitutes a customer 
education initiative. For instance, the vast majorityof the fund is 
currently being spent on programs like advertising, opening offices in 
cities with little need, and paying forCFTC staff travel.
  This amendment would do two things. First, it would place a hard cap, 
one which administrators can't bypass, on the fund of$50 million. This 
would simply make a commonsense decision to return approximately $200 
million to the Treasury and keep thefund from carrying an excessive 
balance in the future. Should whistleblower payouts exceed $50 million, 
the Treasury would placeadditional money into the fund.
  The amendment's second reform would limit spending on customer 
education initiatives to $5 million per year. This limitwould bring 
discipline to the provision that has been used to spend millions in 
advertising and social media outreach.
  The Congressional Budget Office informally indicates that these 
changes would save more than $40 million and would preservethe customer 
protection fund while making commonsense reforms to protect taxpayer 
resources.
  I encourage adoption of my amendment.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. PETERSON. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to the amendment.
  The CHAIR. The gentleman from Minnesota is recognized for 5 minutes.
  Mr. PETERSON. Mr. Chair, as was indicated, this places a $5 million 
limit on expenditures.
  Again, I don't know if it is a drafting error or a difference of 
opinion, but, according to the CFTC, they claim that thisamendment does 
things that were not explained and were not, in their opinion, made 
clear in the amendment. I don't know if theyare calling it an error, or 
whatever it is, but there is a provision in there that says that this 
fund, once it gets above $100million, can't go above $50 million.
  So what this does is it basically limits the amount, once they get an 
amount to go back into the fund to replenish it.Again, I am not exactly 
sure who is right or who is wrong here, but it is another example of, I 
think, something that could havebeen avoided if this would have come 
through the Agriculture Committee in regular order.
  The CFTC's education initiatives to help consumers protect themselves 
have been successful since this initiative began. Themain expense is 
the Web site BrokerCheck. The whistleblower awards have increased 
recently and have been shown to be aneffective method of enforcing the 
Commodity Exchange Act.
  So, again, I would ask opposition to the amendment and again make the 
point that, had we gone through the committee process,we could have 
resolved this and probably been on the same page.
  Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The CHAIR. The gentleman from Minnesota has yielded back.
  The gentleman from Georgia yielded back his time. Does the gentleman 
wish to request unanimous consent to reclaim thebalance of his time?
  Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Yes, Mr. Chair.
  The CHAIR. Without objection, so ordered.
  There was no objection.
  Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I would point out that 
there is over $200 million in the account. If somebodywere going to 
make $200 million subject to the appropriations process, I imagine any 
bureaucrat would object if that was goingto happen to their agency.
  But the fact of the matter is, that is one of the ways that we as 
Members of Congress are able to make sure that taxpayerfunds are spent 
where we expect them to be spent. This does not in any way, shape, or 
form hinder the ability to pay out towhistleblowers. I firmly believe 
we should be paying whistleblowers.
  If the fund needs additional resources, we have the ability to 
appropriate it, but it would prevent the agency frommaintaining 
balances well in excess of what was anticipated in the Dodd-Frank 
legislation.

[[Page H423]]

  Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman 
from Georgia (Mr. Austin Scott).
  The amendment was agreed to.


                 Amendment No. 3 Offered by Mr. Conaway

  The CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 3 printed in 
part B of House Report 115-3.
  Mr. CONAWAY. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 32, after line 3, insert the following:
       (L) Section 3a(68)(A)(i) of the Securities ExchangeAct of 
     1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(68)(A)(i)) is amended by striking 
     ``(47)(B)(x)'' and inserting ``(48)(B)(x)''.
       (M) Section3C(g)(3)(A)(v) of the Securities Exchange Act of 
     1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c-3(g)(3)(A)(v)) is amended by striking 
     ``1a(10)'' andinserting ``1a(11)''.
       (N) Section 6(g)(5)(B)(i) of the Securities Exchange Act of 
     1934 (15 U.S.C. 78f(g)(5)(B)(i)) isamended--
       (i) in sublcause (I), by striking ``1a(18)(B)(ii)'' and 
     inserting ``1a(19)(B)(ii)''; and
       (ii) in subclause(II), by striking ``1a(18)'' and inserting 
     ``1a(19)''.
       (O) Section 15F(h)(5)(A)(i) of the Securities Exchange Act 
     of 1934(15 U.S.C. 78o-10(h)(5)(A)(i)) is amended by striking 
     ``1a(18)'' and inserting ``1a(19)''.
       Page 50, line 21, strike``1a(10)(C)'' and insert 
     ``1a(11)(C)''.

  The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 40, the gentleman from Texas 
(Mr. Conaway) and a Member opposed each willcontrol 5 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Texas.
  Mr. CONAWAY. Mr. Chairman, this is a pretty straightforward 
amendment. It proposes certain technical corrections within thebills. 
This would have normally been handled by the Rules Committee without 
need for a particular amendment, but because, as Isaid yesterday, the 
language of H.R. 238 is the exact language out of last year's June 15 
bill, except for things that wedropped and limiting the appropriations 
to $250 million.
  So, in the spirit of total transparency, I bring this amendment 
forward so the full body can work its will on this technicalcorrection 
that would have normally been fixed by the Rules Committee.
  Mr. PETERSON. Will the gentleman yield?
  Mr. CONAWAY. I yield to the gentleman from Minnesota.
  Mr. PETERSON. Mr. Chair, I support the amendment.
  Mr. CONAWAY. Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman 
from Texas (Mr. Conaway).
  The amendment was agreed to.


                 Amendment No. 4 Offered by Mr. Conaway

  The CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 4 printed in 
part B of House Report 115-3.
  Mr. CONAWAY. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 40, line 4, strike ``paragraphs (2) and (5) of 
     subsection (a)'' and insert ``paragraph (1)''.
       Addat the end of title III the following:

     SEC. 318. REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO POSITIONLIMITS.

       (a) In General.--Section 4a(a) of the Commodity Exchange 
     Act (7 U.S.C. 6a(a)) is amended--
       (1) by strikingparagraphs (2), (3), (5), and (6); and
       (2) by redesignating paragraphs (4) and (7) as paragraphs 
     (2) and (3),respectively.
       (b) Bona Fide Hedging Transaction Definition.--Section 
     4a(c)(2)(A)(i) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 6a(c)(2)(A)(i)) is 
     amended by inserting ``normally'' before ``represents''.
       (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by thissection 
     shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this 
     section.

  The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 40, the gentleman from Texas 
(Mr. Conaway) and a Member opposed each willcontrol 5 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Texas.
  Mr. CONAWAY. Mr. Chairman, the amendment I offer today will clarify 
amendments made to the Commodity Exchange Act by Dodd-Frank and require 
the CFTC to actually determine that position limits will, in fact, help 
reduce excessive speculation beforethey implement those new rules.
  This past fall, my colleagues and I all ran for reelection promising 
to reduce government regulation and eliminate rulesthat needlessly 
burden the economy. As we consider the CFTC's ongoing work, we should 
look no further than the position limitsrulemaking to begin that task.
  Position limits are a tool that have merit and purpose in regulating 
the commodities market. Today, designated contractmarkets core 
principle V requires every U.S. exchange to impose, as is necessary and 
appropriate, position limits or positionaccountability levels on the 
contracts they offer.
  Further, there are several agricultural contracts that have long-
established and well understood federally mandated positionlimits. My 
amendment will not change any of those existing position limits regime.
  Prior to Dodd-Frank, the law was clear: if the Commission wanted to 
impose position limits, it first had to make adetermination that such 
limits would diminish, eliminate, or prevent the burdens of excessive 
speculation. Post-Dodd-Frank, thecourts have ruled that additions to 
the statute have rendered it ambiguous.
  Chairman Massad and I have disagreed for the past 3 years about how 
to read the statute. So today, my amendment fixes theambiguity by 
affirmatively requiring the Commission to determine that position 
limits will serve to reduce the burdens ofexcessive speculation before 
they put them in place.
  It is important that the Commission affirmatively determines the need 
for position limits because limits are an unmistakableburden on market 
participants.
  The current position limits proposal will cost market participants 
substantially in time and money to comply with. Mostimportantly, it 
fundamentally changes the way hedgers can seek relief from the rules.
  Agricultural producers and processors, power companies, and other 
commercial hedgers may have fewer bona fide hedges. Whatis more, they 
might get a hedge exemption, only to get a call from Washington telling 
them their hedge is invalid and they mustliquidate their position.
  The proposal also imposes new recordkeeping and reporting obligations 
on Futures Commission Merchants, exchanges, and marketparticipants. 
Less well understood, but no less important, is the impact that 
position limits in later months might have onmarket liquidity.
  Position limits do not have anything to do with the long-term price 
of commodities. The price of oil, no matter how high itclimbs or how 
low it falls, is driven by supply and demand.
  Congress itself recognized this when it characterized the burdens of 
excessive speculation as the sudden or unreasonablefluctuations or 
unwarranted changes in the price of a commodity. There is nothing 
sudden about a year's-long run-up or a year's-long decline in commodity 
prices.
  That said, I agree there is a role for position limits to play in the 
management of our commodity markets, especially inmanaging the 
convergence of prices at the expiration of a contract. But limits are a 
regulatory tool to promote orderly markets,not a silver bullet to lower 
commodity prices for consumers.
  As a tool, they need to be calibrated to the unique characteristics 
and historical patterns of each commodity. We cannotimpose them in 
blind faith that more regulation automatically improves markets.
  My amendment is agnostic about the merits of position limits, but it 
is clear about the need for the government to justifyits rules that 
restrict economic activity.
  As this Congress sets about reducing regulatory burdens, it is 
important that we start by requiring the CFTC to make adetermination 
about the need for further regulations before they act.
  Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. PETERSON. Mr. Chair, I claim the time in opposition to the 
amendment.
  The CHAIR. The gentleman from Minnesota is recognized for 5 minutes.
  Mr. PETERSON. Mr. Chairman, I yield my time to the gentleman from 
Connecticut (Mr. Courtney), who was one of theoriginal folks who 
brought this forward and one of the original authors, I think, of this 
provision. So I am going to let himcarry the day on the opposition to 
this amendment.

[[Page H424]]

  The CHAIR. The gentleman from Connecticut will control the time in 
opposition.
  Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Chairman, I thank Mr. Peterson and Mr. Conaway, 
with whom I did serve on the AgricultureCommittee with for a number of 
years, and I recall well some of the discussion and debate as Chairman 
Gensler appeared beforethe committee on article 7 of the Dodd-Frank 
Act.
  Although, I didn't author that position, former-Senator Dodd is a 
constituent of mine. So I guess that is close enough tothe work that 
was done creating this section.
  Again, let's be very clear about what this amendment does. It is not 
about clarifying anything. It is about stripping fromthe law article 7 
of Dodd-Frank, which was a congressional mandate to establish position 
limits for speculative trading.
  Again, this was not done in a vacuum. It was done because there has 
been an explosion of speculative trading that is takingplace in 
commodities markets. We had testimony in the Congress back in 2010 that 
it had grown from 22 percent to 67 percentspeculation on Wall Street. 
Goldman Sachs--when, again, we were dealing with close to $4 a gallon 
for gas--had a report which saidthat 27 percent of that price was due 
to speculation. So, Congress appropriately instructed CFTC to come back 
with a regulatoryplan to limit speculative positions in a reasonable 
way.
  Again, no one quarrels with the fact that end users, whether it is 
farms, ranchers, airlines, or businesses of all sorts,should be able to 
exercise options in market swaps.

                              {time}  1345

  In those instances, these are firms and businesses which actually 
take physical possession and control of the commodity.Again, what 
Goldman Sachs and other analysts had demonstrated is that what has been 
a burgeoning trend is that firms werebeginning to take dominant 
position in markets that, again, were not even close or remotely 
involved in the actual production,processing, or use of the commodities 
that were in question.
  So again, CFTC has begun an arduous, painful process of trying to 
craft a rule. In fact, just a few weeks ago, on December5, the CFTC 
voted unanimously to again move that process along and come up with a 
draft of a balanced, reasonable rule, so it isnot a dead-end situation.
  As has been reported, what they basically were looking at was a 
fundamental or a basic limit of roughly about 25 percent ofa commodity 
could not be controlled by one firm. The end users that I spoke to, as 
this rule has been making its way, actuallythink that the CFTC is being 
too generous in terms of allowing an individual firm to control up to 
25 percent of a market. Ithink a lot of Americans would understand that 
that kind of position really would provide for an opportunity to 
manipulatemarket prices.
  In fact, there are some end users who think the rule should be very 
simple, that you have to take actual physical possessionof the 
commodity in order to be able to hedge a position or engage in a future 
option. Again, the CFTC did not go to thatradical extreme. Again, they 
tried to listen to the thousands of comments--Chairman Gensler, 
Chairman Massad--to try to fashion arule that allowed a healthy market 
but did not allow situations which were occurring during high gas and 
oil prices.
  In Connecticut, we had home heating oil suppliers who were describing 
situations where the price of the heating oil by thetime the truck left 
the garage and came back was going up 10, 15 cents just during that 
short period of time for no reason atall. There wasn't like a refinery 
explosion or some incident that was happening overseas. It was, again, 
the movement on WallStreet of people who were profiting not from use of 
the commodity but, in fact, just from the movement on the price. That 
isreally what CFTC has been hard at work doing.
  This amendment will basically shut that down. It is not a 
clarification. It basically takes away what was Congress'instruction to 
CFTC.
  Again, I respectfully oppose this amendment. I think we should allow 
the Commission, which is going to have a RepublicanChairman in a few 
weeks, to continue to work on this issue and to provide protection for 
the true end users, the people whoactually use the commodities, as well 
as consumers. Whether it is those who get their home heating oil tank 
full, their gas tankfull, whether it is farmers and ranchers who are 
dealing with things like feed costs, we should have a healthy system of 
makingsure that individuals or firms cannot have a dominant position in 
terms of controlling commodities.
  This is not an arcane, esoteric issue for Americans. This affects 
bread-and-butter issues in terms of how much they pay foressential 
goods and commodities for them and their families. I would strongly 
urge the Members to not accept this amendment. Iurge a ``no'' vote.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. CONAWAY. Mr. Chairman, how much time do I have remaining?
  The CHAIR. The gentleman from Texas has 1\1/2\ minutes remaining.
  Mr. CONAWAY. Mr. Chairman, the CFTC prepared a draft report this past 
year. Quoting from page 142 of that draft, it says theMasters 
Hypothesis, which my colleague--who I do have great respect for--said 
the mere presence of passives distorts themarketplace, that is what 
Masters Hypothesis said. The CFTC found there are no reputable economic 
studies which fully endorsethis view of how the commodity futures 
markets work.
  I would like to close with this comment from another study by the 
chief economist: ``Comment letters on either sidedeclaring that the 
matter is settled in their favor among respectable economists is simply 
incorrect. The best economists onboth sides of the debate concede that 
there is legitimate debate afoot. This analysis paper documents that 
the academic debateamongst economists about the magnitude, prevalence, 
and pervasiveness of the risk of outsized market positions has 
reputable andlegitimate standard-bearers for opposing positions.''
  I agree with that in full. All we are asking the CFTC to do, Mr. 
Chairman, is to do the work to prove that the specificposition list 
they want to implement, should they believe one is needed, that they 
would have to go through regular order, theirregular order, to make 
that happen. I encourage a ``yes'' vote on the amendment.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman 
from Texas (Mr. Conaway).
  The question was taken; and the Chair announced that the ayes 
appeared to have it.
  Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Chairman, I demand a recorded vote.
  The CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further proceedings on 
the amendment offered by the gentleman from Texas willbe postponed.


                  Amendment No. 5 Offered by Mr. Duffy

  The CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 5 printed in 
part B of House Report 115-3.
  Mr. DUFFY. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Add at the end of title III the following:

     SEC. 318.PROCEDURE FOR OBTAINING CERTAIN INTELLECTUAL 
                   PROPERTY.

       The Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.) is amended 
     byinserting after section 4t the following:

     ``SEC. 4U. PROCEDURE FOR OBTAINING CERTAININTELLECTUAL 
                   PROPERTY.

       ``The Commission is not authorized to compel persons to 
     produce or furnish algorithmic trading sourcecode or similar 
     intellectual property to the Commission, unless the 
     Commission first issues a subpoena.''.

  The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 40, the gentleman from 
Wisconsin (Mr. Duffy) and a Member opposed each willcontrol 5 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Wisconsin.
  Mr. DUFFY. Mr. Chairman, I appreciate the support of the gentleman 
from Texas and his insight in this amendment. I was aprosecutor in a 
former life, and we care a lot about due process, making sure that the 
government can't take something from aprivate individual just because 
they want to take it.
  As an American, I know that protecting intellectual property is a 
cornerstone of our free enterprise system. That is why Iam concerned 
about the CFTC's rule on automated trading,

[[Page H425]]

which takes the unprecedented step of requiring a wide array ofmarket 
participants engaged in algorithmic trading to maintain a source code 
repository and make it available for inspection bythe CFTC or the 
Department of Justice without a subpoena.
  Now, this is highly sensitive source code. This is intellectual 
property that helps the functionality of our marketplace,and to think 
that this kind of sensitive data can be taken by the Federal Government 
without a subpoena should shock ourconscience. There are times when the 
government should get this information; but if they should have it, 
they should be able touse a subpoena and lay out the cause and the case 
for why they need to have it.
  That is not just my only concern. But the CFTC is potentially going 
to be taking this source code from all different marketplayers and 
holding it in a warehouse or a repository, and so we have a concern for 
hacking. It has been a big conversation asof late. But instead of a 
foreign entity hacking in to individual companies, they just have to 
hack the CFTC and they get allthe source code. Just think of the 
malicious things that can happen if you have the source code of market 
players, how you candisrupt it, how you can take it down. It is 
absolutely frightening.
  So I think we should have great pause, take a little time to reflect 
on our Constitution, and continue to respect andsupport due process, 
which means, if the government wants this information, they should have 
a subpoena, lay out their case, andthat is the avenue by which they get 
it, not just because they want it.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. PETERSON. Mr. Chairman, I claim the time in opposition to the 
amendment.
  The CHAIR. The gentleman from Minnesota is recognized for 5 minutes
  Mr. PETERSON. Mr. Chairman, this amendment addresses a problem that 
the CFTC is already well on its way to resolving in itsproposed rule on 
automated trading. It requires that the Commission must vote to issue a 
subpoena to collect source code fromhigh-frequency trading firms before 
the Commission can examine it.
  I support the protections for the source code as intellectual 
property. I know Commissioner--soon to be Chairman, Ithink--Giancarlo 
has made this a priority, but this amendment I think is poorly drafted. 
Again, I don't want to harp on this toomuch, but it is something that 
could have been resolved had we had a committee process to do this 
bill.
  One of the questions I have: I don't quite understand why this 
language is in the bill regarding similar intellectualproperty. The 
people at the CFTC, they don't know what this means, they don't know 
why you put that language in there, and theythink it is going to cause 
a lot of problems. So we are trying to get at the source code. I have a 
problem with that. But why isthis language in there?
  Would the gentleman be willing to explain to me why that is in there 
and what it means?
  Mr. DUFFY. Will the gentleman yield?
  Mr. PETERSON. I yield to the gentleman from Wisconsin.
  Mr. DUFFY. I appreciate the gentleman for yielding.
  Again, as an American, when the government wants to take very secure 
intellectual property and data, we do have this beliefthat they should 
be able to get a subpoena to access it. Again, we don't have a 
disagreement that the CFTC, in circumstances, wewant them to get access 
to this information.
  Mr. PETERSON. Right.
  Mr. DUFFY. But highly sensitive intellectual property, we think, 
similar data, should require a subpoena.
  Mr. PETERSON. What is that intellectual property that the CFTC might 
go after? They don't know what it is. I don't know whatit is. Is there 
some reason?
  The source code is what the issue is, right?
  Mr. DUFFY. If the gentleman would yield, is the gentleman saying that 
if the government just wants highly sensitive andintellectual property 
they should be able to go in and just ask for it and require it to be 
delivered?
  Mr. PETERSON. This isn't the government. It is the CFTC. It is a very 
specific part of the government.
  Mr. DUFFY. But it is the government.
  Mr. PETERSON. Well, right. I don't know what it means. They think it 
is problematic, and I think it is another example ofwhere we would have 
been better off with regular order.
  I oppose the amendment.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. DUFFY. Mr. Chairman, I just want to clarify that in the proposed 
rule there is no requirement for a subpoena. Thatdoesn't exist. Now, 
they might have told you that they want to reform that rule, but that 
is not the way the proposed rulestands today. Again, if our government 
wants information from the private sector, we all believe they should 
have a subpoena forit, number one.
  Again, on the concern of hacking, I wrote the Chair of the CFTC and 
asked for additional information about how they canpreserve and protect 
this very sensitive information, and, in essence, they said: We can 
protect it because we say we canprotect it. That doesn't give me great 
confidence.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman 
from Wisconsin (Mr. Duffy).
  The amendment was agreed to.


                 Amendment No. 6 Offered by Mr. LaMalfa

  The CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 6 printed in 
part B of House Report 115-3.
  Mr. LaMALFA. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       At the end of title III, insert the following:

     SEC.___. DETERMINATION OF PREDOMINANT ENGAGEMENT.

       Section 2(h)(7)(C) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 
     2(h)(7)(C)), as amended by section 314 of this Act, is 
     amended by adding at the end the following:
       ``(v) In determining whether aperson is predominantly 
     engaged in a business or activity for purposes of clause 
     (i)(VIII), there shall be excluded revenues andassets that 
     are, or result from, any transaction that is entered into 
     solely for purposes of hedging or mitigating commercialrisk 
     (as defined by the Commission for purposes of subparagraph 
     (A)(ii)).''.

  The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 40, the gentleman from 
California (Mr. LaMalfa) and a Member opposed each willcontrol 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California.
  Mr. LaMALFA. Mr. Chairman, my amendment is a simple, straightforward 
one, bringing clarity to the law and relief,again, to the end users, 
such as farmers, ranchers, and manufacturers that use swaps to hedge 
commercial risks associated withtheir business, including volatile 
markets and price fluctuations on a day-to-day basis. This critical 
financial tool allowsthem to do their jobs and provide products in an 
affordable and accessible manner, keeping consumer costs low.
  Discussing Dodd-Frank, Congress always intended that these end users 
should not have to clear the swaps entered to hedgethese commercial 
risks and provide the end-user exemption to that end.
  The Commodity Exchange Act defines as a financial entity a person 
predominantly engaged in certain financial activities. TheFed's 
rulemaking when defining financial activities repeatedly states the 
rule is for the purpose of title I; therefore,bringing it in to title 
VII was something they did not have in mind when issuing their 
definitions of predominantly engaged forfinancial entities. Therefore, 
financial entities cannot rely on this end-user exception.
  However, because of a catchall in the definition of financial 
entities, end users who engage in successful hedging programscould be 
regarded as financial entities, thereby creating barriers and 
unnecessary restrictions to their business operations.This completely 
turns the concept of being an end user in title VII on its head.
  My amendment today ensures end users will not lose their ability to 
rely on the end-user exception, which is a clearingrequirement due 
simply to the position performance of a transaction entered into solely 
to mitigate commercial risk.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.

[[Page H426]]

  

  Mr. PETERSON. Mr. Chairman, I claim the time in opposition.
  The Acting CHAIR (Mr. McClintock). The gentleman from Minnesota is 
recognized for 5 minutes.
  Mr. PETERSON. Mr. Chair, I am not exactly sure why this is needed, 
but I don't have any problem with the amendment.
  I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from California (Mr. LaMalfa).
  The amendment was agreed to.

                              {time}  1400


                  Amendment No. 7 Offered by Mr. Lucas

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 7 
printed in part B of House Report 115-3.
  Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       At the end of title III, insert the following:

     SEC.___. TREATMENT OF TRANSACTIONS BETWEEN AFFILIATES.

       Section 1a(48) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 
     1a(47)),as so redesignated by section 304(b)(1) of this Act, 
     is amended by adding at the end the following:
       ``(G) Treatment oftransactions between affiliates.--
       ``(i) Exemption from swap rules.--An agreement, contract, 
     or transaction describedin subparagraphs (A) through (F) 
     shall not be regulated as a swap under this Act if all of the 
     following apply with respect tothe agreement, contract, or 
     transaction:

       ``(I) Affiliation.--1 counterparty, directly or indirectly, 
     holds a majorityownership interest in the other counterparty, 
     or a third party, directly or indirectly, holds a majority 
     ownership interest inboth counterparties.
       ``(II) Financial statements.--The affiliated counterparty 
     that holds the majority interest in theother counterparty or 
     the third party that, directly or indirectly, holds the 
     majority interests in both affiliatedcounterparties, reports 
     its financial statements on a consolidated basis under 
     generally accepted accounting principles orInternational 
     Financial Reporting Standards, or other similar standards, 
     and the financial statements include the financialresults of 
     the majority-owned affiliated counterparty or counterparties.

       ``(ii) Reporting requirement.--If at least 1counterparty to 
     an agreement, contract, or transaction that meets the 
     requirements of clause (i) is a swap dealer or major 
     swapparticipant, that counterparty shall report the 
     agreement, contract, or transaction pursuant to section 4r, 
     within such timeperiod as the Commission may by rule or 
     regulation prescribe--

       ``(I) to a swap data repository; or
       ``(II) if there is noswap data repository that would accept 
     the agreement, contract or transaction, to the Commission .

       ``(iii) Riskmanagement requirement.--If at least 1 
     counterparty to an agreement, contract, or transaction that 
     meets the requirements ofclause (i) is a swap dealer or major 
     swap participant, the agreement, contract, or transaction 
     shall be subject to a centralizedrisk management program 
     pursuant to section 4s(j) that is reasonably designed to 
     monitor and to manage the risks associated withthe agreement, 
     contract, or transaction.
       ``(iv) Variation margin requirement.--Affiliated 
     counterparties to anagreement, contract, or transaction that 
     meets the requirements of clause (i) shall exchange variation 
     margin to the extentprescribed under any rule promulgated by 
     the Commission or any prudential regulator pursuant to 
     section 4s(e).
       ``(v)Anti-evasion requirement.--An agreement, contract, or 
     transaction that meets the requirements of clause (i) shall 
     not bestructured to evade the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform 
     and Consumer Protection Act in violation of any rule 
     promulgated by theCommission pursuant to section 721(c) of 
     such Act.''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 40, the gentleman from 
Oklahoma (Mr. Lucas) and a Member opposed eachwill control 5 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Oklahoma.
  Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support of the Lucas amendment to H.R. 
238. This amendment works to provide much-needed reliefand certainty 
for American companies by clarifying how the internal risk reducing 
transactions amongst the businesses' ownaffiliates are regulated. Many 
businesses of all types and sizes in our country use derivatives to 
manage the risks they facewithin their daily operations. Interaffiliate 
swaps are a commonly used and effective internal risk management tool 
thesebusinesses rely upon.
  Unfortunately, derivatives reforms implemented under Dodd-Frank fail 
to distinguish the difference between interaffiliatetransactions and 
transactions executed between unaffiliated third parties. Such internal 
transactions ensure firms to centralizetheir risk management activities 
between affiliate counterparties and do not create additional 
counterparty exposure outside ofa corporate group. This amendment, 
therefore, clarifies that interaffiliate swaps are not subject to the 
same regulatoryrequirements as external, market-facing swaps between 
third parties.
  In addition, this amendment is consistent with the CFTC's attempts to 
provide similar relief through rule exceptions and no-action letters. 
While such actions by the CFTC have provided relief, they do not 
provide a workable, clear, and predictable setof regulations that 
market participants can effectively operate under.
  This amendment will keep in place appropriate regulatory reforms and 
provide much-needed regulatory and legal certainty forU.S. companies. 
Please join me in supporting this needed reform.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman is recognized for 5 minutes.
  Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such 
time as I may consume.
  Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to my friend Mr. Lucas' amendment. 
This amendment rejects the bipartisan compromisenegotiated over 4 years 
to strike the right balance regarding interaffiliate swaps. Indeed, 
Democrats like Ms. Moore andRepublicans like Mr. Stivers carefully 
negotiated a way to balance the needs of operating companies like 
airlines andrefineries. This amendment, however, would exempt swaps 
between affiliates, including megabanks like Goldman Sachs 
andJ.P.Morgan, from the mandatory margin, clearing, trade execution, 
capital, and every other protection under Title VII of theDodd-Frank 
Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010.
  While we generally agree that swaps between affiliated corporate 
entities do not pose a systemic threat, we are deeplytroubled about 
this desire to undermine all swaps rules and harm our economy.
  During testimony on a similar version of this amendment, the CFTC's 
former chairman, Gary Gensler, stated that such anexemption would 
provide a big loophole around our derivatives rules and that it would 
``blow a hole in Dodd-Frank.''
  Specifically, the amendment exempts affiliate swaps no matter where 
the affiliate resides. So, an affiliate could reside ina foreign 
jurisdiction that lacks any swaps regulation and share its risks with a 
U.S. affiliate, but our regulators would beprohibited from imposing any 
safeguards such as initial margin or capital requirements. Why would we 
pass such a self-inflictedwound?
  With that, Mr. Chairman, I urge all Members to vote ``no'' on this 
amendment.
  I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself the remainder of my time 
simply to note to my colleagues the goal of this amendmentis to allow 
business entities to efficiently manage their risk. If that risk is 
managed internally where it is no threat tothird parties then they 
should have the ability to do it in the most efficient fashion. As I 
noted in my earlier comments, CFTChas provided similar relief through 
rule exceptions and no-action letters. What we are trying to do here is 
clarify thissituation.
  As far as one of the previous chairmen of the CFTC, while a very 
enthusiastic regulator, I would note that I and manyparticipants down 
through the years have disagreed with his interpretations on several 
things. But, with that, I have thegreatest respect for my colleague 
over there. This is a sincere difference of opinion.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield the remainder of my time to the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. Conaway) who is the chairman of thefull committee.
  Mr. CONAWAY. Mr. Chairman, I support the gentleman's amendment.
  I would point out that at the end of his amendment is an antievasion 
requirement which would allow the CFTC to watch for thekinds of things 
that

[[Page H427]]

the gentlewoman from California was worried about in which foreign 
markets might be involved andother things. So there are, structured in 
the Lucas amendment, protections to avoid a crafty, interaffiliate kind 
ofcircumstance that she was concerned about.
  Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Oklahoma (Mr. Lucas).
  The amendment was agreed to.


                Amendment No. 8 Offered by Mrs. Hartzler

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 8 
printed in part B of House Report 115-3.
  Mrs. HARTZLER. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       At the end of the bill, add the following:

     SEC.___. DELAY IN FULL IMPLEMENTATION OF THE FINAL RULE ON 
                   OWNERSHIP AND CONTROL REPORTING.

       The Commodity FuturesTrading Commission may not enforce 
     non-compliance with the final rule titled ``Ownership and 
     Control Reports, Forms 102/2S,40/40S, and 71'' (78 FR 69178; 
     November 18, 2013) until the Commission votes to approve a 
     final rule that has been amendedto--
       (1) provide that the reportable trading volume level shall 
     be at least 300 contracts;
       (2) provide that the reportingentity shall not be required 
     to provide natural person controller data; and
       (3) provide that the reporting entity is notobligated to 
     supply data that violates foreign privacy laws.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 40, the gentlewoman 
from Missouri (Mrs. Hartzler) and a Member opposedeach will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Missouri.
  Mrs. HARTZLER. Mr. Chairman, I rise today to offer an amendment to 
bring certainty to farmers, agricultural cooperatives,and grain 
elevators across Missouri and the country that are having problems 
complying with burdensome reporting requirements atthe CFTC. Dodd-Frank 
never intended to regulate end users like independent grain elevators 
who work on behalf of Missourifarmers to help manage their price risk. 
My amendment works to correct this oversight and provide a stable 
environment for allplayers in the industry.
  My amendment is simple. It would require the Commission to address 
three outstanding concerns to the Ownership and ControlReports rule, 
better known as the OCR rule, before the Commission can begin 
enforcement, which, by the way, the CFTC is notenforcing presently. 
This industry currently is operating under a no-action relief letter, 
meaning the OCR rule is not beingenforced due to the inability of the 
industry to meet the stringent requirements of the CFTC regulations. 
That could change, andthe problem needs to be addressed.
  Specifically, my amendment does three things. First, it increases the 
threshold from 50 to 300 contracts per day percommodity for those 
market participants that need to comply with this rule. This will 
exempt low-volume entities like grainelevators and small agricultural 
cooperatives from the reporting requirements for large trading firms 
and major players in thesemarkets. Even with the new threshold 
established by my amendment, the CFTC will still gather ownership and 
control informationon the major players and midsized traders.
  Second, my amendment removes a small but very burdensome portion of 
the long list of reporting requirements under the finalOCR rule. My 
amendment removes the natural person controller requirements which 
require farmer cooperatives and grain elevatorsto report specifically 
personally identifiable information on individual employees. The CFTC 
has never required such granularinformation for many of my constituent 
businesses, and such requirements are making Futures Commission 
Merchants much lesswilling to work with small and medium-sized entities 
in the countryside. Even with the small changes made by my amendment, 
theCFTC will still be properly equipped to track ownership and account 
control data across the market.
  Finally, this amendment will require the CFTC to ensure that current 
regulations do not conflict with current foreignprivacy laws. Having a 
large, open, liquid market is important to managing risk, and operating 
on an international basis is avaluable aspect of a commodity market. 
The CFTC should be responsible for dealing with other governments on 
privacy concerns. Itis inappropriate to push that burden onto the firms 
and customers that it regulates.
  This amendment is supported by a wide range of industry and farmers 
groups, and I encourage my colleagues to support myamendment to provide 
relief from the regulatory burdens of this rule on small cooperatives, 
grain elevators, and farmers who aremerely hedging their legitimate 
market risk and serving their customers' interests.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. PETERSON. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Minnesota is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. PETERSON. Mr. Chairman, this amendment contains several troubling 
drafting--some people call them--errors or, I guess,questions. It 
prevents the CFTC from enforcing noncompliance with the final rule that 
includes more forms than were targeted.
  When we did our part of the Dodd-Frank bill, one of the things that I 
thought was really not controversial was that we weregoing to try to 
find out, once and for all, who owned all of these swaps; who was on 
what side of positions. This is what causedthe problem in the first 
place with the financial meltdown. When Lehman Brothers went down and 
we allowed them to go broke, itcreated this big panic, AIG didn't know 
if they could cover their swaps or not, and it was going to unravel the 
whole situationbecause these firms that were trading didn't know who 
held what and what was going on. That was the underlying problem. So 
whatwe were trying to do is get some understanding of where everybody 
was in this market. When we were doing the bill, we made itvery clear, 
and I put in the legislation, that end users were not covered. That 
shouldn't have been an issue.
  The problem with this amendment is it looks like it is going to 
include more than just that. So, I guess, again, this is afinal example 
in this bill of a process moving too quickly and a lack of regular 
order.
  Finally, it contains a section on foreign privacy laws that could 
result in the agencies seeing a reduced scope of market intheir 
surveillance activities that may not be the intention. But, again, 
without the chance to consider this provision inregular order, we are 
not sure, and concerns that some people have remain unaddressed. So 
this could have been resolved duringthe process. It hasn't been. In its 
present form, I oppose the amendment.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mrs. HARTZLER. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself the remainder of my time.
  Mr. Chairman, I would remind our colleagues that this rule is right 
now under a no-action relief letter because it isn'tworking, and that 
is what this amendment does is to fix this problem. So I believe this 
amendment is very important. It makes afew commonsense changes to the 
OCR rule that will provide regulatory relief to farmers, agricultural 
cooperatives, and grainelevators while allowing the CFTC to adequately 
regulate the futures industry.
  So, Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to support this amendment.
  I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentlewoman from Missouri (Mrs. Hartzler).
  The amendment was agreed to.
  Mr. CONAWAY. Mr. Chairman, I move that the Committee do now rise.
  The motion was agreed to.
  Accordingly, the Committee rose; and the Speaker pro tempore (Mr. 
Hultgren) having assumed the chair, Mr.McClintock, Acting Chair of the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union, reported that 
that Committee,having had under consideration the bill (H.R. 238) to 
reauthorize the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, to better 
protectfutures customers, to provide end-users with market certainty, 
to make basic reforms to ensure transparency and accountabilityat the 
Commission, to help

[[Page H428]]

farmers, ranchers, and end-users manage risks, to help keep consumer 
costs low, and for otherpurposes, had come to no resolution thereon.

                          ____________________



