

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S297]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                            OBAMACARE REPEAL

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, the Senate just passed the legislative 
tools needed to repeal and replaceObamaCare. This is a critical step 
forward--the first step toward bringing relief from this failed law. 
The resolution now goesto the House. They will take it up soon. The 
next step will then be the legislation to finally repeal ObamaCare and 
move ustoward smarter health policies.
  The repeal legislation will include a stable transition period as we 
work toward patient-centered health care. We plan to take on the 
replace challenge in manageable pieces with step-by-step reforms. We 
can begin tomake important progress within that repeal legislation, and 
we will continue to work with the incoming administration and theHouse 
in developing what comes next.
  There are other steps we can take as well, including important 
administrative stepslike confirming Tom Price as Secretary of Health 
and Human Services and Seema Verma as CMS Administrator. They can 
startstabilizing the health insurance markets that ObamaCare has thrown 
into turmoil, and they can start bringing relief to theAmerican people. 
There is a lot they can do.
  There is lot we can do. We may not be responsible for ObamaCare and 
the harm ithas done to so many, but we have been clear about our 
commitment to bringing relief from it. From skyrocketing premiums 
anddeductibles to dwindling options on the exchanges, too many families 
don't know how they will continue to endure theconsequences associated 
with ObamaCare. These families have called for a helping hand. They 
have called for Congress to listento their concerns, and they have 
called for us to finally build a bridge away from ObamaCare and toward 
health policies that putthem first. We just took a decisive step toward 
that goal last night.
  Repealing and replacing ObamaCare is a big challenge.It isn't going 
to be easy. Nonetheless, we are committed to fulfilling our promise to 
the American people--and we will.

                          ____________________



