

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S276-S280]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 27

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names ofthe Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown), the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren), and the Senator 
from Connecticut(Mr. Murphy) were added as cosponsors of S. 27, a bill 
to establish an independent commission to examine and report on 
thefacts regarding the extent of Russian official and unofficial cyber 
operations and other attempts to interfere in the 2016

[[Page S277]]

United States national election, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 69

  At the request of Mr.Roberts, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of S. 69, a bill to codify 
andmodify regulatory requirements of Federal agencies.


                                 S. 82

  At the request of Mr. Reed,the name of the Senator from Maryland (Mr. 
Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 82, a bill to amend the 
InternalRevenue Code of 1986 to expand the denial of deduction for 
certain excessive employee remuneration, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 86

  At the request of Mr. McCain, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr.Cassidy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 86, a bill to amend the 
Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 tomodify the 
termination date for the Veterans Choice Program.


                                 S. 87

  At the request of Mr.Toomey, the names of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Mr. Hoeven), the Senator from Texas (Mr. Cornyn), theSenator 
from Kansas (Mr. Roberts), the Senator from Montana (Mr. Daines), the 
Senator from Louisiana (Mr.Cassidy), the Senator from Kentucky (Mr. 
Paul), the Senator from Idaho (Mr. Risch), the Senator from Wyoming(Mr. 
Barrasso), and the Senator from Idaho (Mr. Crapo) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 87, a bill to ensure thatState and local law 
enforcement may cooperate with Federal officials to protect our 
communities from violent criminals andsuspected terrorists who are 
illegally present in the United States.


                              S.J. RES. 1

  At therequest of Mr. Boozman, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res.1, a joint 
resolution approving the location of a memorial to commemorate and 
honor the members of the Armed Forces who servedon active duty in 
support of Operation Desert Storm or Operation Desert Shield.


                               S. RES. 6

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the names of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Thune) and the Senator from Montana(Mr. Tester) were added 
as cosponsors of S. Res. 6, a resolution objecting to United Nations 
Security Council Resolution2334 and to all efforts that undermine 
direct negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians for a secure 
and peacefulsettlement.


                               S. RES. 10

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the names of the Senator fromNew 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen), the Senator from Maine (Mr. King), and the 
Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr.Toomey) were added as cosponsors of S. 
Res. 10, a resolution expressing the sense of the Senate regarding the 
traffickingof illicit fentanyl into the United States from Mexico and 
China.


                               S. RES. 11

  At therequest of Mr. Scott, the name of the Senator from California 
(Ms. Harris) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 11, aresolution 
encouraging the development of best business practices to fully utilize 
the potential of the United States.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 2

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the name of the Senator fromWisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 2 intended to 
be proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, aconcurrent resolution setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and settingforth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 
2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 9

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) was added as a cosponsorof amendment No. 9 
intended to be proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolution 
setting forth the congressional budget forthe United States Government 
for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2018through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 13

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the names of theSenator from Maryland 
(Mr. Cardin), the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Wyden), the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs.Shaheen), the Senator from Illinois (Mr. Durbin), and 
the Senator from Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) were added ascosponsors of 
amendment No. 13 proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolution 
setting forth the congressional budget forthe United States Government 
for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2018through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 17

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the name of theSenator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 17 intended to 
be proposed to S. Con. Res. 3,a concurrent resolution setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and settingforth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 
2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 21

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren), the Senator fromVirginia (Mr. Kaine), the 
Senator from New Mexico (Mr. Udall), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. 
Klobuchar), theSenator from Maryland (Mr. Cardin), the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin), and the Senator from Delaware (Mr.Coons) were 
added as cosponsors of amendment No. 21 intended to be proposed to S. 
Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolutionsetting forth the congressional 
budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and 
setting forth the appropriatebudgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 
through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 24

  At the request ofMr. Franken, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 24 intended tobe 
proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolution setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Governmentfor fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 25

  At the request of Mr. Franken, the name of the Senator from Ohio 
(Mr.Brown) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 25 intended to be 
proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolutionsetting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriatebudgetary levels for fiscal years 
2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 27

  At the request ofMr. Coons, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 
27intended to be proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolution 
setting forth the congressional budget for the United StatesGovernment 
for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 28

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the name of the Senator from 
NewHampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 
28 intended to be proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, aconcurrent resolution 
setting forth the congressional budget for the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2017 and settingforth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 29

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr.Carper) and the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) were added 
as cosponsors of amendment No. 29 intended to beproposed to S. Con. 
Res. 3, a concurrent resolution setting forth the congressional budget 
for the United States Government forfiscal year 2017 and setting forth 
the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 30

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs.Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 30 
intended to be proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, a concurrent 
resolutionsetting forth the congressional budget for the United States 
Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriatebudgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 34

  At the request ofMrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Warner) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 34intended to be 
proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, a concurrent

[[Page S278]]

resolution setting forth the congressional budget for the UnitedStates 
Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate 
budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 36

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator 
fromWashington (Mrs. Murray) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 
36 intended to be proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, aconcurrent resolution 
setting forth the congressional budget for the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2017 and settingforth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 37

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from 
Washington (Mrs. Murray) was added as a cosponsorof amendment No. 37 
intended to be proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolution 
setting forth the congressional budgetfor the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2018through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 53

  At the request of Mr. Franken, the name of theSenator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 53 intended to be 
proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, aconcurrent resolution setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and settingforth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 
2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 54

  At the request of Mr. Franken, the names of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) and the Senator fromVirginia (Mr. Warner) were 
added as cosponsors of amendment No. 54 intended to be proposed to S. 
Con. Res. 3, a concurrentresolution setting forth the congressional 
budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and 
setting forth theappropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 
through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 55

  At therequest of Mr. Booker, the names of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Carper) and the Senator from Minnesota (Mr.Franken) were added as 
cosponsors of amendment No. 55 intended to be proposed to S. Con. Res. 
3, a concurrent resolutionsetting forth the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriatebudgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 61

  At the request ofMr. Casey, the names of the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
Wyden), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar), theSenator from 
Delaware (Mr. Coons), the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen), the 
Senator from Virginia (Mr.Warner), the Senator from Delaware (Mr. 
Carper), the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren), and the 
Senatorfrom Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) were added as cosponsors of 
amendment No. 61 proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, a concurrentresolution 
setting forth the congressional budget for the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth theappropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 62

  At therequest of Mrs. Gillibrand, her name was withdrawn as a 
cosponsor of amendment No. 62 intended to be proposed to S. Con.Res. 3, 
a concurrent resolution setting forth the congressional budget for the 
United States Government for fiscal year 2017 andsetting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENTNO. 63

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) and the Senatorfrom Florida (Mr. Nelson) 
were added as cosponsors of amendment No. 63 proposed to S. Con. Res. 
3, a concurrent resolutionsetting forth the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriatebudgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 64

  At the request ofMr. Manchin, the names of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden), the Senator from New York (Mrs. Gillibrand),and the 
Senator from New Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) were added as cosponsors of 
amendment No. 64 proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, aconcurrent resolution 
setting forth the congressional budget for the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2017 and settingforth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 68

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen), the Senator fromMassachusetts (Ms. Warren), and the 
Senator from Vermont (Mr. Leahy) were added as cosponsors of amendment 
No. 68intended to be proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, a concurrent 
resolution setting forth the congressional budget for the United 
StatesGovernment for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate 
budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 69

  At the request of Mr. Bennet, the names of the Senator fromMaryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) were 
added as cosponsors of amendmentNo. 69 intended to be proposed to S. 
Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolution setting forth the congressional 
budget for the UnitedStates Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting 
forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 
2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 70

  At the request of Mr. Bennet, the names of the Senator fromMaryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) were 
added as cosponsors of amendmentNo. 70 intended to be proposed to S. 
Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolution setting forth the congressional 
budget for the UnitedStates Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting 
forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 
2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 74

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator 
fromPennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 
74 intended to be proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, aconcurrent resolution 
setting forth the congressional budget for the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2017 and settingforth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 76

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the names of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) and the Senator from Massachusetts(Ms. Warren) were added as 
cosponsors of amendment No. 76 intended to be proposed to S. Con. Res. 
3, a concurrentresolution setting forth the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth 
theappropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 77

  At therequest of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of amendmentNo. 77 
intended to be proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolution 
setting forth the congressional budget for the UnitedStates Government 
for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 78

  At the request ofMr. Durbin, the names of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen), the Senator from Illinois (Ms.Duckworth), the Senator 
from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren), the Senator from Washington (Mrs. 
Murray), theSenator from Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) and the Senator 
from Minnesota (Mr. Franken) were added as cosponsors ofamendment No. 
78 intended to be proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolution 
setting forth the congressional budget forthe United States Government 
for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2018through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 79

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the names of theSenator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown), the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen), the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms.Warren) and the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. 
Blumenthal) were added as cosponsors of amendment No. 79 intended tobe 
proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolution setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Governmentfor fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 80

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the names of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.

[[Page S279]]

Brown), the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen), the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren), theSenator from Connecticut (Mr. 
Blumenthal) and the Senator from Virginia (Mr. Warner) were added as 
cosponsors ofamendment No. 80 intended to be proposed to S. Con. Res. 
3, a concurrent resolution setting forth the congressional budget 
forthe United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth 
the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 81

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the names of theSenator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar), the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Wyden), the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms.Warren), the Senator from New York (Mrs. Gillibrand), 
the Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen), theSenator from Delaware 
(Mr. Carper), the Senator from Washington (Mrs. Murray) and the Senator 
from Vermont (Mr.Leahy) were added as cosponsors of amendment No. 81 
proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolution setting forth 
thecongressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal 
year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levelsfor fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 82

  At the request of Mrs.Gillibrand, the names of the Senator from 
Oregon (Mr. Wyden), the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Whitehouse),the 
Senator from Delaware (Mr. Coons), the Senator from Wisconsin (Ms. 
Baldwin), the Senator from Virginia (Mr.Warner), the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren), the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen), 
the Senatorfrom Vermont (Mr. Leahy), the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. 
Booker), the Senator from Minnesota (Mr. Franken),the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey), the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. Murphy), 
the Senator from Maine (Mr.King) and the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. 
Reed) were added as cosponsors of amendment No. 82 proposed to S. 
Con.Res. 3, a concurrent resolution setting forth the congressional 
budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 andsetting 
forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 
2026.


                            AMENDMENTNO. 83

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) and the Senatorfrom Oregon (Mr. Merkley) 
were added as cosponsors of amendment No. 83 proposed to S. Con. Res. 
3, a concurrent resolutionsetting forth the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriatebudgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 84

  At the request ofMr. Durbin, the names of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen), the Senator from Illinois (Ms.Duckworth), the Senator 
from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren), the Senator from Washington (Mrs. 
Murray), theSenator from Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) and the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) were added as cosponsors ofamendment No. 
84 intended to be proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolution 
setting forth the congressional budget forthe United States Government 
for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2018through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 86

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the names of theSenator from Vermont 
(Mr. Leahy), the Senator from Washington (Mrs. Murray), the Senator 
from Connecticut (Mr.Murphy), the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Wyden), the 
Senator from Colorado (Mr. Bennet), the Senator from NewJersey (Mr. 
Menendez), the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen), the Senator from 
Delaware (Mr. Coons), theSenator from New Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen), the 
Senator from New Mexico (Mr. Heinrich), the Senator fromMassachusetts 
(Mr. Markey), the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. Hirono), the Senator from 
Virginia (Mr. Warner), theSenator from West Virginia (Mr. Manchin), the 
Senator from New York (Mr. Schumer), the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr.Kaine), the Senator from Washington (Ms. Cantwell), the Senator 
from Michigan (Mr. Peters), the Senator fromMinnesota (Ms. Klobuchar), 
the Senator from Minnesota (Mr. Franken), the Senator from Vermont (Mr. 
Sanders),the Senator from Florida (Mr. Nelson), the Senator from Hawaii 
(Mr. Schatz) and the Senator from California (Mrs.Feinstein) were added 
as cosponsors of amendment No. 86 proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, a 
concurrent resolution setting forththe congressional budget for the 
United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetarylevels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 89

  At the request of Mr.Carper, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 89 intended tobe 
proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolution setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Governmentfor fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 90

  At the request of Mr. Carper, the names of the Senator from Ohio 
(Mr.Brown) and the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) were added 
as cosponsors of amendment No. 90 intended to beproposed to S. Con. 
Res. 3, a concurrent resolution setting forth the congressional budget 
for the United States Government forfiscal year 2017 and setting forth 
the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 91

  At the request of Ms. Stabenow, the names of the Senator from 
Maryland (Mr. VanHollen) and the Senator from Maine (Mr. King) were 
added as cosponsors of amendment No. 91 intended to be proposed toS. 
Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolution setting forth the congressional 
budget for the United States Government for fiscal year2017 and setting 
forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 
2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 92

  At the request of Ms. Stabenow, the names of the Senator from 
Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen) andthe Senator from Maine (Mr. King) were 
added as cosponsors of amendment No. 92 intended to be proposed to S. 
Con. Res. 3,a concurrent resolution setting forth the congressional 
budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and 
settingforth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 
through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 93

  At the request of Ms. Stabenow, the names of the Senator from 
Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen) and the Senator fromMassachusetts (Ms. 
Warren) were added as cosponsors of amendment No. 93 intended to be 
proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, aconcurrent resolution setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and settingforth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 
2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 94

  At the request of Ms. Stabenow, the names of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr.Wyden), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar), the Senator 
from Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen), the Senatorfrom Massachusetts (Ms. 
Warren), the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Booker), the Senator from 
Maine (Mr. King),the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Coons), the Senator 
from Washington (Mrs. Murray) and the Senator from New York 
(Mrs.Gillibrand) were added as cosponsors of amendment No. 94 proposed 
to S. Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolution setting forththe 
congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetarylevels for fiscal years 
2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 95

  At the request of Mr.Markey, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 95 intendedto be 
proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolution setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United StatesGovernment for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 96

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator fromMaryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 96 intended 
to be proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, aconcurrent resolution setting forth 
the congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal 
year 2017

[[Page S280]]

andsetting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 
through 2026.


                            AMENDMENTNO. 97

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Mr. Franken) was added as acosponsor of amendment No. 97 
intended to be proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolution 
setting forth the congressionalbudget for the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years2018 through 2026.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 100

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the names ofthe Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar), the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren), 
the Senator from Maine (Mr.King), the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Van 
Hollen) and the Senator from Virginia (Mr. Warner) were added 
ascosponsors of amendment No. 100 intended to be proposed to S. Con. 
Res. 3, a concurrent resolution setting forth thecongressional budget 
for the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth 
the appropriate budgetary levelsfor fiscal years 2018 through 2026.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 101

  At the request of Mr.Bennet, the names of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) and the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Portman) wereadded as 
cosponsors of amendment No. 101 intended to be proposed to S. Con. Res. 
3, a concurrent resolution setting forth thecongressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levelsfor fiscal years 2018 through 2026.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 102

  At the request of Mr.Bennet, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 102intended 
to be proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolution setting forth 
the congressional budget for the United StatesGovernment for fiscal 
year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 103

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the names of the Senator 
fromConnecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) and the Senator from Wisconsin (Ms. 
Baldwin) were added as cosponsors of amendment No.103 intended to be 
proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolution setting forth the 
congressional budget for the UnitedStates Government for fiscal year 
2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal 
years 2018 through 2026.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 104

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the names of the Senator 
fromConnecticut (Mr. Blumenthal), the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Brown), 
the Senator from Vermont (Mr. Leahy) and theSenator from Wisconsin (Ms. 
Baldwin) were added as cosponsors of amendment No. 104 proposed to S. 
Con. Res. 3, aconcurrent resolution setting forth the congressional 
budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and 
settingforth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 
through 2026.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 105

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the names of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal), the Senator fromVermont (Mr. Leahy) and 
the Senator from Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) were added as cosponsors of 
amendment No. 105intended to be proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, a 
concurrent resolution setting forth the congressional budget for the 
United StatesGovernment for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 109

  At the request of Mr. Udall, the names of the Senator fromOregon (Mr. 
Wyden) and the Senator from Washington (Mrs. Murray) were added as 
cosponsors of amendment No. 109intended to be proposed to S. Con. Res. 
3, a concurrent resolution setting forth the congressional budget for 
the United StatesGovernment for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026.

                          ____________________



