

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 42 (Friday, March 10, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 42 (Friday, March 10, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2045]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    MORE HEALTH OPTIONS FOR FAMILIES

  (Mr. LaMALFA asked and was given permission to address the House for 
1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. LaMALFA. Mr. Speaker, we see more and more that ObamaCare or the 
Affordable Care Act is, indeed, unsustainable.
  Today I rise, once again, to share another story or two about some of 
the highlights that some of my constituents are feeling back at home.
  Last night, I hosted a telephone townhall to have an opportunity to 
hear from people in my district, once again, about some of the 
unsustainable, horrible stories that they have to tell about the 
experiences they have had with the ACA: sky-high premiums; poor access 
to health care; options that are less and less, especially in rural 
California and rural America; deductibles that have risen so high that 
insurance isn't really affordable for them to use at all.
  Recently a physician within my district contacted my office and said 
that, after more than 30 years of a successful practice with happy 
clients, he is no longer able to provide the type of care his patients 
need due to the overburdensome paperwork requirements. This is 
providing less choices for people, especially the middle-income 
families that have to choose between the things they want to save for 
for their future and for their dreams and now happen to have much 
higher premiums, less choices, and a deductible that makes their 
insurance almost useless to them.
  The American Health Care Act will give back more options for families 
and other Americans that desperately need this help and to meet all the 
goals that we are setting out to do.

                          ____________________



