

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 37 (Thursday, March 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 37 (Thursday, March 2, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H1489]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               ATTORNEY GENERAL JEFF SESSIONS AND RUSSIA

  (Ms. KAPTUR asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.)
  Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I rise today after news that the Attorney 
General, Jeff Sessions, lied under oath about his multiple contacts 
with higher level officials from the Russian Government.
  The American people deserve full answers from the FBI on the ever-
growing list of Trump administration officials with reckless and 
dangerous ties to Russia. The 2016 attack by Russia on U.S. democratic 
institutions, election systems, and political parties represents an 
international crime against liberty.
  We still don't know the full extent of Russia's attacks. Thus, it is 
essential that the FBI, which reports to the Attorney General, be 
absolutely free of any political pressure. Congress must empower an 
independent investigatory, bipartisan commission to discover the truth. 
And the administration must appoint a special prosecutor free of 
political influence by the executive branch.
  Any investigation must be empowered to thoroughly probe Russia's 
actions against our Nation's elections and must unearth any individuals 
who aided and abetted Russia in furtherance of its nefarious 
objectives. Without question, it is essential that our FBI and Justice 
Department be absolutely free of any political influence by the 
Attorney General.
  The American people are owed the truth, the whole truth, and nothing 
but the truth. Toward restoring integrity, the Attorney General should 
resign in view of his misleading answers about Russia during his Senate 
confirmation hearing.
  Truth will out.

                          ____________________



