

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 25 (Monday, February 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 25 (Monday, February 13, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H1117]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                LEGISLATION TO DEREGULATE GUN SILENCERS

  (Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute.)
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, on a warm Sunday morning, yesterday, 
six men in a blue truck and six men in a black truck began shooting 
along Griggs Road. Women and children fled. Families fled in fear of 
their lives. Because of the gunshot noise, police were able to come, 
and those who were hovering and sheltering could dial 911 on their cell 
phones.
  So today I want to join with the law enforcement coalition who are 
working with former Congresswoman Gabby Giffords and Mark Kelly, who 
are standing up against legislation that would deregulate and allow 
civilians to buy silencers.
  It indicates that the gun lobby applauds introduction of the Hearing 
Protection Act. A quote in an article says many gun owners and 
sportsmen suffer severe hearing loss after years of shooting. Yet, the 
tool necessary to reduce such loss is onerously neglected and taxed.
  What about the law enforcement officers who will suffer at the hands 
of those who want to do us harm with silencers on their guns? What will 
happen to those who will be murdered in the streets? What about them 
and their families?
  This is a legislation misdirected. This is a legislation that is 
unfortunate. I join with my fellow Americans and law enforcement 
officers, first responders, in standing up against a nonsensical and 
misdirected initiative.
  Let's stand with those who are to protect us and let's protect our 
families and not support this legislation.

                          ____________________



