

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 37 (Thursday, March 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 37 (Thursday, March 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1545]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     CONGRATULATING SENATOR COCHRAN

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I wish to start by taking a moment to 
recognize our distinguished colleague who just marked an impressive 
milestone in the history of the Senate. Last week, the senior Senator 
from Mississippi became the 10th longest serving Senator in U.S. 
history. With over 38 years of service in this body, Senator Thad 
Cochran has proved himself to be a leader and a statesman.
  When the Magnolia State sent Senator Cochran to the Senate, it was 
the first time a Republican had won a statewide election in Mississippi 
in over a century. When he decided to run, Senator Cochran didn't 
falter in the face of long odds. He campaigned hard, and he won. 
Because of his passionate and dedicated service, the people of 
Mississippi have sent him back time and again.
  Senator Cochran has come a long way from his first job as a carhop at 
Gunn's Dairy Barn near Jackson, MS. Now, he proudly serves the people 
of his State and helps craft legislation for the entire Nation.
  Here in the Senate, we have all had the opportunity to work with 
Senator Cochran. Whether on agricultural issues, responding to national 
disasters, or negotiating appropriations bills, Senator Cochran has 
played a crucial role on many pieces of legislation. As the chairman of 
the Appropriations Committee, he has done important work as well.
  I know that colleagues on both sides can agree that working with him 
is always an enjoyable experience. Senator Cochran has accomplished a 
great deal during his years in the Senate. With a conservative 
philosophy and an affable personality that endears him to both sides of 
the aisle, Senator Cochran has made an important impact.
  A few years ago, Senator Cochran reached another important milestone 
when he cast vote No. 12,000 here in the Senate. At that time, I 
mentioned that Time Magazine included him on the list of America's 
``Top 10 Senators.'' They named him ``The Quiet Persuader.'' We all 
know that Washington is filled with loud voices, but Senator Cochran's 
manner has served our friend and this institution very, very well.
  I ask my colleagues to join me in congratulating Senator Cochran, his 
wife Kay, and his entire family on this notable occasion.

                          ____________________



