

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 55 (Wednesday, March 29, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 55 (Wednesday, March 29, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2096]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

               RECOGNIZING THE STUDENTS OF CLAN OF MOR'DU

 Mr. KING. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize and to 
congratulate the students of the Clan of Mor'Du team for their recent 
State competition victory and their invitation to participate in the 
FIRST LEGO League World Festival.
  As we enter a century of fast-paced innovation where science and 
technology continue to be at the epicenter of our daily lives, it is 
important to promote STEM education so that the next generation of 
engineers and entrepreneurs can fully harness the opportunities these 
new advancements bring to our society. Therefore, it is my honor to 
bring to the attention of the Senate a group of astounding young 
students and their coaches from Spruce Mountain Middle School who have 
stepped up to the plate to accept this challenge.
  These outstanding students compete in the State's rigorous LEGO 
league, where teams must build and program robots made from LEGO NXT 
kits to solve missions. Their dedication to excellence and their 
perseverance against teams from more prominent school districts has 
already lead them to two well-deserved statewide championship 
victories. In honor of their tireless efforts, the Clan of Mor'du have 
been invited to attend the FIRST LEGO League World Festival in St. 
Louis, MO, this spring. For most of these curious young students, it 
will be their first trip outside of Maine.
  I wish to join the communities of Jay, Livermore, and Livermore 
Falls, as well as the State of Maine, in congratulating the Clan of 
Mor'du for their pioneering spirit and remarkable achievements. Their 
willingness to challenge themselves and work together as a team is a 
testament to the tenacity and ingenuity of Maine's great 
people.

                          ____________________



